ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Manuel Gabriel González Ramos, he asked Don JoséCarlos Díaz Rodríguez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u3	He has acquired full status as a Member of Parliament. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to include at nine o'clock tomorrow Wednesday's sitting, as a new item, the appearance of the President of the Government. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u5	It is also suggested that point 24, corresponding to the urgent interpellation of the Joint Parliamentary Group, should be excluded as to the measures to be taken by the Government to minimize the effects that the Russian invasion of Ukraine is having on the various economic sectors of our country, particularly in Navarre. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u6	We begin with the debate to consider the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, amending Law 39/2007 of 19 November of the Military Career, in order to establish a single professional regime for professional military personnel, as well as the Organic Law 5/2005 of 17 November of the National Defence, in order to gradually increase the proportion of gross domestic product destined for the financing of the national defence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the world is changing; the current geopolitical landscape is defined by uncertainty and strategic competition for power. With the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Fukuyama's thesis on the end of history has again been refuted; history has not come to an end. Today, more than ever, Spain has to awaken and establish a budget for the Armed Forces that will enable them to carry out their mission. It is often said, and it is true, that there is a lack of defence culture in Spain. In recent decades, politicians and the media have tried to redefine the role of our Armed Forces towards something like an NGO in uniform a forces always in missions called peace, hiding the real dangers they assume in war zones and diminishing their ability to respond in situations of risk due to a misunderstanding of pacifism. Of course, our soldiers, sailors and airmen will always be there to help in the face of natural or provoked disasters, and of course they help to reduce tension in war zones, but let us not forget their main mission, enshrined in article 8 of the Constitution: to guarantee the sovereignty and independence of Spain, to defend its territorial integrity and the constitutional order. [[Applauds]] This high mission requires sufficient budgetary resources to carry it out with full guarantees, so we ask that, on the eve of the NATO summit to be held in our country, Spain take on the commitment made with our allies and raise up to 2% of the gross domestic product expenditure or investment in defence. In absolute terms, Spain devotes less than 1.1% of its gross domestic product; Spain invests in defence only 258 dollars per capita, a figure that contrasts with the 410 of Italy, 709 of France or 781 of the United Kingdom. According to the Atlantic Alliance, Spain occupies the penultimate place - penultimate, 28 of 29 - of NATO member countries in this area. We only have Luxembourg behind us. Ladies and gentlemen, with a gross domestic product of just over EUR 1 million, Spain should be investing twice as much in defence as is envisaged in the current budget, thus reaching just over EUR 20 billion and being able to meet our international commitments. It would be enough to invest in defence as much as we spend on gender equality policies. [[Applauds]] The benefits of defence investment are multiple and generate a virtuous circle experienced in many countries. Anyone who has known the world of technology tangentially will know that it owes multiple advances to the demand generated by a customer who consumes technology in a regular way, such as the military industry. Miniaturization, space exploration, electronics, telecommunications, satellite use, mobile telephony, the Internet, drones, research in areas such as biomedicine, biology, chemistry and so many others would be much poorer or perhaps there would not even exist in some cases if it were not for its defence application, which would then move to the civil world. Indeed, investing in defense generates virtuous circles, promotes technological advances and increases progress by generating wealth. Within the necessary increase in the defence budget we have to start with a better remuneration for our troops, and that is what the VOX Parliamentary Group is trying to correct today with this initiative, a proposal for a law that establishes a single professional regime for professional military personnel, that settles a debt of justice with those who dedicate the best years of their lives precisely to ensuring our own and that shields our commitment to national defence in the only way possible: with the sufficient financial resources recorded annually in the general budgets of the State. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the excessive temporality of the Armed Forces is not explained by itself, it is a problem caused by politicians. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the PP, you have abandoned them. Twenty-six years have passed since the beginning of the process of professionalization of the Armed Forces and twenty-one years since the end of compulsory military service. Since then, our soldiers have been condemned to an absolutely unfair job insecurity: low wages, much lower than those of the countries in our environment and far below the rest of the administration's workers; systematic indebtedness and the chaining of temporary contracts, and early exit from work until they are dispensed with without just an alternative. Ladies and gentlemen, for a duty of gratitude, for justice, but also for efficiency, we must turn the military career into an attractive option for our young people. I take this opportunity to greet the Union Association of Troop Military, UMT, which is accompanying us today in the Chamber. [[Applauds]] Our national defense requires that we establish a system aimed at attracting, cultivating and retaining talent throughout a professional life. We played a lot on it. That is why VOX registered, in October 2020, a proposal regarding the salary matching of the Armed Forces with State security forces and bodies. In the words of an ancient JEMAD, that a combat pilot wins at least the same as the civilian guard who guards access to the base. That VOX initiative succeeded in passing this House, but unfortunately it has not been carried out, and that is why today we are presenting this bill which, if it goes ahead, would put an end to the unjust situation of precariousness suffered by our soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout the public administration, the general administration of the state, autonomous communities and local authorities, there is no single case of two different laws regulating the same profession. This is precisely what is happening today with our Armed Forces. On the one hand, there are officers and all non-commissioned officers, career soldiers with a stable and permanent service relationship, and, on the other hand, the troop scale, subject to the renewal of their commitment to the limit initially set at 35 years of age and extended thereafter to 45 years. By reaching that age, the military, who have dedicated the best years of their life to Spain, are no longer serving, are no longer worth it. They are soldiers who have served with pride. Many have family burdens, are fully trained and have extensive experience, but at a time of their career as important as this, an absurd bureaucratic design decree that no longer has to take into account their professional value. They are not worth, we are told, and at the same time, they are offered to be integrated into a reserve of special availability in exchange for their and their families complying with a grant of just over 600 euros, 640 to be precise. And the Ministry of Defence is resorting to temporary contracts to cover basic and ordinary needs of our Armed Forces, and that is an unacceptable abuse that cannot be supported on budgetary grounds. The abulia shown by governments of different signs in recent years towards our Armed Forces has a dire consequence: if no one remedys it, 53,000 military personnel, sadly, will go on to thicken the queues of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of age in the Armed Forces is not new, and we are very aware that it is not an easy problem either. It is well known that military life is necessarily shorter than ordinary work, even for the cadres of command. Not in vain, the licensing of veterans has historically been the main problem of professional armies. It is therefore appropriate to encourage a certain voluntary drainage of the contingent to help maintain a reasonable average age for service in units, but it is also necessary to find ways to retain those who, while serving satisfactorily, wish to remain in positions, destinations and conditions of service more suitable for their age, preparation and experience. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, this has not been done. Conversely, the system has made temporality an essential, intrinsic, almost structural feature of the defence model. In the face of the foolishness of 35-year-old graduates, the PSOE government thought: so let's postpone ten years - kick forward - and let's leave it in 45. But that only meant postponing ten years more the effects of a staff regime that was simply ill-founded. Therefore, the present proposal for a law is intended to repeal Law 8/2006 and establish a common regime for the categories - official, non-official, troop and navy - with the criterion that the service relationship of all professional military personnel is substantially the same and is regulated by the same law. For the entrance of soldiers and sailors is established a single temporary commitment of three years, a stage of training and professional practice aimed at obtaining the title of middle-level technician through a methodology of dual vocational training. Upon completion of the conditions, a permanent service relationship identical to that of the command tables would be accessed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. We cannot deny the financial cost that the alternative we present today entails, but it is a duty of justice, it is a duty of gratitude to those who play their lives for us and, above all, it represents an imperative necessity. We have armed forces that enjoy enormous internationally endorsed prestige and forged mission-to-mission worldwide. That is why we need to adopt this bill today, but it is despite, and not because of the budgetary effort to provide them with the means they deserve. For too long, too much, the lack of means has condemned our military to have to carry out their activities in a precarious way, and that is a threat to their life and to ours. Serving Spain, honoring it, defending it with one's own life if necessary, is the vocation of those who voluntarily decide to join our Armed Forces. They carry out a great public service, a service that transcends them, and with it they guarantee to their compatriots peace, security and ultimately freedom. The Spaniards owe them a lot. Many of them, more than a hundred in recent years, have even given their lives for Spain and for all of us. We remember them every year on the Day of Hispanicity and in castrense acts: For the country to die was their destiny, / to love Spain, their eternal passion, / to serve in the armies, their vocation and otherwise. / They didn't want to serve another Flag, / they didn't want to walk another way, / they didn't know how to die otherwise. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can treat them differently and it is the best tribute that we can offer to our military from this House. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u8	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A greeting for those who distinguish us with their presence in the guest gallery. It is proposed to take into consideration a proposal for a law that is absolutely priority after the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops, which has led to the sudden awakening of society and the governments of many countries, uniquely European, to strengthen defensive resources. Except for specific issues, such as the unresolved case of the great difficulties in joining the working life of the marines and troops, who have to leave the body at the age of 45 at that age, as has just been recalled, it has been unusual for plenary debates on defence, apart from the annual budgetary procedure of section 14. However, the criminal action perpetrated by the Russian Federation, presided over by Vladimir Putin, on a neighbouring country makes it peremptory to correct our low profile, it would be said that underground, in matters of defence, both for the sake of freedom and the protection of human rights and to guarantee security. Ladies and gentlemen, the shock following the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, the challenging threats of the use of nuclear weapons, the staggering geopolitical scenario resulting from a war of uncertain evolution, the bouncing effect of massive economic sanctions, the blocking of markets, the disruption of supplies or energy impacts, among other factors, have disrupted the peace we have enjoyed. We are facing a new situation that is going to sweep our model of life for a long time, years. It's not time for disguises. Today, in Spain and Europe, we suffer an economy of war because Spain and Europe are not alienated from the war in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are late and in the process of rebuking other homologous countries, hence the success of the VOX Parliamentary Group when it was anticipated a year ago by recording this initiative, which, among other things, proposes to increase progressively the proportion of gross domestic product destined for the financing of our national defence. Very likely in the next few minutes we will hear disqualifications from other spokespersons towards this measure, but the immediate international precedents accredit as never in previous decades the need to apply extraordinary appropriations for national defence, at the risk of being isolated. This is a question of survival in the face of the potential present and future risk of Spain being immersed in a war conflict. Take as a reference the decisions that the European Council has been taking since the Russian troops began the invasion last 24 February; a striking case is the funding from the so-called European Peace Support Fund to equip the Ukrainian Armed Forces with lethal weapons and reinforcement equipment, both to maintain the territorial integrity and sovereignty of that country and to protect the civilian population from indiscriminate and heinous military aggression. A Spanishman, Josep Borrell, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, also Vice-President of the European Commission, has been explaining the need to get in touch with each other. The whole world is in danger, it has been one of its most recent and devastating warnings. Ladies and gentlemen, different governments have already rushed to adopt measures to strengthen their own defence. Paradigmatic is the case of Germany, whose new chancellor, Olaf Scholz, urgently called the Bundestag in a Sunday session to compromise the investment in the same year 2022 of 100 billion euros nothing less and an annual spending commitment equivalent to 2% of its GDP from the next fiscal year. Spain is very far from these figures, with public accounts approved here three months ago which provide for a total of 10 156 million euros for the Ministry of Defence as a whole. Our military spending, increased by 7% for the current fiscal year, is in line with the commitments made with the allied countries in accordance with our accession to the NATO military alliance, promoted by a UCD government, chaired in 1981 by Leopoldo Calvo-Sotelo, and whose integration was ratified by decision of the Spanish people after a consultative referendum held in mid-March 1986, at the request of the socialist executive presided by Felipe González. Faced with the necessary and indispensable redesign of defence policy, based on a law adopted in 2005 without consensus, there is a disturbing issue for Spain: the government of the communist social coalition is divided; members of the government have disagreed with the decision to send combat material to Ukraine and, for our external discredit, several anti-NATO ministers sit in the blue bank, which, without any doubt, weakens national interests in these dark moments of history. [[Applauds]] Perhaps that explains in part why President Pedro Sánchez has been relegated from very important talks among world leaders to the thread of the terrible invasion perpetrated by Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law, well explained by Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, represents an irrevocable opportunity to make legislative progress in a fundamental matter, defence policy, which today is a priority on the agendas of governments all over the world, without it being understood as bellicose anxieties, although, given the drift of this XIV Legislature, I am of course of course saying that the majority supporting the Government will not support this parliamentary initiative. Nor do the terrifying parts of the war situation, with the devastation of cities, infrastructure and socio-health facilities, the death of thousands of people without distinction of age or conditions and the enormity of the humanitarian tragedy, which has poured over three and a half million refugees on the European Union, seem to change our Government's wavering attitude beyond timid and shameful declarations of intent by the fact that the rallies of the Churches, Barras, Monteros and the company award credentials of atlantist rage and war parties to whom, without hesitation, we consider it urgent to redefine and progressively increase the proportion of GDP destined for the financing of our national defence, as well as an improvement in the remuneration of our military with which to put an end to their precariousness.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u10	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will vote in favour of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u12	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u13	Mr. President, thank you. I will intervene from the seat very briefly because we don't have time to lose him in Castrian dreams with decorated Reconquista speeches. It brings VOX a proposal that is not new; it is not new because others have also tried this issue in this House and failed. They failed because what they say is not to give an answer is not to give the answer they want, because the answer to this problem has already been given, and it was given in a Sub-Commission that dealt with this issue precisely. The Sub-Commission drew some conclusions, some work was done, it spent some time working on it and, of course, it is not the answer that VOX or other groups that tried to bring this about. So the answer is, but it's another one. Furthermore, it seems to us that this Sub-Commission has sufficient authority to ensure that the work done there is taken into consideration, which is what is currently being dealt with in terms of defence and troop and navy policies. They were not then, but there were others who were working on the matter. Moreover, the proposed law they bring is ungovernable, that is, totally contrary to the criteria that are precisely required in a professional Armed Forces such as those that some so eagerly want to be the ones that work. Obviously, we are going to vote against it, as it could not be otherwise. There is one final point, the one about the increase in military spending, which we are going to be able to discuss, of course, but this law is not the place for it. When the general budgets are discussed, there will be time to see what to devote or not to that expenditure, but not to morning in this law, as if they were two things equal when it has nothing to do with each other. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u15	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on this proposal for a law, I would like to pay a special tribute to all the men and women of our Armed Forces, who from the north and east of our European borders are defending Europe's airspace, land and sea against the threat of the Putin autocrat. To them and their families, who surely look forward and concerned for their return, the full consideration, affection and gratitude of my parliamentary group, Citizens, for their surrender and service to Spain. And many thanks also to the associations that are present here today of troops and navy. Ladies and gentlemen, all the soldiers and sailors are listening to you today, and not all of them are interested in this bill, but they are interested in most of our Armed Forces and that majority is made up of the scale of troops and seamen. It is not the first time in this legislature that we speak of them, it is true, neither of them nor of the infamous Law 8/2006, of Troop and Marinery, nor of Law 39/2007, of the Military Race. We've talked a lot, yes, but we haven't solved anything. Does this ring a bell, ladies? It is the conclusion of an empty legislature of content, a legislature of gestures and posture, to govern behind the backs of society, now behind the backs of farmers, transporters or rural people, but, before this, behind the backs of the forces and security forces of the State, of the prison officials, of the elderly and of the sick of ELA and their families; behind the backs of the autonomous, lords of the Socialist Party, of the middle classes; behind the backs of the most vulnerable, of the victims of terrorism, of those who have occupied their homes. You have ruled even behind the backs of the migrants themselves. Today I fear they will turn their backs on our Armed Forces, our men and women of troops and navy, as they have been doing since 2006. And what about your United Nations partners we can say! You are also complicit, ladies and gentlemen, in all this abandonment. For a few chairs of ministers and ministers they have turned their backs on everything they once defended; they have turned against those who promised to defend: the weak, the precarious, the workers and the most disadvantaged classes, and today they are going to do it again. Former JEMAD, Julio Rodríguez, long ago defended the need to repeal the Troop and Marinery Act and a single military career law. Today you will again feel the shame of voting against the most precarious of all our Armed Forces: your soldiers and sailors, in favor of the reservist's garbage contract of special availability and against stable employment. But, yes, they will continue to keep their chairs of ministers and ministers. Today it is no longer worth pointing out the arguments in favour of such necessary reforms. We have already exposed them innumerable times and they have served no purpose. I would like to re-emphasize the precarious nature of a mileurist wage, the discrimination and the temporality of being dismissed by a mere biological issue at the age of 45, and the impact of a law which will leave more than 53 000 men and women until 2037, and which, as we have already shown in this rostrum, will cost all Spaniards more than €90 billion. For what? Not at all. Ruin for those 53,000 families and ruin for the public arks, which, as another eminent socialist minister says, are nobody's. Nor is it worth looking for past or present culprits. It is true that the PP did nothing to change this law. True, while they ruled, they did nothing to fulfill it either. They did not approve qualifications, did not facilitate entry into the labour market, did not favour the formation of troops and navy. They won't do it today either. They will not because, as they always say they have occasion, they agree that there can be no soldiers and sailors over 45 years old. Therefore, today it is no longer worth appealing to reason, to arguments or to injustices. Nor to tradition, to the homeland, to the castrense values, to the companionship of those who keep your back or watch your dream while another comrade rests. Nitan is even worth the example of those who, despite the risk, gave the best of themselves to help us all, of those who, in the worst days of the pandemic, again put the fulfilment of the mission ahead of their fears and those of their families. It is no longer worth helping in Filomena, the island of La Palma or in Operation Balmis, because today everything has changed, ladies and gentlemen. Today, Ukrainian men and women with no age limit defend our values thousands of miles from here. They defend our democratic values, our international legitimacy, the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. They defend democracy, but they also defend ours. They defend their territorial integrity and independence in order to decide who their allies are, but also that of all Europeans. They defend, at last, their wealth and the dignity of their lives, but they also defend ours. And in this convulsive situation that everything changes, Ukrainian soldiers - and civil society with them - fight and die for defending us all, without age limits, ladies and gentlemen, without limits of anything, because there is no option of life that is possible but victory in their case. And very close to them, more than 1000 Spanish soldiers and sailors guard and protect the borders of the European Union. Do you know that if one of them turned 45 in the middle of his mission he would be returned to Spain? That they would have to abandon their comrades in the middle of this crisis? That they would have to abandon the Armed Forces, the commitment to the homeland they swore to defend with their lives? His work, his example, his dedication and the merit of his work and effort is no longer the same as yesterday, because today he is 45 years old. If it was illogical when we discussed this very same thing last year, today is decidedly absurd, ladies and gentlemen. In the greatest security crisis of our entire democracy, in the face of the threat of a global conflict, we will not be able today to offer guarantees and solutions to those who wait to play their life by defending our values and integrity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, they cannot today, they must not rely on empty excuses. Today the decision is not to vote on a proposal from one parliamentary group or another. Today this vote will show whether or not you are really with our soldiers. In the current situation of war on our southern European borders, with a trap like Putin threatening our democracies and our security, our soldiers can and must receive a message. They're not worth the words anymore, that's what they're tired of. Today's only worth the facts, ladies and gentlemen. With them or against them. That is today's debate. My group, the Spanish Liberals, we have it as clear as we have always had it: with them. We will be with them, in favor of repealing the Troop and Marinery Act, and of a military career law for all and for all. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, they cannot vote otherwise. There will be time to amend the obvious errors of this proposal, but if with your vote you do not allow it to be dealt with, you will be sending a demolishing message at the worst possible time. There are no excuses today, it is now that our soldiers must feel their support, our support, the support of all, ladies and gentlemen. Don't let them down again, please. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u16	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. On 15 March, the President of the Government announced his intention to increase the defence budget to 2% of GDP to meet the NATO mandate. Today VOX comes here to reinforce that same idea, curious coincidence. The question is that this would increase defence resources by more than EUR 13 billion, and the problem is that, as resources are finite, this would necessarily reduce what is allocated to social or economic policies. Even more serious if we take into account that the actual military expenditure - if we follow the data of the rigorous analysis of the Center Delàs of Studies for Peace - exceeds 22 billion euros if we add the program of purchase of armaments, military R & D+i, etc., almost three times what the State dedicates to education and health together or five times what is destined to minimum income, to social aid. I am not going to address the ultra ladies and gentlemen, fascinated by the redhead and the military look all around the country, I am going to address the Members of the government parties, the PSOE and also of Podemos, who can stop this: do you think that with the scenario of enormous social and economic difficulties where we are the priority can be to increase military spending instead of allocating those resources to policies of social protection, promotion and improvement of public services, economic development, access to housing, environmental care or job creation? Priorities, ladies and gentlemen. Because, moreover, you must not forget that if the party of a government that claims to be left-wing does the same policies that the right-wing would do, they are opening the door to that ultra-right that comes here today to reinforce, as I said, the announcement of the president of the government. Not that way, Mr. Sanchez, not that way. You, who too often and too lightly accuse others of this, when from the left of sovereignism we criticize their policies, are primarily responsible for feeding the right-wing populism with the discontent and disappointment generated by the policies and their violations, especially, as in this case, for assuming the political agenda that the right-wing...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u18	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u19	They can and should be rectified. Less NATO, less military spending and more social policies. Thank you. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Demagogue!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u20	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. VOX is presenting us today with a bill, and I am particularly interested in two articles and a transitional provision. The amendment to the second article of the Defence Act states that the Government will allocate a minimum of 2% of GDP to national defence; I would like to see VOX allocate that to other things, to R & D+i or to education, in short, to social things. And then, in the fourth transitional provision, it says that the budgetary impact will apply next year, more or less; that is, that next year will already apply it. Has VOX quantified the budgetary impact of this? Yeah? How much? [[Several Members: Yes]] If we increase defense spending, where do we get it? Shall we take him out of education? Shall we take him out of his sanity? Do we take him out of social services? Do we remove it from R+D+i? Do we take it out of self-help? Do we take it out of business aid? Do we remove it from the aid to farmers and farmers? [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] Well, then, tell me how this is done without cutting. Because you don't want to raise taxes, you still have to lower taxes. Listen, or one thing or another. Shall we remove it from the chiringuitos? [[Several Members: Yes]] Let's see when you remove the Toni Singing Chiringuit already having a Cervantes Institute, you who speak so much of duplicity, there is no greater duplicity than that and you keep it. Do we remove it from the political parties? Start by setting an example, return the 10 million euros that VOX receives every year. [[Rumors]] You're making a deceptive proposal to get along with the military of troops and navy. You have voted against raising the interprofessional minimum wage to a thousand euros, I see that you care very little about workers, whether military or non-military. They have voted against raising pensions under the CPI. They voted against lowering VAT on light. I mean, you want to increase spending by lowering taxes, what taxes? All the people? The electrics too? Banks too? The IBEX guys too, those guys we lower taxes on, too? Look, what can't be can't be and, besides, it's impossible. You can't be both things at once, you can't repeat and be at Mass, by using religious terms that you like so much. If you increase the budget, who pays that increase in the budget? Mr. Spiny? The Moorish Captain or the Christian Captain of Alcoy? Who pays for it? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Did we all pay for it? With what? Cutting it out somewhere else. Therefore, I would ask you for a bit of seriousness before presenting these proposals trap to get well with the people of troops and navy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u22	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the extreme right-wing group of the House brings us a proposal for a law on troops and seamen and the increase in the defence budget. Again, a PL that talks about the army and money for the army; nothing new under the sun, are very little original, the truth, very little original. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I am really surprised that in this PL they try, or show that they try, to worry about the situation of the military, about their military career or their situation on the reserve, more than anything, because I do not know whether it refers to all the military or only to those who dance to you the water, and I explain myself. You say that reaching 45 years of service is insufficient and you want to change the law. Okay, you know what? That some or some of these military personnel do not reach that age in action precisely because they are expelled for not dancing the water to certain high commands or for being whistleblowers of corruption, labor or sexual abuse, denunciation of promotion or fascist attitudes within the Armed Forces something that, by the way, is quite common, unfortunately it is quite common in an Armed Forces that should also be called democratic, and there we enter with all the quotes, but good. [[rumors]] To those soldiers, what do you say? What do you say? Is this PL also for them and for them? These cases and practices that I have said are commonplace. I would like to give you some examples and at least ask a couple of questions. How is it possible that a military officer was expelled from the Armed Forces by signing a manifesto? Of course, it's just that if it's an anti-Franco manifesto, it changes here, right? Or how can a military man or woman be expelled for having a physical injury and not being able to carry out his duties? Is it perhaps because there is an interest in not following certain people who have expressed their discontent with some conduct or decisions within the Armed Forces? These are true cases. These are some examples of situations of violation of rights and abuse of power within the Armed Forces. What do they tell these people? Any solution to that? You know what's going on? I believe that these cases matter to you a pepper, they matter to you a pepper and you prefer to get rid of any dissident who threatens you the little chiringuite you have mounted in there, and that really is quite unfortunate and worrying. On the other hand, we find the star theme, or one of the star themes of the afternoon; that is to increase the defence budget to reach 2% of GDP, even more than it already increases every year without counting all the items that end up in Defense by other ministries, which can perfectly double that initial budget. Is that what they wanted? They already have it, if they already have twice as much defense budget, they already have it. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right, it is really indecent that they are asking for more budget for a ministry that already does business with the export of arms to non-democratic countries, and above all I am remarking the non-democratic. I know if it were for you we'd all be here with a kalashnikov in our hand, ready to go fight Ukraine. And not just there, surely you would prefer us to go to Ceuta and Melilla, wouldn't you? They'd also prefer us to go there. This doesn't work that way, ladies and gentlemen, this doesn't work that way. As much as you like pistols or pulls, this doesn't work that way. What they're doing is just taking advantage of the terrible situation we're experiencing from Putin's invasion of Ukraine. By the way, I really advise you to start studying and reading a little more about Modern and Geopolitical History, because maybe you see communists where there are only dictators. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, where do we get the money to give it to the defense? As Mr Baldoví said, do we take it out of health care or take it out of education? I don't know if Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has a corner there for the cause. Of course not, you want to eliminate the Ministry of Equality, which you have said many times. Isn't that right? Isn't that right? [[Rumors]] Ah, then they recognize that they are a sexist party, because that's what they are, a sexist party. If they want to eliminate the Ministry of Equality, they are a sexist party. [[Applauds]] Sure. I tell you one thing: I think you're wrong, I think you're wrong. Just like they're wrong when they point out and attack every person in the LGTB collective. They're wrong there too. Just like they're wrong when they attack anyone who wants to enter the Spanish state and, because it doesn't have its skin color, they consider it to be Bin Laden. They're wrong there too. Like they are wrong when they say that the bull does not suffer, of course it suffers, they are not hypocrites. They're wrong there too. But calm, because everything has a positive note and it is that while you are wrong and wrong, society continues to advance, the working class continues to evolve and when people - because in the end this will happen - pass over you then yes, only VOX will remain. You will remain alone, helpless, decaffeinated and gray, because it is the color that you like, the color of the past. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Fascist Group of the House, you continue to move forward, you continue to be mistaken that the others will work and fight against you and we will move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u23	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Señor Espinosa de los Monteros. First, to raise budgets, you have to pay. Because, of course, you talk a lot about early morning Spain, but the gentlemen also have to pay their debts, because that's how a country rises. [[Applauds]] Go ahead with our support for the workers of the Armed Forces, who perform an important service and work for society. In particular, I want to say that we are aware of the problem of troops and navy. We are aware of the situation in which they are located, we are working and, moreover, we have been repeating this situation for a long time, and we have worked and done things to change it. Today, once again, the extreme right ours is an initiative that there is no place to take it. I mean, you come here and you tell us: raise taxes, we'll come back later and vote against the budgets. How do you eat? We raise the budgets, but you are going to vote against the budgets. Of course, it just doesn't make much sense. This initiative that brings us the far right is nothing but a patch, which mixes ideas from all over. And, in the end, if we passed this bill, we would end up causing greater harm, more problems and more inequality in the field of the Armed Forces. At the same time, this is not a definitive solution of any kind. The problems faced today by the military of troops and navy are caused by the exhaustion of the professional model that describes the current law when the age limits imposed 14 years ago begin to take effect. The real solution to this problem is the creation of a new model and not repeat mistakes of the past, extending the times and letting the problem be filled to find us in the same situation within a few years. I mean, that's what the far right is proposing, kicking the problem. It is no longer useful for them to want to amend this law if they do not also modify the harmful effects generated by the current law. This proposal for a law only comes here to establish new criteria of temporality, that is, to more than the same. In its statement of reasons, it provides: to establish a common system for all categories governed by the same law. Good. However, it continues to design a period of three to six years of temporality for troops and mariners. What are we left with? I mean, we kick the problem. It is not understood that a common system for a professional career is to be established and at the same time the troops and navy are encouraged to leave the Armed Forces. They also bring in measures such as incorporation into other bodies. It's just that you've been doing that for a long time, you could have saved him. It's just that it's been going on for a long time. In fact, there was a subcommission here in which I participated and forty measures are being adopted. Of course it is not enough and of course we have a problem and we have to solve it. Our group has discussed on many occasions the real alternatives relating to troops and navy. See, for example: Increase in places of stay; training in line with the reality of the labour market; creation of a public enterprise. There are a lot of services that are being outsourced in the Ministry of Defence itself and in other ministries. We're already working on that. Of course, the salary increase; a military man pays 1000 euros. Of course we have to do that budget action. By the way, to the People's Party, which will certainly vote in favour of the photo today, I will remind you of what Mr Tarno said, for example - which will no longer be remembered, but I do remember - when we brought some initiative here to resolve the issue of the military. I quote: There are many problems in the troops, but the main one is their aging, the lack of operation of the troops, because we find an aged trumpet that cannot fulfill its functions. For you 45-year-old soldiers are old troops and no longer serve. [[Applauds]] This was said by you here, even though today you come to wash your image and vote in favour of sharing the headline with the ultra-right. We are aware, and I have said so, that in our Armed Forces we have an unresolved problem, which is temporality, and that it leaves 45-year-old soldiers lying there and that it brings them into the situation of indigence at work. This I have told you here many times, and of course we are aware and we are going to work to end it. But, look, we have to work on a lasting solution, without patches, to let the military stop being second-rate citizens, because they deserve it and because we will always be here, but what is not possible is to come today with demagogy, populism and postureum. You cannot mix barbecues with merinas: on the one hand, we raise the budget, that is, we remove from other capacities and, on the other hand, we make a law. You bring everything mixed up here, and in the end, logically, we're going to vote no. So with populism and posture, Mr. Ivan, somewhere else. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u25	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A greeting for the professional associations that accompany us today from the rostrum. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I would like to make two mentions of what you have said. NATO has thirty allies and not twenty-nine; North Macedonia joined in 2020. And the Prayer for the Fallen ends They did not know how to live in another way and they did not know how to die in another way. It was amended in 2004. [[Applauds]] The speech must be updated, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Mr. Delgado, pleased to greet you. Thank you for anticipating our sense of vote, which I did not know, but I will follow your advice. I would ask you to ask Minister Garzon to eliminate your tweet, which refers to NATO as an organization of legal terrorism, forming part of a government of a nation that is part of NATO. [[Applauds]] Ask him, please. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law submitted again by the VOX Parliamentary Group, with the intention of repealing Law 8/2006. And I say again because this motion for a law was introduced, debated and rejected already on 18 May last year, after having debated and rejected a motion resulting from an inquiry by the Citizens' Group, also in September of the previous year. On this occasion, the proposal to incorporate an additional provision into the National Defence Act 5/2005 for the increase of up to 2% of the gross domestic product for the defence budget is added to the same initiative, a proposal which has been frequently cited and raised in this Parliament and which was voted favourably in the Defence Committee last week, with 29 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, on the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group. We are therefore faced with the use of a proposal supported by the majority of the House to justify the adoption of a proposal rejected by the majority of the House, by 277 votes against and 65 in favour on the last of these occasions in May last year, as I said. Do not miss the opportunity, however, to present the point of view of a responsible party, of state and which is an alternative of government, as is the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is necessary to listen to the professionals of the Armed Forces and to those responsible for keeping our Armed Forces online and with operational capacity. They can't be ignored. The professionals responsible for the Armed Forces are against raising the average age of the troops in the lower steps of the defence structure and are also in favour of increasing the defence budget. You have to listen to all things and not just the things that suit you or those that you want to listen to. As I said in May last year and I have no objection to repeating, when these proposals are put forward without any solution to the impact they have on the decline in the operational capacity of the Armed Forces, a weak support for national defence is being made. The current proportion of initial, long-term and permanent military personnel is 15, 70 and 15 per cent, respectively, when Ministry of Defence experts working on this every day recommend moving the quantities to 50, 40 and 10 per cent. We have to work in that direction, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. The structure of our Armed Forces in its three components, Earth Army, Air Army and Navy, is basically the same: headquarters, force and support for force. Strength is the essential element of all three. Already last year I raised the prospect of a battalion of the Earth Army and equated it in measures equal to a ship or a group of Air Forces in the Air Force, and I raised the demand that for service in these units represents the average age of the troops. To disregard these considerations on the impact of these measures on operational capacity is to underestimate the need of the Armed Forces themselves in national defence and to underestimate the physical effort that the performance of their tasks represents. Defence policy is a state policy, does not allow for sudden variations, nor does it allow for brutal reversals in the path that is being carried out. The vulnerabilities of our Armed Forces do not play for the benefit of any political group, they play against all of us. We all have to work for a professionally competitive Armed Forces, as seems to be the purpose of this proposed law, but operationally effective, which this law ignores, because it does not treat it. For me, who have spent a few years in the Armed Forces, it would be infinitely more comfortable to welcome what God wants and to take forward, but it would not be responsible, and a political party that offers the Spaniards an alternative of government cannot position itself in these positions. We must accept fundamentally technical criteria, and I repeat that the experts of the Ministry of Defence must be heard. The decision-making of a people's nature, without any basis other than to satisfy a particular professional sector and without taking into account operational needs, is not responsible. The People's Parliamentary Group registered a non-law proposal, which was rejected, to emphasize the measures contained in Law 8/2006 on the return of the professional troops to civilian life. As Mr Agirretxea and Mr Delgado have already mentioned, a report was drawn up in the Sub-Commission on Defence with forty measures, the last of which entrusted the Military Life Observatory with verifying the implementation of these forty measures in the development and execution of the return of the professional troops to civilian life after the completion of their period of service. These forty observations committed this House and the Ministry of Defence. As I said, the last of them commissioned the Military Life Observatory to verify its implementation and, therefore, our group promoted the return to the reorganization of the Military Life Observatory, which was established in September. On 12 December, we requested the appearance on the Commission for the Defence of the President of the Observatory of Military Life to inform us of his first steps and the work plan he has to know if it coincides with this verification. We still have no answer, which makes us doubt the interpretation that the Government has of the Military Life Observatory included in the Organic Law 9/2011 on the Rights and Duties of Members of the Armed Forces. I would strongly urge the Socialist Group to take an interest in the Military Life Observatory, which is under the control of these General Courts, so that its president would come to report to the Defence Commission. The bulk of the bill is aimed at a largely rejected initiative and we do not think it appropriate to join an initiative that has been largely supported. The solution that you propose, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is not the only one.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u27	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u28	It is no excuse, Mr Gutiérrez, that is what the majority of this House, representing the majority of Spanish society, thinks. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u29	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u30	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by transferring my memory and support to all the soldiers who serve daily in defence of Spain, and especially to those who gave their lives for us. Ladies and gentlemen, the real and substantive issue of the proposed law that we are debating is not new, it is the fifth time that we have discussed and voted on it and it has always been rejected. The enunciation of this bill is a clear example of Goebbels' purest campaigns to which we are accustomed by the far right of this House. Under the subterfuge of requesting an increase in defence investments, we are again presented with the amendment of the Military Career Act. In short, it is a lack of respect for militia professionals. I will say this once to make it clear: it has been only the socialist governments that have raised salaries to the military; it has been the socialist governments that have increased the number of troops with replacement rates of 125%, compared to the reduction of more than 7000 right-wing troops; it has been only the socialist governments that have released credits and increased spending ceilings to increase investments in the defence industry, generating and encouraging the development of technological and industrial bases, as well as encouraging high-quality employment in Spain with a high reversal of that industry in civil society; it has been the socialist governments that have improved the living conditions of the military with conciliation measures or the law on the rights and duties of the military of our Minister Carme Chacon. [[Applauds]] It has been the socialist governments that have increased the defence budgets to meet their needs and, yes, it is a socialist government and its president, Pedro Sánchez, who on three occasions has already made it clear that Spain is committed to NATO and is committed to a progressive increase in defence investments to reach the 2% target set in Wales. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is not the issue that is really being voted on today; there is no vote on an increase in defence investments, ladies and gentlemen. The far right of the defaults in the works - by the way, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, waya papéón!, the gentlemen in democratic Spain also pay -; the far right of the search for destabilization in Spain in time of war; the friends of the tyrant Putin financed by Iran; the right of the falsification of licenses; the macho, racist and xenophobic right that wants to use partisanly our Armed Forces, those of all, is the one that brings us an initiative with a false owner. [[applause]] The real objective of this bill is the elimination of temporality as a characteristic of the scale of troops and seamen. An amendment to the Military Career Act, this is what is really being debated today. The experts have already told us that we cannot have an army whose military base is totally permanent. This would directly undermine national security. Ladies and gentlemen, what the far right does not tell you is that the temporality of the troops of troops and navy is a common characteristic of all the armies of our environment - I repeat, all of them - being the model of the Spanish Army and Marinery Law one of the most innovative. The elimination of temporality would have a direct negative impact on the operation of our Armed Forces, given the aging of the troops, and this, therefore, entails aggression against national security. It is estimated that the extension in the active service of the military from 45 to 56 years, which is what they propose, would mean an increase of approximately five years in the average age from the current 30 to about 40 years or more. I will give you an example in comparison: 32 years in Italy, 40 in Spain; 30 in the United Kingdom, 40 in Spain; 28 in France, 40 in Spain; 27 in the United States, 40 in Spain. That's assaulting national security. In addition, the ultra-right populist does not tell them that the experts warned of the danger of disassociation and disaffection of citizenship with their Armed Forces because they could not access them within a period of at least ten or fifteen years. It is very logical: if all the professional troops of troops and navy are made permanent, if the troops cannot be increased by law and, moreover, by the high technology of the weapons systems the tendency is that the troops of the Armed Forces are becoming smaller and smaller, we have that their children, our children, their daughters and our daughters will not be able to access the Armed Forces in a period of ten to fifteen years. This is contrary to article 30 of the Spanish Constitution, but we already know what the far right is doing with the Constitution. All this with the high economic cost involved, in addition, having a Mastodontic Armed Forces. We are presented with an initiative whose underlying idea is that, according to them, once the military reaches 45 years of age, they are abandoned by the State. It's fake, it's bluntly fake. The State does not abandon any of its troops and navy. Firstly, it should be recalled that those military personnel who reach the age of 45 and are satisfied with the commitment they have voluntarily acquired can access the status of reservists of special availability, receiving a non-contributory monthly allowance compatible with any emolument of other employment in the private sphere and with the social benefit for unemployment, and can also opt for family assistance for the unemployed, a remuneration of EUR 664.36 without getting out of bed. Many of our faculty and teachers in Madrid would already like it! Currently, 4655 reservists of special availability and not thousands and thousands of military personnel are charged for this assignment; 4655 with a 2007 law. Second, most of them are disconnected at their own request, in many cases because they have found other professional outlets in the public or private sector. Currently, thanks to the measures that have been appointed here by the Sub-Commission, in which experts from all the Armed Forces, experts from different ministries and military experts from other armies abroad participated, thanks to these forty measures, the coalition Government has been able to present about four public job offers for each of the special availability reservists. Can you imagine? They run out of work, receive more than 600 euros and, above all, allow them to opt for up to four jobs. Many of our medical practitioners and many of our doctors in Madrid would already like it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is false that no professional army of troops and navy should be abandoned, it is false that our Armed Forces should be abandoned. It has been and is the socialist governments that have been concerned and concerned about our Armed Forces. Do not vote in favour of this bill. Don't vote for it because it's a lie, it's a fallacy. And, yes, the Spanish Government is committed to defence and national security.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u31	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u32	I'm finishing up. 'They didn't want to serve another Flag,/they didn't want to walk another way,/they didn't know how to live otherwise.' Learn it and don't muddle it, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u33	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS AT THE CONVENTION, CITIZENS AND MIXTURES, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANICAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/000189]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u34	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the popular parliamentary groups in the Congress, Citizens and Mixed, the Organic Amendment to the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. For the presentation of the initiative, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we live in troubled times. It is not necessary to remind them of what has changed our life in the pandemic, the economic situation in Spain, the energy crisis that we have been carrying for many months, the price rises and, above all, the invasion of Ukraine, which returns the terrible images of war to our daily lives. But trees can't stop us from seeing the forest and there are deep problems that also tear society apart and that we can't let go without giving them a solution. Today we have among us Juan Carlos Quer and Marisol Burón, as well as Mariano and Manolo, who accompany them. I welcome you all to this Chamber. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Citizens and some of the Mixed, standing, directed towards the guest gallery]] And we sent Antonio del Castillo a strong hug, because he has finally not been able to accompany us as was his wish. These months I have had the opportunity to meet most of them and they will allow me to reveal to them what it has represented to me, because I never imagined my group nor imagined the pain in situations like those experienced and suffered by them, by Marisol, by Juan Carlos. It brought me closer to this Marisol feeling. He said to me, Macarena, I speak to you as a mother from the heart. I wish you never had to live in a situation like this that we've lived, because there's no consolation and the most painful thing for me is that I didn't start mourning for my daughter's murder because I don't have her body to bury him. And I can't ignore the pain of Marta del Castillo's family, who for 13 years has been demanding his killer to tell them where his daughter is - 13 years of indescribable anguish - or the infinite suffering of Juan Carlos Quer and his family until he finds Diana. Of course, I do not want to stop remembering so many cases in the same situation, but, dear Marisol and dear Juan Carlos and Antonio, you did not need to convince the People's Party; we have always been on the side of the victims and the families. As you know, we introduced into the Criminal Code the permanent prison that can be reviewed in 2015 and we remained alone in Parliament, but it did not matter to us because we defend the protection of the most vulnerable against the most detestable and deplorable crimes. In 2018, when the PNV tried to repeal with the support of the PSOE and other House groups, we proposed an alternative that already included these assumptions. Therefore, we have been working since 2018 to avoid its repeal. Even the Constitutional Court gave us the reason for the unconstitutionality appeal filed by the Socialist Party along with other parties in the parliamentary arch then, when both the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council had already given their approval. With the permanent prison reviewable we are approaching Europe, because it is a penalty that exists in most of the countries in our environment for many years now. Of course, in addition to being in line with the Constitution, it is also in line with the International Criminal Court and the European Court of Human Rights, because the reviewable permanent prison is designed for the most heinous and exceptionally serious crimes. We must not repeal something that is unquestionable, both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the public, and facts such as those suffered by those who are with us today show that there is a need to broaden the assumptions. It is not only necessary, but it is of genuine justice, because there is nothing more just than laws that think of the victims and their families. For this reason, the People's Parliamentary Group registered this initiative in 2019 and again in 2021; on this occasion, with the endorsement of Citizens, Navarra Suma, Foro Asturias and Coalition Canaria, I would like to thank them for their full confidence in the text of the bill prepared by the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] And they will allow me also to thank my spokesman, Cuca Gamarra, for his commitment and interest so that this initiative could be promoted, because today we would not be here without his commitment. Thank you, Cuca. [[Applauds]] Today, we are pleased that those who in the past rejected the reviewable permanent prison and appealed it to the Constitution share their need with us. Well, last year, when in the People's Parliamentary Group we were working on this bill calling for the amendment of article 140 of the Criminal Code, which regulates the permanent prison that can be reviewed, to register it again, Marisol called all parliamentary groups in this House through the media. And at that meeting - we remind those we attended - we moved its intention to initiate the proceedings of a popular legislative initiative in which it called for something very similar to this initiative on which the parliamentary group was working and, therefore, we undertook to present it as a proposal for a law. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Parliament we are starting a path that I hope will be short and fruitful in approving the amendment to Article 140 of the Criminal Code and extending it in two cases. To this end, it is necessary that the groups that support this consideration also commit themselves to speeding up their processing and we shall soon see the presentation under way. These two assumptions, which are of grave concern to Spanish society in relation to the crime of murder, are the concealment of corpses and the recidivism of this criminal type, because, in addition to the affliction caused by the murder of a family member in their loved ones, the fact that they cannot even bury him is an added pain caused by the released action of the killer. As those who accompany us are well aware, in some cases the killers have refused to reveal the place where they hid the body of their victim, even when they are already condemned in a firm; hence the need for permanent reviewable prison. Moreover, it is also necessary when the offender has been convicted of murder in the past and commits the crime again while he or she is at liberty, that is, recidivism. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative arises from the courage, the warmth, the dignity, the decency, the closeness and the sensitivity of some broken families who do not want to happen again or others suffer what they have suffered. Unfortunately, these are real and unimagined and hypothetical cases. For this reason, the Spanish society to which we democratically represent in this House sends through the families who accompany us today in the guest gallery a very clear message looking directly into our eyes. It wants a criminal response to such serious and painful cases, a response that broadens the assumptions, a response that is endorsed by more than 80% of Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a hot bill, as we have been told on more than one occasion, nor is it a punitive populism or a social feeling, as we have sometimes been accused of. This is an initiative that many families and citizens support with the reason for the despair of not being able to bury their victims and with indignation because some want it to resign simply. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no hot legislation or backtracking. This debate has already been overtaken, fully endorsed by the Constitution and Spanish society. Our obligation is always to look forward and improve standards so that they serve more effectively the general interests and needs of society. It is not a question of increasing an exceptional penalty, which has only been sentenced in a few cases in the last few months. The penalty is precisely for the commission of very exceptional and atrocious crimes and is to condemn, deter and extend it to very serious and shocking cases not initially covered by the norm. There are political groups that claim that it is not effective and even a spokesman from the left said in the rostrum: 'We should never have had this debate under the umbrella of the sadness and tear that results from the death of a small one'. I want to remind you that the tearing is even more intense and painful if the murderer of the little one is at large after having been convicted of another murder before. The Left has also reiterated that we must not shift the false belief from the Legislature that a tightening of penalties will lead to greater protection and security. Neither anger, nor anger, nor thirst for revenge, ladies and gentlemen; this initiative is a legislative, adequate, protective, reflective response, in line with the Spanish Constitution, with the sense of support of a very important part of the Spaniards that Parliament cannot and must not let go. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past there was no adequate criminal response to criminal behaviours such as those suffered by Marta, Diana and Marta, who have lost their lives and whose relatives are in the rostrum. Nor is there at the present time, but we can make society protected in the future from the actions of these heartless ones, as their families want. It is time to act and change the Penal Code so that judges and courts can give sufficient criminal response to such cases as Marta del Castillo, Diana Quer and Marta Calvo. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we cannot restore their lives, we cannot erase the facts that have happened and that they and their families have suffered, but we can put all the means in place to ensure that this suffering does not recur in other families and friends. For this reason, I appeal to all parliamentary groups who still hesitate to address their gaze to the guest gallery in which Marisol and Juan Carlos find themselves, giving us an example of strength despite the dismay but, above all, of generosity in their struggle so that other families do not have to suffer the same calvary. You know that you have all the respect of the People's Party, all our affection, all our commitment, because your cause is ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u36	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u37	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today it is a pride and honor for me to be here in this rostrum not as a politician, not even as a lawyer, but only as a citizen more, a citizen more who has the right to come up here and be able to lend his voice to Juan Carlos Quer, Marisol Burón, Antonio del Castillo and so many other families who have suffered the loss of a loved one. [[The lady]] Today they become legislators Juan Carlos, Marisol, Antonio and others who could be crushed in their dismay, depression or sadness, but who decided to fight so that they would not happen to other families again what happened to them. They're really public servants, because what they do doesn't do for them, they do for others. When you are a father - I am a father of two children - you can imagine what happens when you don't discover or find your son's remains simply to bury them; or you can imagine what happens when someone who was in jail and who said that if you were released you would do it again has killed your son. You can imagine, you can imagine what you should feel thinking that you will never see that person you loved and that person you still love again. And I say they're heroes because we all know that the penal rules are retroactive and they're not going to have any influence on finding the remains of Marta Calvo or Marta del Castillo. However, these people in the rostrum don't want anyone to happen again, and tomorrow we could happen to any of the people we're sitting here. Look, these kinds of speeches always lead one to empathy with other people's pain, but I don't want to talk about pain anymore today, I want to talk about law here today, I want to talk about justice, I want to talk about security and I want to talk about the Spanish Constitution. Article 140 of the Criminal Code punishes the following cases with permanent reviewable imprisonment: when a person under the age of sixteen is killed, a person with a disability is killed, more than one person is killed, a person is killed after he has been raped or a terrorist crime is committed. Genuine lifesavers, immoral behaviors to which we simply, from a technical point of view, want to add two more behaviors: that no reason be given for the whereabouts of the body and that it be repeated. Why? First of all, because not to account for the whereabouts of the corpse what it does is to deliberately increase the pain of loved ones by not being able to bury them, by not being able to go and pay homage to them, to pray for them or to what everyone wants to do by remembering those loved ones who died unjustly. Do you think this is weird? [[The Lord]] The body in a murder or murder - is being told by the person who has devoted his entire life to criminal law - is the body of the crime, is one of the essential pieces of a criminal investigation for murder or murder, which allows, for example, to find out if there is lightness, because there are or no defensive signs in the body, or allows to see if there has been bleeding, because the pain of the offender, of the victim, has been deliberately and inhumanly increased. Is it so rare, when in our Criminal Code there is a crime of obstruction of justice, that we try to punish with greater punishment, with permanent imprisonment, the conduct of that criminal murderer who does not realize where the body is located? If this is perfectly co-honest and consistent with article 25 of our Constitution and with the general and special prevention and reintegration effects claimed in this article 25 of the Constitution. If we try nothing more than to stand on the side of the victims, we try nothing more than to protect our society firmly, nothing more than that. What about recidivism? Well, exactly the same thing. Those sociopaths, those psychopaths who are in jail and whose punishment for horrendous crimes is about to be defeated, say, "As soon as I get out, as you take me out, I'm going to do it again. And the state puts on the street a real time bomb that can touch you. It can't be. Other countries in our environment, our closest countries in Europe, allow this. If we had taken these measures before, there would have been no crimes such as Lardero's or Huelva's, there would have been no crimes. That's why I say you can touch anyone. It cannot be legislated by a television hit, it cannot be legislated by a hit and it must not be legislated solely on the basis of the pain of the citizens and, of course, not even to speak, in order to obtain a political revenue. It is a question of justice, it is a question of security, of protecting our society; it is something that perfectly marries our Constitution and therefore - excuse me for making this speech as a jurist, as a legume - we have to deal with it here. Do not tell me that the right not to testify against oneself and not to confess guilty is recognized, not because, if so, it would be ridiculous for the Criminal Code to contain the attenuating of confession, the aggravating of recidivism or the crime for which, when someone illegally detains a person and fails to account for his whereabouts, he is punished for murder in article 166 of the Criminal Code, and all this is constitutional, all this is not hurting our Constitution in its articles 24 and 25. The criminal will be able to remain silent, but he will have to submit to the most serious consequences that this Chamber will write in the Penal Code and, in this way, we will try to motivate him to tell where the remains of the victims are and does not deliberately increase the pain of the offender by a figure of clear bleeding. Look, Law 4/2015 regulates the status of the victim of the crime and says that its objective is to provide from the public authorities as wide a response as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims, not only in the reparation of the damage, but also minimizing other traumatic moral effects. This is what we are doing here today, as public authorities, minimizing moral damage to the victims of crime. Indeed, as Mrs Montesinos said, a number of parliamentary groups have signed this initiative. We would like the rest of the parliamentary groups to add to it. It seems that the Socialist Group is going to vote yes and, of course, we are happy. We would also like Podemos and the rest of the members of this House to be added and not deleted from this initiative. I want to make my own the words that Marisol said to the media this morning: Please, for charity, if you do not want to vote in favour of this initiative, abstain, but do not vote, do not vote against. The Constitutional Court has already made it clear that we are, in the permanent prison, subject to a constitutional measure. There are therefore no excuses to vote against this initiative. Be up to speed and give the green light to this reform, which we call for in article 140 of the Criminal Code. I'm on my way. I have deliberately avoided referring to my political party throughout my speech, and I have done so because I also want to make my own the words that Juan Carlos Quer said to the media this morning. He said: This is not a question of acronyms, this is not a question of ideology, this is a question of simple humanity. I have tried to show you that it is also a matter of justice, security and law. So, on your behalf, JuanCarlos, Marisol, Antonio and in that of your daughters, for them and for you, I ask everyone to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u38	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to greet Marisol and Juan Carlos, but also to thank them for their generosity, because, as has been said before, the victims who have already been victims will not be able to benefit from this law, but the generosity of their struggle and the support of this House, which I am sure they will have, will certainly make these facts much more difficult and their punishment much harder in the future. That's the goal. [[Applauds]] We have been coming to this House for many days and wondering if what we do here is useful, if what we do here serves to transform society. I believe that if there is an initiative that we can be proud of throughout this Parliament, and if there is an initiative that deserves the unanimity of this House, it is certainly this. This initiative is a social cry, but it is also a moral duty. It is a social outcry because every time, unfortunately, a crime of this kind occurs in our country, the Spanish citizens put our hands to the head and say that this cannot happen again. All those Spanish citizens who put their hands in the head can do nothing, but those who are in this House can. It is our duty to act and it is our duty to make it difficult for crimes like these to occur. It is true that the law cannot be vindictive, but it is also true that the law cannot be blind. The law can't turn its back on the real facts, because there are people who can't live in freedom because they just don't know how to live in society. The Penal Code has a purpose, which is reinsertion and re-education, but how can we say that someone has been reinserted who, when he gets out of prison, is again murdered? How can we say that someone who, despite confessing to an atrocious crime, is unable to tell where the victim's remains are and to alleviate even a little the suffering of their families? These people are neither reinstated nor revoked, nor can society allow them to live in freedom, because their freedom is insecurity for all others. [[Applauds]] In addition, many of these victims are children and women, and this is also a matter of coherence. We cannot say that we want to defend women and not do everything possible to make their killers - who also reoccur or do not want to confess where their bodies are - stand on the street. That's working for women, too. And I'm gonna end up because I don't have much more to say either. This law defends itself. I believe that it is a right and a moral obligation of all who are here, and I believe that this law deserves unanimity. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u40	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Forty years ago, a cousin of mine, eighteen years old, and four friends of that age died in the fire of La Gomera, where more than thirty people died. I remember my aunt and those four mothers and I always thought there was no greater pain. A few years later, the seventeen-year-old son of a friend of mine threw himself on a seventh floor. I accompanied my friend, and I don't think there's any more pain: that you lose a child, that it's unexpected, that it's young. But that, really, was overcome a few years ago when Macarena and I were asked by some parents to receive them. It seems that the reviewable permanent prison is here because the politicians were sensitive and came to us, but it wasn't that, it was because some parents asked us for a meeting and some of us went. At that time, I met Mari Luz's father, Marta's, Jeremi's mother and Sara's. Then, too, to you, the One, to whom we are mothers - in addition, I am the oldest of ten brothers and I have nieces and nephews - made us feel admiration. [[looking at the guest gallery]] Because when these things happen - when society fails you, when you lose everything and go crazy, as I lived with my friends and aunt - you think that life makes you unable to do good things and that hatred and resentment invade you. And all of a sudden, you were with parents who didn't come with hatred or grudge, but who came so that no father could go through the pain they had suffered, so that it wouldn't happen again when possible. We had a debate here where we were blamed for everything, for taking advantage of the pain, accused of demagogy and also told that it was unconstitutional. But, in the end, the Constitutional Court said that in this country to that date what was being done was injustice. And not only that, but then they kept fighting because the reality is raw. We can't put ourselves in that pain, but as the spokesman for Citizens said very well - because he is a lawyer - what we can avoid is that it is a mitigating agent that does not appear the body, because the test cannot be done, or that there are repeaters, with unfavourable reports to get out, that they come out again and that they can kill our children, our daughters. That can be avoided. And I have to thank two people. First, Macarena and the People's Party, for their enormous generosity, so that it can be seen that this is not political. As you will see, I am alone and I have no more comrades or votes and this could have been presented by the People's Party, but he called me and said, "Do you want to sign?" And I said, "Of course, I appreciate it, Macarena, you and the People's Party. But above all, I thank you for continuing to devote your time to preventing parents and boys from going through what you went through and, above all, from doing so on behalf of your children. [[looking at the guest gallery]] That immense generosity of working for society and for all the people who do not deserve to go through the same thing as you. Moreover, with this which we approve today - and which I hope it will be finally approved soon - we will avoid, not only with the force of the law, but with reason, that the risk will be taken. There are risks that you can't avoid, but there are others that do, and we wouldn't forgive God if we didn't stop it from happening not to a hundred, not to fifty, but to a single child in this country. I want to express my admiration for you and thank you, because the permanent reviewable prison and this that we started today, as you said this morning, we do it on behalf of our children, of our daughters, of our families. I say thank you on behalf of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u42	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u43	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon; also to the relatives and friends of the victims who are with us today. As you all know, the Basque Parliamentary Group has opposed the approval of the permanent prison that can be reviewed in 2015, and since its adoption we have put forward initiatives in all legislatures for its repeal. So, even for this reason alone, we will vote against taking this initiative into consideration. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, the reasons for opposition to the permanent prison that can be reviewed and, more rightly, to the extension of the prison to two new cases, however serious they may be, are, without prejudice to the fact that the criminal review of any of these conduct may be considered elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already said before this House that the permanent reviewable prison is a manifestation of the criminal law of risk, of danger; of the criminal law of fear, which feeds on the exponential growth of fear in society, a product of the use made of it by certain political forces for spurious purposes; of a preferentially retributive criminal ideology and of the sensationalism of some social media that plunge society into its growing demands for punishment. And this situation reaches its maximum tension when fear in society is coupled with the pain of the victims, thus paying the politicization of criminal law as a satisfaction to the impatience of the public, demanding increasingly severe punishments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Nationalist Party has opposed, since its adoption, and today we reiterate, the reviewable permanent prison, for considering it an example of excessive criminal law, which breaks the constitutional consensus, which opted for a guaranteed criminal response, governed by the principle of the humanization of penalties embodied in article 25 of the Constitution, and there are no criminal policy reasons to claim this penalty. We live in a relatively safe society, as the memories of the Prosecutor's Office indicate. The most serious crimes continue to diminish. Our custodial sentences are remarkably severe and of full compliance in many cases, and the low crime rate is associated with a high rate of prison population aged over seventy years. These facts, these State data on criminal matters, justify that experts in this public policy do not claim for our Criminal Code the penalty of permanent imprisonment that can be reviewed. And I am referring to the legal profession, the criminalistic doctrine, the university, through the chairs of criminal law and penitentiary; the Prosecutor's Office, through their memoirs; the General Council of the Judiciary, the Judicial Police and Prison Institutions. For its part - it has already been pointed out - the Constitutional Court, now almost six months ago, in October last year, handed down a favourable judgement against the permanent prison that can be reviewed. It reminds us of the statement of reasons as justification for his goodness. However, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in this House is about the opportunity for permanent imprisonment to be reviewed in our legal system. It is a criminal policy debate about whether it is necessary, appropriate and proportional to the sentence of permanent imprisonment; about whether it is a measure we need, given the crime and typology with which we face, and the Basque Nationalist Party considers that this sentence is not an appropriate punishment for them. The two particular votes, I have to point out, made by three judges to the above-mentioned constitutional sentence, come to the same conclusion, when they state that the reviewable permanent prison is an impoverishment of our democratic legal system and an example of a civilizing regression that makes it a historical anomaly of the current constitutional system, that it subjects the custodial sentences to the mandate of humanization, and that it departs from the liberal principles in the fulfilment of the sentences and, in particular, from the one that guarantees the dignity of the person, which does not say much in our view, of those who are said at all times liberal party and who then bring us to debate initiatives such as the present, which aligns with positions that represent a regression in the rationality of the penal system and in the quotas of civilizing progress that involve democracy itself. I am finalizing, President, with the same words I used in the last plenary session in which we discussed the issue of reviewable permanent prison. Criminal law is not built by forgetting the pain of the victims; it takes it into account, but it does so in relation to the crime situation and other civilizing values that have allowed us to evolve in advanced democratic societies. We sympathize with the pain of the victims, but by regulating the criminal response, we transcend it in the interest of a better protection of the general interest. The reviewable permanent prison, in our view, is not a good law. It does not make our society a better society; it does not add effectiveness to the avoidance of serious crimes; it carries a significant risk to our basic values; it breaks, in the words of these three judges of the Constitutional Court, the commitment of each generation to strengthen and improve fundamental rights and deepen the progress of the task of humanization, and contradicts the humanistic values that guide the action of the Basque Nationalist Party. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we will not give our support to the initiative discussed on the reviewable permanent prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u44	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u45	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced here with a proposal for a law which seeks to introduce two new circumstances in which the reviewable permanent prison is applied to crimes of murder. The truth is that it is a controversial measure, and I believe that the debate that we have to do must be from the perspective of rigour, transferring all solidarity with the pain of these families that accompany us, but also knowing that the approach that we have to do is precisely that of the Chamber and not that of the rostrums, a debate and a fully legislative approach. The reviewable permanent prison was incorporated in 2015, and the first sentence was released in 2017. The Supreme Court revoked it in 2019. In the Constitutional Court's appeal, three of the ten judges voted against this measure. From 2015 to 2022 - I think it is also good to contextualize - the sentence of permanent imprisonment, which can be reviewed on twenty-four occasions, has been sentenced. We know that the measure, according to experts, does not deter the commission of more serious crimes that even compromise fundamental values of democratic society, and criminal policy study groups, judges, lawyers, professors of criminal law question it. However, we will facilitate this debate; an in-depth debate, a debate that we want to be technical, away from the headlines, away from hot legislation; a debate that can generate the right approach if this measure has to be extended to other cases or perhaps disappear from existing ones. In any case, we want a debate that is unique and unique to the legislator, with experts, with differentiated positions and without a prioriism in the face of this proposal for a law. In our opinion, it will certainly be a good exercise not to legislate hotly and to calmly address the debate on a minimum controversial measure and which requires at least the balance sheet of what has been its implementation over these years, since 2015. Therefore, for our part, we will vote in favour of a successful legislative proposal, but with this I do not want to mean that it is ultimately a vote in favour of parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u46	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u47	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Political decisions of particular significance should never be made on the basis of social indignation sustained by hours of garbage journalism that rages in the wounds caused by a crime, however horrendous it may be. The proposal before us today does exactly this, putting the pin on the demagogic and populist exploitation of the most repugnant crimes, taking advantage of the legitimate indignation of the citizens, especially the people affected. It does so by adding to the current cases of reviewable permanent imprisonment two more cases, with the argument that there is a deep concern in society. In particular, the cases are the concealment of the body and the recidivism of the crime of murder. The only justification - I read literally - for this proposal is that successive demoscopic studies confirm that Spanish society is mostly in favour of permanent prison reviewable. There we are, doing criminal policy on the basis of demoscopic studies. We, Junts per Catalunya, believe in the politics and responsibility of all to make sound decisions that respond not to demoscopic tendencies, but to the goal of reaching a certain model of society. This is where I wanted to get to, the model of society that is being pursued with this legislative reform. As many of you will have heard, the quality of a society, its ethical and democratic level is seen in its prisons, in its prison system and - I add - in its penal and prison policy. In Catalonia, we have opted for a prison system based on the principles of rehabilitation and reintegration, inconsistent with a punitive retributive justice institution such as the permanent, reviewable prison. The parties that defend it, the right and the right of Spain, are politically irrelevant in Catalonia, but in the Spanish state the mental framework is another, and in this regressive mental framework the Socialist Party has also been put in place. Look, I'm quoting criminal and repressive reforms just in 2015, a year that was a black hole, legislatively speaking. The gag law and the reform of the Penal Code now before us were adopted. The Socialist Party in 2015 and in the 2019 election program promised to repeal the two laws. And what does it say now, having the majority to do so? Well, as expected, quite the opposite. Last October, the Minister of Justice took off saying that society does not deserve the Government to reopen this debate because it creates uncertainty and the Constitutional Court has ruled. These statements are not enough, they are inadmissible, because they place the Constitutional Court as legislator and give rise to the penal reform of 2015, taking advantage of what a court says, however constitutional it may be. This is a renunciation of reversing the legislative reforms of the People's Party, a political dimension, which the Socialist Party confirms today. It is no wonder that Spain is considered a defective democracy. Today, Amnesty and the GRECO Group of the Council of Europe, both, have denounced Spain for its low democratic quality. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the question is not whether to extend or not to extend the permanent reviewable prison, but to repeal or not to repeal; to buy the positive mental framework in criminal matters of the right and the extreme right of Spain or not to buy it. I think it is clear that the Socialist Party, contrary to what it promised during the election period, has bought it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u48	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u49	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to show, on behalf of my group, our solidarity and empathy with the families of the victims here. It entered into the matter of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the reviewable permanent prison is already regulated in our legal system, in article 140 of the Criminal Code, and applies in the event of murder and under three circumstances. The first is whether the victims are under the age of sixteen or are particularly vulnerable because of age, disease or disability. The second, that the murder occurred after a crime against the sexual freedom of the victim. And the third, that whoever commits the crime is a member of a criminal group or organization. Having said that, from the United Nations We believe that the best way to prevent crimes and violence in this case is by addressing its structural components through public policies of equality and protection for children and adolescents. That is why our Government will allocate more than 20 billion to equality policies between 2022 and 2025 under the III Strategic Plan for the Effective Equality of Women and Men. This is a historic investment that will be aimed, precisely, at guaranteeing a life free of machist violence. As you know, we are currently in the presentation phase with the draft Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, a bill that was debated in this House and which the members of the People's Party did not support. And it is that little seems to matter to his lordships of the PP the macho violence that women suffer when Feijó quickly adopted the negationist speech of VOX in his takeover of the presidency. And it does not seem to matter to the lords of the PP the macho violence when its president Ayuso has ridiculed in the last week repeatedly the investments of the Ministry of Equality dedicated to combating all gender violence. I would also like to remind you that in this House we have adopted the Organic Act on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents, known as the Rhodes Act, which also includes a strategy for the eradication of violence against children and adolescents. Both the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom and the Law Rhodes, the law on the protection of children, are two firm commitments of the Podemos-En Comú Podem to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. Ladies and gentlemen of the proposing groups, you say that you are bringing to debate this initiative to amend the Criminal Code in order to respond to a problem of social danger. Frankly, I have my doubts about his intentions, for I do not believe that any democrat can come to believe that punitive populism is an effective tool to prevent crime. First, according to the General Council of the Judiciary, 311,000 convicted crimes were committed in Spain during 2020, of which 217 were killed, 0.07%. This reflects that, in fact, we are facing a low murder rate, and if we compare ourselves to the rest of the OECD countries, in fact, we are at the top 5 of the countries with the least murders. Secondly, using permanent prison reviewable as a tool to combat social danger is a Francoist framework, and you know that it has already been overtaken in the new constitutional order. In democracy, ladies and gentlemen, the prevention and fight against crime must be carried out within the constitutional frameworks of reintegration and re-education, with powerful public policies of equality and protection against violence, both sexual and anti-child and adolescent. With regard to recidivism, let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that when recidivism occurs, it is because everything society must have done to fulfil the constitutional mandate has failed - it has failed -. That is precisely where we have to put all our democratic efforts, to ensure the processes of re-education and reintegration, and to do so we must meet the demands of improving the prison system demanded by professionals, from prison officials to health care workers, educators and psychologists. In honor of the truth, ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that punitive populism does not save lives. All we have to do is look at the United States, where life imprisonment exists, by the way, and even the death penalty and, despite this, forty-five murders are committed every day, with a homicide rate that doubles Spain's homicide rate. For every 100,000 inhabitants in the United States, five murders are committed a year; in Spain we do not reach 0.7. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that UN Podemos-En Comú Podemos is in favour of making every effort to guarantee the rights of the victims, but we are not going to help to capitalize the suffering of the victims for any political project. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u50	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u51	With venial, Mr. President. A father who asks for permanent imprisonment for a criminal who has raped and murdered his daughter is not seeking revenge, is asking for justice. [[applause]] Revenge would be raping and killing the criminal's daughter. Ladies and gentlemen, how many more children do we have to lose at the hands of monsters in order for you to react at once? How many predators, how many monsters are going to continue to allow them to take advantage of a crack in the system to rip out an innocent child or a young woman with a lifetime in front of her parents' arms? How many mothers, how many parents are you, the Legislature, going to continue to sentence the life sentence that means knowing that your daughter has spent the last moments of her life raped by a recidivist killer? [[Applauds]] These and not others are the questions that all of you are going to have to answer today with your vote, each and every one of you, because what we are discussing today in this session is the extension of the permanent prison reviewable to two concrete assumptions: the murder with concealment of the body and the recidivism of the murder. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can today, from this rostrum, on behalf of the VOX Group, demand a public commitment to the parents present here and to all the parents of the murdered children that they are not only going to make a paripe vote today in favour of taking this law into consideration, but that they are not going to go to the fraudulent subterfuge to use their majority in the Bureau of the House to extend the deadline for the processing of amendments so that this urgent reform does not see the light. [[Applauds]] I demand a public commitment. This reform was introduced in 2015 alone with the absolute majority of the People's Party. And I tell you loud and clear, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of VOX, that it is an insufficient reform and that it has arrived very late. How is it possible that since 1995, which is the date of adoption of our current Penal Code, until 2015 the Penal Code will be reformed up to twenty times and you do not react before introducing an absolutely necessary penalty for these predators, for these monsters? With a minimum of knowledge of criminal policy, it is known that they are not reinsertible, that they cannot be reinserted into society, as if they were not playing all of you politicians, a macabre Russian roulette with the lives of our children, who are the ones who put themselves at risk when they allow you to see the light of the sun in freedom recidivist killers, authentic monsters who stalk our children in the shadows. If you do not recognise that the second murder is a failure of the system, we are doomed to repeat the rulings, and here you have three families who have paid with their children's lives for not reacting in time, as shown by the fact that today we are debating an extension of the 2015 reform to those two concrete assumptions. Make it very clear that if the president of the government, Mariano Rajoy, in 2010 stated that there was no need to be afraid of a debate on life imprisonment, today only VOX defends that life imprisonment for the most execrable crimes, and it will be the legislative reform that we introduce in Spain when the Spaniards give us enough confidence. [[applause]] From 2015 until March 2022, up to thirty-four people have been sentenced to a reviewable prison sentence: David Oubel, sentenced in 2017 for murdering his two minor daughters; Sergio Díaz, killed his disabled grandfather; Daniel Montaño, murdered a seventeen-month-old girl; Marcos Miras, murdered his eleven-year-old son, and thus up to thirty-four sentenced to permanent imprisonment. In 2015, all Members of this House, except the People's Party, voted in favour of these monsters leaving prison once they had served the maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years, and were able to enjoy prison permits much earlier, as is currently possible through permanent prison after the eight-year term. I have come to the Journals of Sessions of this House, specifically to the Journal of Sessions dated 15 January 2015, to find out what were the reasons that led them not to support a punitive measure that is absolutely necessary with a minimum non-sectarian knowledge of criminal policy. Do you know what he said, for example, Republican Left, at that time Joint Group, through his spokesman, Joan Tardà? That there are more punishments, that are harder, will not protect the victims any more or better. They have repeated it again in this House today. Tell that to Laura Luelmo's mother, the twenty-six-year-old girl who was savagely assaulted and murdered in El Campillo by a monster only two months after she left prison, where she had served a twenty-year sentence for murdering an elderly woman. Tell that to Alex's mother, the nine-year-old boy killed in Lardero by a monster only once and a half after leaving prison, where he had served twenty years in prison for sexual assault, murder and child abuse. Of course, higher penalties reduce crime! If those two monsters - to quote just two examples- would have been in prison, Laura and Alex today would be alive. [[Applauds]] But if we, as legislators, do not see in that second murder a failure of the system, I repeat that we are doomed to repeat the failures that enclose in the lives of the people we lose. Left Republican, the Socialist Party and today United We can qualify the reform of our criminal law that introduced permanent prison reviewable as punitive populism. Tell that to the three families who are here today, who are the architects of the reform that we are debating today...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u52	Your Honor, you must finish, please, your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u53	... and that they are suffering - I conclude, Mr President - the real life imprisonment, the death in life that in two of the cases implies the taking of thirteen years and two years and four months looking for the corpse of their daughters in order to be able to bury them and begin their mourning.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u54	Your Honor, your time has passed, please finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u55	In conclusion, Mr President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u56	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Certainly, when you think you can't touch any more bottom, there's always a VOX deputy at hand to get you out of the mistake. Mrs Olona, we're all politicians here, but some of us don't do politics with people's pain. [[Applauds]] That has a name. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law before us raises the possibility of extending the permanent prison to two cases, as has been said, the concealment of the body and the recidivism of the murder. In this sense, we show great respect and understanding for the hardness of the pain that occurs in the cases of murder and understand that there is an element of additional pain caused by the concealment of the body. I would like to make a few brief comments on this. We are talking about suffering that goes beyond what is derived from one's own murder or murder and that, therefore, could deserve an additional sanction. We understand that there must be a purpose to solve this pain and bring dignity to families, this is the right thing to do. But now you do so at your convenience, because in view of the pain or suffering caused to the relatives or relatives of the victims, which is precisely what you want to substantiate this proposal of law, you could resort to crimes already existing in the Criminal Code, such as psychological injury or the crime against moral integrity. But, even if we go further, if what is intended is to protect relatives and relatives by the suffering that can cause them to hide their bodies, we agree that a legal reform is necessary that addresses the issue, but its solution, that of aggravating the murder penalty, this permanent prison that can be reviewed, is not the most appropriate and credible for a number of reasons. First, the concealment of a body may result in the commission of a new offence against a different legal asset. Secondly, it is introduced only for the crime of murder and not for the crime of murder, when it is evident that the suffering involved in the concealment of a body can be the same in both crimes. And, thirdly, because by configuring it as an aggravated form of murder it is prevented from being applied to other persons who, since they have been involved in this crime, conceal the corpse by causing equal suffering. Thus, the erroneous and limited regulation in its proper drafting of a case that could be broader confirms the idea that the ultimate objective of its proposed law is not so much to punish this suffering as to extend the application of the reviewable permanent prison sentence and to recover this punitive discourse. By the way, they were able to do it in 2015, with a majority, and they didn't. Why now, ladies and gentlemen? Therefore, in view of the additional pain suffered by relatives and relatives, we will vote yes to this initiative in consideration of the initiative so that, in the parliamentary phase, by means of amendments, we can submit amendments so that it is a text more appropriate to our penal tradition and to the constitutional order and respond - yes - to the pain of families, objective, yes, shared. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, you rise here again and again to this rostrum with that false attribution, that of being owners of the values of justice and having more authority than anyone in proposing legislative reforms, especially those involving more penalties or new penalties, because, ladies and gentlemen, you confuse more penalties with better justice. Rectification. For some - it has already become clear with the spokesman of VOX - is its main argumentative line. We are faced with a motion for a law driven by a large part of this House and it is true that we must adopt a calm, reasoned, firm and objective position in the face of the approaches we make when defending the proposal, not in the background it underlies, but in how you deal with the issue in your written proposal and, above all, in some words that we have heard today in this rostrum. And it's true that some speakers don't make it easy, and look how hard we are. The historical tendency of the right to stage, to mix arguments with sophistications between patriots and partisans, that tendency to appropriate the debates, makes these move to a background, doing a weak favor to the causes that were left behind. The right wants to be such a protagonist that even in sensitive subjects they misdraw them under their verbal excess. Many initiatives have been discussed in this House, we have witnessed the birth of new rights or the protection of others. [[Rumors]] If you'll let me talk, I can go on, thank you. And I want to think that in all those moments the protagonists are not us, that there is no ethics for the Member, but for what is achieved. I think we do a weak favor to any cause if it is capitalized or if it is used as a weapon boldness against another or, simply, if our ego is so great that it hinders the vision of what we want to defend. [[Applauds]] In matters of punitive policy, such as restriction of rights and limitation of freedoms, the right and the right have this innate tendency to seek an unnecessary desire for protagonism. Look, it is not true that you legislate neither better nor paying attention to collective rights; it is false from the root. Moreover, it is the left that has to suture the social scars that leaves much of its legislation. We are now seeing this, for example, after the reform of the Citizens' Security Act. But they not only pro-actively cause excesses, but also when they oppose. We see this every day in plenary, in committees, in papers, when we try to legislate, for example, on helping women who decide to interrupt pregnancy and are harassed at the door of clinics or when we try to legislate new social rights. You not only oppose, but establish a moral line between good and bad and articulate interventions where your own character has more weight than the issue being discussed. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed some political tactics in this regard. That is why, despite an attempt to occupy a space and a role that does not belong to you, despite tilting the legislative balance towards solutions that do not seem to us to be the most suitable for this debate, for families, for relatives, and not for you, gentlemen of the right, our group is going to vote in favour of this procedure. Let us work to ensure that this House does the right thing and not its convenience. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u59	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the tax reduction of fuels in the face of the energy emergency. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Mariscal Anaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u60	Thank you, President. I rise to the rostrum to defend my parliamentary group's proposal for a tax reduction on fuels. These are exceptional measures for urgent moments such as the present. We have inflation above 7.6%, aggravated mainly by rising energy prices. Only in one year, from 2021 to 2022, the price of electricity rose by 80,5 %, diesel by 28,4 % and petrol by 25,1 %. This increase mainly affects the middle classes and, fundamentally, the most disadvantaged, aggravating the price of the shopping basket and access to it. This is the royal decree that we wanted to have presented today or that you would have taken on our behalf, a royal decree that seeks to lower taxes, because lowering taxes lowers inflation, which is the main tax of the middle classes. [[shows it.]] That was the option. Yours is another: more spending, more deficit and more debt. Who will pay the EUR 6 billion announced by the President of the Government yesterday at the press conference? Who's gonna pay for it? Between 2020 and 2021, November, you raised 917 million euros more by oil tax at the worst economic moment in our country's recent history, 917 million euros more, and in VAT more than 8 billion euros more in a year than in the previous year. On top of that, they have a committee of experts who advise a new rise in taxes, which talks about increasing natural gas by 245 % and car-related taxes by 45 %. It seems that its aim is to raise the income of others, to raise the income of the Spaniards. Take it yourself, ladies and gentlemen. Save your income, reduce your expenses, take it yourself. [[Applauds]] Do you know how much the individual income of the Spaniards has fallen since Sánchez is president of the government, according to the IMF? It has decreased by 1154 euros. Since Sánchez is president of the government, the income of the Spaniards has decreased by 1154 euros. What kind of arrogance leads you to think that you are more capable than individuals when it comes to assigning property? What arrogance motivates you to think that human action is always better controlled by the government and not by the individual? This way of governing increases and strengthens those who have liberal ideology because clearly their ideological principle leads to the regression and impoverishment of the Spaniards. If the initiative presented today was approved, if presented by the President of the Government, the gas tank of a Spaniard would be reduced by 23 euros each time filling the tank and by 20 euros the diesel tank. This initiative is immediate, does not require any kind of governance and does not have a bad influence on the national economy. Instead, yours, who's going to fund the 15 cents that the gas station has to pay? Ladies and gentlemen, will gas stations also have to finance their ideas and economic proposals? Ladies and gentlemen, we have presented this initiative to reduce the hydrocarbon tax to the minimum that Europe allows, to negotiate in Europe a super-reduced VAT for the consumption of petrol and to end this minimum - as I said earlier - in relation to the hydrocarbon tax and, in addition, to reduce VAT on natural gas and heating to 4%. Why does a Spanish consumer have to pay 21% and now 10% in electricity, and 21% for heating their house? What is the reason why the VAT on heating is higher than that on electricity? I tell you again: the desire you have to control the economy of families and to say what a Spaniard should do with his savings, limiting our spending capacity and our investment and saving capacity. [[Applauds]] This is how you see economic policy, which is why when it is said that there is no ideology, here you have one more example of how this ideology that you are pursuing dynamite and seriously harms the economic growth of our country. Take your income and expenses. We want to see a change in budgetary appropriations so that this initiative can be implemented. According to the Institute for Economic Studies, there are €60 billion in inefficient spending. You have to reduce the tax burden and establish relief mechanisms, as, for example, Germany, where it governs a socialist - as, apparently, you are - Chancellor Scholz, who, without needing the support of the European Council, has reduced by 30 cents the litre per petrol in his country and has given each German taxpayer 300 euros to pay for petrol or diesel. It has adapted to reality, they have supported it even the green ones in Germany. Who's wrong? Germany, Italy, Denmark, the Netherlands or Poland, which has reduced the VAT on heating to 0% and petrol to 8%? Or are you wrong? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of Podemos, it seems that there is no longer energy poverty in our country. Now there is no energy poverty and our country works perfectly. There has never been growth and impoverishment in our country as we are now, and you are responsible. They are jointly responsible for not supporting clear and decisive measures such as this which reduces the price of fuels, which are not only important for the lives of the Spaniards but mainly for activities such as agriculture, tourism or industry. They are seriously damaging economic growth and job creation. You are responsible for this by not supporting initiatives like this, which are clearly more efficient than those which appear today - because we do not know the content - to have been adopted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u61	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us put ourselves in a position: inflation in Spain stands at 7.5%, and rising - we will see tomorrow's figure -; the litre of petrol costs EUR 2; the price of megawatt, EUR 230 - has risen by more than 500 % in the last year. It is an unsustainable situation for families, businesses and workers in our country. However, someone will think that this initiative of the proposing group has been out of date after yesterday's stellar announcement by President Sánchez or that of today's Council of Ministers, of which, of course, we do not know the measures. I'm going to tell you what I think of your star plan. They have wrongly chosen the name: shock plan to alleviate the effects of the war. Of course, the invasion of Ukraine has aggravated the situation, but I remind you that inflation and the rise in energy prices, as has already been said here, and fuel prices have been affecting the Spanish for months. That is why you have wronged the name, because you want Putin to seem exclusive to the reality we have been suffering for many months, long before the invasion of February 24. Many months in which my parliamentary group has consistently insisted that this Government should take action and take the lead. The second thing I want to tell you is that it's a late plan, only Sanchez knows why it's taken so long to act. Why have they decided to prolong people's suffering three weeks when the European Commission was allowing measures to be taken since 8 March? Just to keep collecting? For it seems to me little knowing the president, because there is nothing better than having three moments of glory: first, saying that you will approve measures; second, proving them, and third, saying that you have approved them. And as usual in the president none of this was announced in Congress, once again showing contempt for institutions and desire for propaganda. It is late and it is intolerable for them to put the Brussels excuse to cover up their inaction. Tell us some of the measures announced yesterday by the President - one - that he will need the Brussels endorsement, because I have not found any. None. You speak of an Iberian exception, when the only exception is Spain. The exception is that it is the only country that has so far not taken a single measure. And the third thing I want to say to you is that there are - at least those we know so far, which have been leaked through the media and from which we do not have the small print - insufficient measures. Of course we are happy, and of course we welcome action; of course it is well received that the Government rectifys and alleviates the situation of families, but we will have to read the small letter of its shock plan to know how effective it is. We already run the risk that the plan will be over before its objective has been achieved - because I remind you that the measures have been taken until 30 June - and let us start again with the extensions. But, of course, we also know that trick: to more extensions, more minutes of glory. Our measures are clear, everyone knows them, the press knows them and the Government knows them, because we presented more than two weeks ago a five-sheet document, with a full and sufficient battery of liberal proposals for the short and medium term. Some of them we know have been included in this plan, but the Government can and must do more. It must deflate the IRPF rate, adjusting the tax scale to the inflation and real economic capacity of the Spanish; you must lower taxes on fuels, also extending low taxes on electricity, and you must boost the state energy pacts to seek solutions to the crisis and to bet on nuclear energy. These are measures in which we again insist today, through the amendment we have proposed to the People's Group, on the proposing group, because we need them to be adopted, because we need the government to listen to us and stop making excuses. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u64	Thank you, President. The People's Party brings us an initiative in which it tells the Government to assume its share of responsibility in the energy emergency. There is no doubt about that, but what about your responsibility, People's Party? They talk about tax cuts, but I remind them that they govern by absolute majority and, instead of lowering taxes, they raised it. [[Applauds]] Today, the Spanish pay the consequences of their decisions. You are responsible for what you call the climate emergency, the rise in energy prices, the closure of nuclear power plants and you are responsible for your weakness and hypocrisy, and we have seen it again with your abstention from the energy poverty initiative that brought VOX to this House. PP and PSOE, with their climate policies, have caused energy dependence and have installed Spain in total insecurity and lack of competitiveness and stability. Ladies and gentlemen, while you take on climate fanaticism, out there, the Spaniards are cold, because you have to choose between eating or turning on the heating. [[Applauds]] Many do not know how they are going to pay the bill for light, gas, fuel or feed for livestock, as they go up and up the shopping cart. There are empty shelves in supermarkets, the highest inflation in the last thirty years, public debt beating all records. These are the most churning things of this Government, as Minister Díaz would say. [[Applauds]] Spanish ruined by the climate laws and the harmful politics of the government; Spanish, more and more, who do not accept neither the crumbs of the government of the ruin nor who sell it to the unions of the shellfish. Hundreds of thousands of Spaniards want bread, not crumbs and, therefore, are on the streets, defending their children's bread. The street speaks, we have seen it in the last mass demonstrations. They had to be thrown out, they were screaming. A government that lies, impoverishes and manipulates must be thrown out; a government that ruins the Spanish, speaks to terrorists, to whom it calls moderate, and not to transporters, to whom they call the far right. [[Applauds]] It is a government that wants them to work below the cost price, i.e. work costs them money. A government that does not lower taxes, but spends 350 000 euros in the summer palace of Sánchez and 21 billion euros on the whims of the feminist moquette minister. A government that abandons transporters, farmers, farmers, fishermen, hoteliers, hoteliers, taxi drivers, bus drivers, men and women, while giving millions of euros to Chavista airlines, shellfish unions and friendly media, as well as millions for advisors and ministries for advertising and waste. The pandemic has taught us a lot, among which dependence on the outside makes us vulnerable. Spain must have its raw materials, it must strengthen its energy, economic, food, industrial and military sovereignty. We've been saying it for years and now we hear them talking about it. Welcome to the path of common sense. We have strongly criticized the submission to the 2030 Agenda, which impoverishes us and makes us dependent, and for thinking differently they call us negatists. Non-realistic negatists, as real is that the receipt of light has risen and that it is much more difficult to fill the deposit of a family or professional vehicle; as real is that energy is a strategic element for the national security of any country, so that a nation is free, for the international strength of Spain, for the development of industry, for the well-being of the population and for the very continuity of the nation; how real it is that PP and PSOE are the same and assume climate fanaticism in the same way, and therefore they will have to answer to the Spaniards. Spain is first. Our compatriots are the first, and given their spurious interests and their 2030 agenda only remains VOX and our Spain Agenda. His traps every day deceive less Spaniards and no, we won't shut up or be afraid. We will vote yes to the fuel tax drop and we will continue to defend in the courts, in the streets and in the institutions the interests of our compatriots. At his side in battle, every day, without fear of anything or anyone. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking to support the six points of this broad initiative of the People's Group in order to reduce the different tax burdens that are severely penalizing both the productive sectors and society as a whole for energy shortages and, in particular, for fuels. Ladies and gentlemen, in one of the most critical periods of recent history, in which the socio-economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic are dragged, together with the impacts of rising inflation, the war conflict in Ukraine and the fiasco of the forecasts for the preparation of the budgets for the current financial year 2022, there is no continuity in the collection voraciousness that fuels the insatiable unnecessary public spending. Just look at the pantagruelic needs of the members of the blue bank, half of the ministries are left for useless and because they involve a capital waste. Tens of thousands of carriers went on strike, fishing docked in ports, agri-farmers also producing at a loss and consumers selecting gas stations to try to save on fuel refueling. The Tax Agency is already collecting between EUR 3 000 and EUR 3 500 million in additional VAT as a result of the increase in electricity, gas, petrol and diesel prices. In short, with Spain in galloping impoverishment, it is obscene that it is continued to make extra box with the suppliers. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u68	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. The first thing to say is that this GNP is already completely out of date, and even in the explanatory statement the reduction in fuel has already been cut short, as announced this morning in the Government's decree law. In general, tax reduction measures can be justified when there is a significant increase in the base, not as a general rule. Here, there are issues that are good, such as the reduction of VAT on gas, or the increase that is due to the large increase in the tax base, but there are some issues that are really a toast to the sun, such as reducing unproductive expenditure, because we all share that we have to reduce unproductive expenditure - that is very well, I think the Government itself shares that - but the question is that we do not all agree on what unproductive expenditure is. Not everyone considers it the same. In the end, what is going to happen is that the Treasury will have to make the decision that is timely, if there is no more remedy, that it will already be a non-availability agreement, or incurring more deficit, or simply by the low budget execution, that would not be surprising as the investments go. We cannot share this GNP right now. There would be things that we could agree with, but the Government has already had the opportunity to hear us all - we will see these days more precisely how much it has gathered our proposals, concretely, in the royal decree law that it has approved - and really knows what we all think and the criticisms that it is going to have.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u69	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u70	In the PRC we consider the measures announced to be improved. They can be considered positive, but not those of this GNP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u71	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u72	Thank you, President. I think that if there is a current GNP, it is precisely this, if there is one issue that is worrying the Spaniards today, it is the insurmountable price they are paying for fuel, because this government, which is dedicated to criminalising, rather than solving, has had the transporters on the street for a week for not wanting to sit down and talk, for taking a step a month late. Not only does this problem affect transporters, it is that there are many people and many self-employed who have to take their car all day to work, and they have a problem that the Government does not solve them. And you know what happens? That the only possible solution is to lower taxes, because you're turning the gas stations into tax offices to get cut. Then, they say: can taxes be lowered and good services provided? Of course you can! But for that to happen, we have to cut down on chiringuitos, we have to cut down on ministries, we have to throw out half the consultants, we have to start an analysis of the costs of public services. And they say, this is parrot chocolate. Yes, but it is that parrot eats a lot of chocolate, and for chocolate to eat it parrot, it is better for the Spaniards to eat it and not for an elephantic government, that far from solving their problems, they get worse. That's what they have to do, and that's the only possible solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u74	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. Again, another evening, we talk here about tax cuts. It is brought to us by the right, again, and it does so in a more subtle way than openly saying what the purpose would be, which is to weaken public power and weaken the redistributive capacity of it, from our point of view. But in any case, this initiative, like many others who have brought the benches of the right, will allow us to see a picture of unity. Let us say the picture of the Most Holy Trinity, that of the Right One and Triune: that of the Father, who would be you; that of the Son, who would be the lords of VOX; and that of Citizens, who would be the Holy Spirit, not by transcendence, but by evanescence, rather. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Anyway, we're gonna see you all vote together. It is true that in your justification you pose a series of data that are irrebatable, they are the pure reality. That is, if the CPI is in what it is, it is in what it is; if inflation has risen, it has risen in what is said to have risen; if the money collected by the hydrocarbon tax or by VAT is what it is, it is what it is; if it has affected some sectors or others more, it is also incontrovertible. In any case, you conclude that what has been done is not enough when what has been done is even to make snakes of what you propose: that it is to lower taxes almost until they disappear as the only alternative measure or solution to the serious problem that we have and that you recognize in your justification. You talk about a whole series of vulnerable or targeted sectors, and I think you define, although not all of them, many of them. They talk about farmers, but I think that if they want to talk about the precarious situation of farmers they would also have to talk about why they make them sell at a loss or why they make them sell below the cost of production, because large logistics companies force them and large chains of hypermarkets force them. But, of course, meddling with what entrepreneurs or supermarkets would hurt the right. If you talk about parcel carriers, it would be good to talk about all the bogus self-employed who are forced to work there and the precarious working conditions they have on different parcel distribution logistics platforms. But, of course, getting involved with those big investors would also be complicated for the right. If we were to talk about the hardship or precariousness of people in the taxi sector, we would have to talk about the wreckage of VTC licenses. But, of course, getting involved with VTCs is, in the end, getting involved with your friends or your friends' children, because some connection with some of your parties has. And if we were to talk about humble homes, we would have to ask ourselves where the people of those humble homes work. Because who protects these people from humble homes? What do they propose if there is no strong state that distributes wealth and protects them? Will the companies that exploit them and pay them less and less to work more? Are entrepreneurs going to do this, putting basic rights at a price and making it possible for only those who have money to pay them and access them while the rest of them dream of one day getting to be able to opt for those rights? Are companies going to do it that bleed the state when they get regular things, but then they don't want to know anything about the state interfering in their business? Ladies and gentlemen, taxes serve to redistribute wealth, no more or less; it is not almsy to give to pariahs. For that, if anything, there will be the brush. You propose lowering taxes and improving efficiency. To lower taxes we are told that the hydrocarbon tax is 9514 million euros in November 2021 and that of the VAT of 68 145 million euros in 2021. That is what I was saying, and what they have also forgotten to say is that 58% of that EUR 9514 million and 50% of that EUR 68 145 million are distributed to the autonomous communities and it is they who spend them, in the common system - eye! - not in the Basque Autonomous Community or in the Foral Community of Navarre, which have another tax system. It should be said that Andalusia has carried 1411 million euros, that Madrid has carried 881 million euros, that Castilla and León has carried 659 million euros or that Galicia has carried 555 million euros, of which you seem excessive. Ask your partymates what they have done with that money, because I do not believe that the citizens of Galicia or Madrid or Andalusia or Castile and León feel safeguarded from this crisis. We could do the same with VAT. From my point of view, you make the wrong conclusion that by lowering taxes everything is arranged because companies are going to behave well. But what we have seen is that companies, for example, those that sell cheaper fuel, have risen by 30 cents when they see the government's 20 cents-down announcement. That is the ethics of some companies and we have seen how the profits of other large companies, such as Repsol and Cepsa, have multiplied in 2021 and are now selling us as new goods something they already had in December 2021. For example, that through their app, which is called Waylett, you can save money, something that already existed and now they sell it as new. In conclusion, if you want to seek efficiency, it is best not to invest in chiringuitos like that of Mr Cantó, that all you are doing is dignifying the spelling error within Spanish grammar and nothing else. You can bet on eliminating corruption, which is why you control something much more than us - there are 90 billion euros, according to Gestha, a year -; you can recover the money given to the bank bailout: 60.6 billion euros; you can get into extraordinary taxes on electric oligopoly, banking and big fortunes or, in any case, you can de-index the gas from the energy pool or attack the fallen profits from the sky, that the government attack, if you can qualify as an attack, only lasted six months. As you said - I finish already - this situation very negatively affects the economy of families, the productivity of businesses and competitiveness in general as a country.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u75	Your Honor, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u76	I would say that this almost casts doubt on the viability of a country. For that they have article 128 of the Spanish Constitution, which also, if they want and are encouraged, could do so. As you see, something moderate, moderately radical.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u77	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u78	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. My group is not going to support the non-legislative proposal, basically because we understand the substance and the urgent need to take measures to alleviate the energy crisis, but we also believe that the measures contained in it have become somewhat obsolete, or at best it is a somewhat outdated GNP, because the government has already directed action towards compensation or aid, so that it seems that it is now meaningless to introduce changes in taxation. Furthermore, we have to bear in mind - and I think it has also been said here - that a general reduction in the tax, adjusted to the minimum rate of the European Union, which is basically focused on hydrocarbons, which is not temporary, which is not limited in time, would have a high collection effect, and it seems unnecessary given the measures taken by the Government. Furthermore, it has not been taken into account in the GNP that, as an exception, there is a significant group to which it would not be feasible to reduce that quota paid for the hydrocarbon tax, since they are beneficiaries of a specific refund for the exact amount of excess quota compared to the minimum provided for in the Directive. This refund applies to vehicles intended for the carriage of goods by road with a maximum authorized weight equal to or greater than 7.5 and others, and is that the amount of the refund is limited to 50,000 litres of diesel per year -5000 litres in the case of taxis - and, although the beneficiaries pay at the time of refueling a quota of 37.9 cents euro/litre, subsequently, on a quarterly basis-now the Government has already announced that it is going to be on a monthly basis - they recover by means of a refund of 4.9 cents/litre, so that they would finally be paying for the 33 cents/litre hydrocarbon tax, exactly the minimum tax rate set by the Directive. And, as I said, the government has already reduced the tax refund period from three months to one. This GNP urges the Government to give up the general increase in hydrocarbon taxation proposed by the committee of experts, including as proposal No. 6 of the White Paper for tax reform. It seems clear that this proposal is not a timely implementation measure at the current juncture, because it is notorious that the price of natural gas and automotive fuels increases substantially. It seems inappropriate even though it also includes remedial tools to redistribute the impact, so that it affects little or nothing to low-income groups. In addition, we do not understand that there is an urge to give up something, a proposal that is in a report and that has not yet been debated or adopted by the Government. Furthermore, with regard to the proposal of the Committee of Experts, I would say that it is based on a premise, on a tax on hydrocarbons in Spain below the average taxation of the European Union and, therefore, with a certain margin of increase to gain revenue capacity, and yet the statement of reasons for GNP transfers the opposite, stating that the tax burden in Spain is higher than the European average, in terms of purchasing power, so that this point will have to be clarified in the future. Furthermore, the non-law proposal considers that the impact on income resulting from the proposed measures should not be offset from the income side by increased taxation on other tax figures or by reduced social expenditure. They stress that unproductive spending should be reduced, but the truth is that when they propose different measures or urge the government to do so, they all go against unproductive spending, and that should be looked at because I think it would not be enough for them. Finally, it must be said that the reduction of unproductive expenditure should be a permanent guideline in the management of public expenditure, beyond the special gravity of the current situation, so that the connection of this point of the GNP with the basis of the same fits in the same way as any other proposal for measures with a revenue-generating impact would fit. Finally, since you have brought these measures, I would like to know what plans you have other autonomous communities in which you govern, because you are also collecting for this tax in part in the common financing system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. The problem with this proposal by the Group of the European People's Party is not so much what it says as what it does not say. We can agree that, at exceptional times and on a temporary basis, the Government must use taxation as a more control mechanism until prices are stabilized. The problem is that you only talk about lowering taxes, you even demand to do so in a general way, obviating the impact that it may have on public policies or necessary services. Unlike you, the BNG defends to lower non-progressive taxes on essential goods, products and services, but to raise them to who else has, that is to say, to push the necessary modifications to go to a more just and redistributive tax policy. That is why we want to reduce VAT on electricity to 4%, for example, but not the electricity tax on companies or contributions to the National Energy Efficiency Fund. What needs to be done is to ban the impact on consumers, but at the same time increase the property tax from EUR 1 million or set rates on big fortunes and businesses that do business with public resources, such as electricity. The problem is that you, the government, are not prepared to stop the indecent benefits of big energy. Look, the six energy companies that are part of IBEX 35 multiplied by four their profits in 2012, more than EUR 10 billion; as I say, indecent and an insult to all people who have difficulty paying for electricity or gasoline. The problem is that this is an indecency that the two main parties of the regime have been defending for decades and this is the first thing that needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u81	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u82	Thank you, President. Go ahead, I've always considered Congressman Mariscal serious and rigorous. What happens is that sometimes parliamentary groups and political parties bring some Members up here to play roles that are not their own. Mr. Marshal, I understand that being in the opposition in such a situation you have to present measures and that when you have the point of view in matches like VOX, which every time you climb here say 'two more hard eggs', you already have to come prepared. [[Rumors]] Mr. President, they say they're giving me time, but don't worry, I'll give it back. In any case, when you have to take action - and you have been a party of government - you must be aware of the situation in which you are. What is the situation we have right now? We have 120% debt on GDP. And you ask to lower taxes. You come to the government in 2011 with 70% debt to GDP. And what are they doing? They increase VAT from 8 % to 10 %, others from 18 % to 21 % and some from 8 % to 21 % as a premium. We have to contextualize the situation a little bit. And the measures that the Government will now have to take to deal with this crisis are not going to be exhausted this week or next, unfortunately. Many measures will have to be taken, providing many resources, in a very difficult financial situation. Spain is currently the fourth most indebted state. [[Mr Anaya points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Yes, one and the other, one and the other, I don't care, Mr. Marshal. The point is that we are about to remove third place from the podium in Portugal. You have to be aware of the measures you take. You say you're going to lower the VAT on gas to 4%. What do you want me to say? That you and I should reduce the VAT on gas to 4%, I do not think it will solve the problem that we have right now and, above all, with regard to the future. And, more importantly, as we pass through here, they say that, from the White Paper of the Committee of Experts on Tax Reform, Recommendation No. 6, on which the Government has already said that it will be difficult to implement it during this parliamentary term, that they resign, when they have not yet done so. How are you going to quit? And the bloodiest thing is when you say that all these measures are going to finance them because you understand that there are 60 billion spending. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the chocolate parrot or the parrot of chocolate, 60 billion of expenditure that I do not know how it described them, whether as excessive, idle or unproductive. Look, compare the budget that the People's Party approved in 2018 with which it has approved the government now, draw the European funds and decide where the 60 billion are, because of them a few billion euros were already unproductive in the People's Party's budget. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we have to be a bit rigorous in the approaches. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u83	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor. [[Denial]] Thank you. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, President. I want to begin, Mr Mariscal, with a thank you, I do not know whether you or anyone on your team; in any case, the person responsible for modifying the GNP we have here today and, having done so, having thus eliminated the third point of the resolutions of your previous version, because you already have us accustomed to a certain dose of cynicism and the first version you recorded was already directly in the vein. After having argued that it is possible to reduce taxes generally without affecting social investment, after having said that unproductive expenditure can be reduced by improving the efficiency of public administrations, as Mr Bel said, and even - and you say, ladies and gentlemen, PP! - by eliminating corruption in the State, you still had the disdain to ask for compensation from the autonomous communities for the possible loss of collection from the general budgets of the State. I mean, on the one hand, they say you can and then they say you can't and give them the dough. Anyway, I suppose someone - perhaps you yourself, Mr. Marshal, I don't know - had an attack, an access of decency and decided to save us the cheek and the shame of others. So, for starters, I really appreciate it. But, of course, from there, what I have left are criticisms and counter-arguments in the face of that anti-tax ode that you present today as a parliamentary initiative. First of all, I must say that the explanatory statement is full of unscrupulous statements and arguments that you yourself disassembly, as you have already accused them of. They do what is impossible to relate the high price of fuels to taxes. They forget, for example, that the excise duty on hydrocarbons represents a fixed amount per litre of fuel, so that the variation in the price of the product does not imply a proportional variation in the tax. They also include a comparative table of European countries and their taxation on fuel, which is simply not true, Mr Mariscal, is not, and I would like to think it is because of a lack of updating. You quote as sources the Mixtec and Colors, but, of course, I go to those same updated sources to February of the same year and the picture is overwhelming, nothing to do with what you expose. Spain is the country with the lowest tax burden on gasoline 95, after Bulgaria and Romania, and, if we go to the automotive diesel, we hardly exceed any more, such as Estonia or Poland. On the other hand, we are witnessing another phenomenal exercise of demagogy in order to substantiate his argument, according to which the collection is being fired. They're filling up, said Mr. Feijoo. They have already reminded them who are being fed in any case: Galicia, Castile and León, Andalusia, Madrid. [[Rumors.- Mrs. Moralesja Gómez utters words that are not perceived]] Sorry, I didn't hear you. Oh, what am I talking about. Yes, it's true, I'm sorry. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u85	Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u86	Something just wants to tell me that, for lack of education, you don't know. He said that they can only think of a comparison between data from November 2021 and the same month of 2020, that is, the year of the crisis. At no time did they warn that the economy collapsed by 10.8%. Anyone would say that drawing structural conclusions from a point episode is at least a gross rudeness, when not a blatant attempt to take hair. That is why we must ask ourselves the value of the sources that you have used to develop this initiative. I see that they quote with profusion one of the studies of the Institute of Economic Studies. Anyone who does not know the nature of this institution can think by hearing this name that it is a non-partisan, technical, even eclectic think tank. Let me read you a brief excerpt from the same report, which you see as a beacon and guide to your tax approaches. I quote literally: 'There is a growing gap between citizens who get their remuneration from the market through voluntary and productive transactions based on mutual agreement and those who get it directly and indirectly from public administrations. The productive Spain, which generates goods and services in the private sector, increasingly bears the burden of unproductive Spain, which does not generate wealth but consumes it.' Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, perhaps it would have been more practical to start this debate here; that is to say, I would ask you to clarify here today if you really believe that public health and education, that social services, police, firemen, road and rail services are part of that unproductive Spain to which this institute refers, because to see if the problem is going to be that we do not agree on the terms. He had always thought that parasites in the State were those who took possession of other people's property, who collected commissions, who set up plots for the persecution of political opponents with public resources. Finally, perhaps this that the whole state is seen as a parasite explains the lack of mime with which you have managed your resources when it is up to you to govern. Of course, what I'm sure it does explain, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u87	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u88	Yes, President, I'm done now. He said that, of course, what he is sure to explain is his lack of teno when it comes to drafting tax initiatives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u89	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, for the People's Party the economic miracle was Rodrigo Rato and now the one investigated by the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and for VOX it is Spinosa de los Monteros. Let's see if it's going to turn out that between those who take it and those who don't pay it are going to teach us lessons. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Rueda, from VOX, do you know what ruins Spain? Don't pay the bills, that's what ruins Spain. Gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr. Marshal, it's not that you're bad one day, it's that yours is a trend. Who approved the 7 % tax on the value of electricity production? The People's Party. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya utters words that are not perceived]] Don't get nervous, I just started. Who approved the 5,11% electricity tax in 2013? The People's Party. Who passed the sun tax? The People's Party. And what was the sun tax? What do you call it? The solidarity tax. They wanted to charge 220 euros to the citizens who save energy, not if they were not in solidarity with the big electrics. Who approved the hydraulic cannon? The People's Party. Who increased the VAT on light to 21%? The People's Party. And now comes the rule: that of 5, the 4, and, although the 3 skipped it, it was twice the 2 and the 1. Who climbed the IRPF five times? The People's Party. Who raised corporate tax four times? The People's Party. Who double-upped VAT and IBI? The People's Party. Who raised the property tax? The People's Party. And now they come to ask the Socialist Party to lower its taxes. [[Applauds]] You say there are no tax rebates in this plan. However, 7 % of the electricity production value tax becomes zero, its excise duty of 5,11 % is at least 0,5 %, its sun tax disappears, the VAT on light is increased from 21 % to 10 %. Yesterday, a national plan was presented, with a subsidy of 20 cents per litre of petrol, protection of two million vulnerable families, a 15% increase in minimum living income, an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage and pensions, a 60% reduction in the price of light, and an 80% reduction in tolls on the electro-intensive industry. You don't think so? Don't look for any more excuses, they won't find them. [[Applauds]] You don't need to reboot, what you need is to reset. I don't know where you guys were supposed to be on Friday or where you were yesterday. Mr. Marshal, when you were in the government you lied a lot to us, to all the Spaniards. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya's denials]] But being in the opposition, taking the PNL and teaching it three times... have you read it? Excuse me? [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya: Yes, of course.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u91	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Mr. Marshal, you haven't been interrupted by anyone in the seven minutes you've had before. I ask you, please, to do the same as the other Members have done to you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u92	Thank you, President. I'm done, Mr. Marshal, don't get nervous. You've taken the PNL and taught it three times. He said that that would be the real decree if you were in the government and said that there was a rebate of 23 euros per deposit: page 9 of your GNP. Your proposal asks to reduce 17.6 cents per litre of gasoline. It's 12 euros, not 23 euros. [[Applauds]] Your proposal calls for a reduction of 9.5 cents per litre of diesel, which is 6.6 euros, and not 23. Don't lie. Or at least read the paper before you go up to this rostrum. Lately - and I'm finished - you're listening a lot to Mr. Feijoo. Friday, March 26 - listen -: 'The more difficult it is the most important moment is to have a government in which the president has the leadership, in which the ministers are solvent and in which everyone has a long experience of government'. Mr Feijóo, Mr Mariscal, gentlemen of the People's Party: we already have him, his name is Pedro Sánchez. [[Laughter in the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Applause in the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] We have a leader who, when he goes to Europe, gets European funds, mutualisation of debt, joint purchase of vaccines and now energy exceptionality, which will help reduce the price of energy. Lead, negotiate and get our country's interests to come forward. Not like you, who can't even go to Europe to an internal party meeting, because... will you let me finish? [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya's denials]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u93	Mr. Marshal, please. It's the second time he's caught his eye.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u94	Not like you, Mr Mariscal, who have given up going to Europe because you have no consideration among European leaders, because of the rapapolvo you gave them for the pact of shame by agreeing with VOX and because the European Public Prosecutor's Office is after you. [[Protests]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u95	Mr. Marshal, now you do have to talk. Does your group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u96	We're still studying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u97	Thank you so much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE IMPULSION OF RENEWABLE HYDROGEN. [[File number 162/000742]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u98	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the impulse of renewable hydrogen. Mr Renau Martínez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u99	Thank you, President. Following where my partner Montse left him, that's what's left. This week we have seen how the efforts of Pedro Sánchez have been a success in Europe. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The European Commission has acknowledged the exceptional nature of the Iberian Peninsula, yes, and this will allow us to adopt measures that would otherwise have been impossible to implement. I would already like to see the right to rejoice at the successes of this country, because this is a success for the whole country, but, well, just as it is said that we cannot ask the elm for pears, I do not think that we can ask for responsibility from this right that we have in this country. The Government is fighting for the present of our energy system, for the present of our industry, for the present of our economy, for the present of our citizenship. Today it has presented new shock measures to deal with this situation by extending the social bonus, with fiscal measures, with the reduction of tolls for the industry and reducing the costs of the electricity system, among others, and will take as many measures as is necessary because this is its commitment. In the meantime, it is up to us in this House here and now to look to the future and lay the foundations for what is to come, and that is why we are presenting this non-legislative proposal for the impulse of renewable hydrogen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living a key moment in history, and I am not referring to the pandemic, nor am I referring to the war in Ukraine, which are also, I am referring to the threat of an unprecedented crisis caused by climate change, which is clear and immediate and we can choose to face it or look elsewhere. We carry throughout the history of humanity burning things, it's our way of getting energy. We have burned wood, we have burned coal - first vegetable coal and then mineral coal -, we have burned oil, we have dedicated ourselves to burning all the petroleum derivatives we have been able to treat and we burn natural gas. Basically, we are a society that depends on fossil fuels, and I believe that none of us here are being spared the consequences that this dependence is having right now, especially for Spain. We are paying very dearly this dependence, we are paying very dearly not having been able to emancipate ourselves from fossil fuels in time. Some people are trying to say that we are paying the costs of the energy transition, but this is clearly false. What we are paying is the costs of not having been able to carry out that transition yet. The 19th century was the century of coal, the 20th century was the century of oil and the 21st century is going to be the century of hydrogen. And if we have to be completely detached from the use of fossil fuels, and this is something in which everyone, except the most rancid negatists, who also have everything, we agree, we need a substitute, which is hydrogen. This is the cleanest fuel, does not generate CO2 by producing - green hydrogen - and does not generate CO2 in its combustion. It is time to move towards the economy of hydrogen, green hydrogen, green hydrogen, green hydrogen, and I repeat this because if you think you've heard it too many times, if you think you're tired, get ready, because this is the future we're heading for. [[Applauds]] Hydrogen is not a natural resource that we can find digging on earth, such as coal, oil or natural gas. Despite being the most abundant element in the universe, which is, we do not find it in a free state on earth, it is an energy vector that must be produced. No country has any reservations about this element, and that is precisely why Spain is in an unbeatable position to become a reference, one of the world's largest producers and exporters of green hydrogen. Spain, which has always been dependent on third parties for its energy needs by importing oil, by importing natural gas, can finally achieve the much-desired energy sovereignty that we hear here so often, and not only that, because it can become an energy-exporting country. [[The lady]] Surely during the intervention shift of the rest of the groups we will hear someone say that coal is our only natural energy resource, surely others - they have done so before - give us their usual speeches on nuclear goodness. I think it is a matter of nostalgia, you want to look to the past, instead of looking to the front, instead of putting the long lights on, instead of looking for economic development for our country that does not depend on third parties. Because the reality is that Spain does have natural resources, inexhaustible by the way, that are not coal, uranium or of course oil or gas; it is the sun, it is the wind, that is the raw material that will allow us to produce green hydrogen, renewable hydrogen; the one that will allow us to carry out, at last, a true energy transition, complete, towards a world that completely leaves behind fossil fuels; the one that will allow us to channel such important investments for the industrial fabric of our country; the one that will allow us to sew our territory; the one that will allow us to create new opportunities for development as necessary, as essential as those that we are already seeing in our islands, in Balearic Islands or Canary Islands, in projects in Tarragona, in Cáceres, in Castellón, where I am, in Puertollano, where green hydrogen is a reference for our country. Spain is beginning to move in the right direction. We have a National Green Hydrogen Strategy and right now we have a PART that is going to lead us to be a reference in Europe, but it takes more, it takes much more, we need to push even more research and development. We must promote the creation of an ecosystem of innovative companies capable of generating value throughout the chain; we must improve our facilities to facilitate the development and production of green hydrogen, and we must promote the creation of an infrastructure that allows us to bring that renewable hydrogen to the rest of Europe and the rest of the world, and to do so unity is necessary, because this is a country project and because it can depend on our future. And I'm done. More than a hundred years ago there was a famous bitter controversy between Ortega and Gasset and Miguel de Unamuno, which ended with a phrase of the latter, which became also very famous, which was that of: Let them invent, that we will take advantage of their inventions. He said that precisely in the context of Europe's electricity and inventions. Don't think like Unamuno, don't think you can always be inventing or innovating others. Spain must take a step forward, Spain must move forward. We cannot always afford the same mistakes, over and over again. We were world leaders in renewables and they made us look the other way. It's been hard for us to get back on track, it's been hard for us to get back on track. Let us not mistake ourselves again with green hydrogen, with renewable hydrogen; we must take the reins and decide in which direction we want to move. We cannot and must not miss this train, because the future can be ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position at this time, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Socialist Group calls for measures already envisaged in the so-called Hydrogen Roadmap, adopted in 2020, whose objectives are not short-term because the 2030s and 2050s have been pointed out to consolidate the progress and industrial and technological positioning of the Spanish economy in the Community context. Ladies and gentlemen, here too we go as the song, slowly, at the risk of trompicons. The Government was taking such a road map with parsimony; in fact, it had been unable to set dates for establishing the different sectoral and cross-cutting areas and regulatory instruments, as well as those relating to the drive for research and development, R & D. What is proposed is not understood from the removal of the limitations to the development of renewable hydrogen and dimension large projects that are already selected, a case that has been qualified by the International Renewable Energy Agency as the largest global project, which drives the Association of Large Private Enterprises, formed earlier this year to manage the development, financing and construction of infrastructures for the production and supply of green hydrogen and its industrial exploitation, with Asturias as one of its epicentres. I have entrusted support for these types of projects and their reindustrialisation effect, as well as for the compensation of jobs, which unfortunately was disheartened by the technological transition towards this new productive model. Mr Renau pointed out coal, which is actually the only fossil fuel we have in Spain. The Government closed the mines, condemned the basins, closed the thermal power plants and now we have to import coal. Do you know where? From Russia; from Russia, indeed. Make him look at it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u103	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here again with a non-law proposal full of good intentions, the same as the amendments, but which will have no more practical effect, which will not go beyond what the Government is currently doing. And I think it is necessary to remember here that renewable hydrogen or green hydrogen manufacturing technology, as it is also called, is expensive technology and actually only solves the problem of storage and not that of generation itself. At the moment it is only clearly justified when in that process additional chemical by-products are obtained, such as in Cantabria with the Bondatti factory, which is in Torrelavega, in the Solvay complex, and I take the opportunity to say here today that, in addition to these long-term actions, we must not forget to act in the short term, and to solve the problem of storage we have at present some technology with a greater degree of maturity. For example, in Cantabria we are awaiting a large investment of Repsol in the reversible hydraulic power plant of Aguayo, which could have a great increase in this storage capacity and which needs support, as well as the project of a company, Highview Power, which has a project of liquid air storage that is also at this time much more mature and should be supported without delay. Initiatives like this are welcome. The Government of Cantabria has clearly acted on hydrogen in its plans and I believe that, in addition to supporting them, we must remember that we are still waiting for some calls that have been made, that in addition to being very scarring and scarce they are precisely covered by European funds, so we must urge the Government to resolve them as soon as possible. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u105	Thank you, President. Capitalism is a system that needs to continue to grow infinitely around, or at least around, that fetish figure of 3% per year. But that is impossible since the planet is finite, the scientists who were commissioned by the report on the limits of growth warned fifty years ago, but during this half century no measures have been taken to mitigate the end of the era of cheap and abundant oil, and an emergency brake will increasingly be needed. On the contrary, fueling this optimism, which is also what the European Union is doing with the funds, is a way of refuting this scientific evidence from the limits of growth. It is an acrylic, scientific and self-contained option to think that everything that now moves the diesel will be able to move the electricity or this new energy unicorn that is the green hydrogen. The truth is that of the literality of the GNP no one can be against it, nor can he be against the green hydrogen, but it must be taken into account whenever it is not an energy source - it has already been said - is the result of a physical or chemical reaction on water and therefore implies an energy cost, which applies to water, an energy cost that will always be higher than the energy that is obtained from burning this hydrogen obtained through the reaction. Therefore, hydrogen will not allow us to continue to grow and it is also difficult to transport and difficult to store. That goes also for those who want to impose the Midcat pipeline on us saying they can add a pipe for green hydrogen. We are in the usual situation, we are imposing an energy decrease and it is better that it is fair and planned, and not that it is directed by private capital and in a save who can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u107	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Renau, good afternoon. It draws my attention to the fact that you have come up to the rostrum to tell us the same story that the President wanted to tell us about the European Council. We know perfectly well that at the European Council, President Sánchez has achieved nothing new, that all he had already approved, that there has been no regulatory change in energy, and that what they want is to raise a smokescreen. [[Applauds]] Not a single change, Mr. Renau, and you know it. The proof of this is that the new and forthcoming measures that Minister Ribera is going to implement will be sent back to Brussels. For what? To be given permission. Therefore, absolutely nothing has been brought from the European Council. And now we will talk about the green hydrogen strategy, which I also tell you that you know that for Citizens it is very important, you know it because a year ago we presented a non-law proposal in the Ecological Transition Commission, a GNP very similar to that which the Socialist Party brings us today. And it's funny for me to say that Spain must move forward. No; Citizens moved forward, a year ago we presented a non-law proposal similar to this and the transaction I love with you, trading it with Unidad Podemos and there were many parties that supported it. [[applause]] Of course it is important, and we will support this, but let it be clear that Spain is ahead when Citizens are ahead, because we have been presenting this non-law proposal for a year now. We believe that the green hydrogen strategy is essential at the moment, it is a vector of impulse itself of renewable energies, which require greater deployment for their generation. But, above all, it is a guarantee of energy independence, as the resources required are better distributed than natural gas and does not depend on third countries. It should not be forgotten that the gas infrastructure can easily be adapted to hydrogen, so the gas interconnections that Spain needs as urgently as the Midcat can be reused to replace natural gas with hydrogen. That is why my group has tabled various proposals aimed at encouraging the development of technology in our country, and that is why we have tabled a number of amendments, because we believe it would be important to take one more step; since the Government does not do so, we will do so. We all know the great challenge facing renewable hydrogen, which remains that of its price. It is therefore vital to invest now in the deployment of this technology in order to further reduce its costs and create green jobs in a rapidly expanding sector. But to achieve this it is not enough to invest in technical applications of renewable hydrogen, it is also essential to instill two basic principles throughout the value chain: traceability and additionality. That is why we want our amendment to complement and improve what has already been said about the loss of renewable energy, renewable hydrogen and storage, as well as the rest of the loss. This is particularly important for sectors where hydrogen will be the most viable, if not the only, option in the medium term, such as aviation or aviation. In this respect, our amendment proposes to boost new business clusters for sustainable aviation, as the concentration of the sector can facilitate the development of hydrogen. In short, Spain must take advantage of its situation in order to compete for the medium term as an international hub for renewable hydrogen. It is true that other countries in the world offer lower costs than Spain; however, at European Union level, our country is by far the most competitive place to produce renewable hydrogen because of its unique climatic conditions. That is why Spain must compete at national level with this double base. We have know-how, infrastructure, legal certainty and the impetus of European Union plans, and we have the climate conditions, the availability of space and the competitive costs that other European Union countries do not have. What's missing? Real impetus from the Government. That is why we believe that perhaps on this occasion this non-legislative proposal has more opportunities and we think it would be important for them to accept some of our amendments because they improve considerably. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Errás Pabon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u109	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies. This government has already managed to make us here today, in this Chamber, part of 10% of the Spaniards who can afford to have their home at a more or less decent temperature, at a temperature comparable to that which we also have in this Chamber, about 27 degrees, 27 comfortable degrees which allow us to be here today, in this Chamber, practically in short sleeves. [[shows a thermometer]] [[Applauds]] We can be here practically in short sleeves while millions of Spaniards in their homes can't turn on the heating. That is why you legislate as you legislate, because you do not suffer the consequences of your ideological and sectarian policies, it is the Spaniards who bear them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have gas deposits in Spain for over 40 years; we have the world's second largest uranium reserves; we have in the Canary Islands the world's largest deposits of telurium, a key mineral for solar energy, but what is the government doing? The Government prohibited by law the exploitation of that gas; the Government prohibited by law the exploitation of that uranium for nuclear energy, and the Government de facto handed over the canary deposits to Moroccan expansionism. [[Applauds]] How long does the megawatt/hour have to come, gentlemen of the government, for you to react at once? And, by the way, the gas that Spain will receive from the United States is the result of fracking, which is forbidden in Spain, also for you. The energy we receive from France and Morocco, produced with nuclear and coal, is generated with the same power stations that you here today close and demonize every day. And says the PSOE spokesman that we have to abandon fossil fuels as soon as possible. Yeah, to make a difference, of course. [[Applauds]] They want to abandon them to import them, because they do not think enough of the energy dependence that we have already suffered in Spain - 75% - a tremendously high energy dependence and that because of this government we will be able to increase and worsen, a dependence that impoverishes us and weakens us as a nation. We are beating all the records, ladies and gentlemen, including the index of misery in the developed world, where we already occupy the first place, because with this government we have the highest inflation in our history, the highest public debt in our history, the most expensive bill of light in our history. By the way, are you also going to put all this in Pedro Sánchez's new Netflix series? I'm sure you do, aren't you? [[Applauds]] But let's talk about energy, don't let me sleep here with the summery temperature we have in the Chamber. It is good to facilitate the development of hydrogen in Spain; of course, it improves and diversifys our energy sovereignty. Making the most of all our resources strengthens us as a nation and it is also vital to put them at the service of Spain and the Spaniards to defend ours. Because if we were to depend on our own, ladies and gentlemen, we would not be so foolish as to be the only country that by law prohibits the exploitation and research of its own resources, wasting enormous productive potential, causing a possible shortage of raw materials for industry and causing even more misery to all Spaniards. If we depended on it, this government would not be flying thermal power plants in the midst of an energy crisis to kneel down to climate fanaticism, which threatens our rural world and our industry. Sidef Let's say ours, ladies and gentlemen, it will not give more than EUR 20 billion to its gender ideology while giving 20 cents per litre to our transporters, who just want to work. [[applause]] And, above all, we would not have reached this situation of national crisis to which all of you have led us. How many demonstrations with almost half a million people need to start working and offer solutions to the Spaniards? But, of course, all the protesters are now of the far right, ladies and gentlemen; now if you fight for your children's bread this government points you to the ultra and the facha. Do you know what kind of ultras we are in VOX? We are ultras in demanding urgent solutions to the misery that you provoke; we are ultras in demanding an immediate reduction of taxes on electricity and hydrocarbons, and we are ultras in advancing our energy sovereignty and in ensuring the transparency of every public euro invested, as we have already proposed in our amendments, to which, of course, as VOX puts it, you will vote against, even if you are of full common sense. And, finally, ladies and gentlemen, the only shock plan that works in this country is for you to resign as a bloc and do it now. Call for general elections now. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Gago Bugarín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u111	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before going into the background of this non-energy bill, it is impossible for me not to start by solidifying myself, it is impossible for me not to start by reminding myself of the millions of Spaniards who have been stunned during these weeks when they have had to see this government enriching their public coffers while they are impoverishing themselves by filling their deposits and paying up to 250 million euros only with the tax on hydrocarbons; solidaritying ourselves, Mr Renau, with the tens of thousands of companies, of SMEs who have had to see how other countries in our environment, such as France, have been making decisions for weeks to contain the rise in energy prices and, therefore, of inflation, while here the Spaniards continued to wait for Mr Sánchez to make decisions, admit and take into account his own powers to lower the electricity tariff, fuels and ultimately to stop raising more with the money of the Spaniards. There is a maximum that is always fulfilled and the political left of our country never wants to see: in times of crisis, enrichment of the public arks is equal to impoverishment of the citizens. Therefore, my first words here today are to show my solidarity, to show the solidarity of my parliamentary group with all the Spaniards, who have been stunned - as I said - and economically maimed at the inaction of this government. Having said that, in the People's Parliamentary Group - we have already said so; we have defended it - we fully support, we agree that renewable hydrogen is called to be a key energy vector in the pursuit of climate neutrality by 2050 and in the decarbonisation of the intensive industry, of air, sea, rail, heavy long-distance transport, as well as is key to energy storage. We agree that renewable hydrogen provides a greater degree of manageability, allows us to reduce national energy dependence, allows us to significantly reduce pollutant emissions and greenhouse gases and, ultimately, allows us to decarbonize sectors that are very complicated. We therefore agree with the potential that our country has to position itself as a technological benchmark in production, in transport, in the distribution of renewable hydrogen; but, gentlemen of the Government, there is one thing that also happens and that is a reality, and that is that time is passing and the competition of other countries is advancing. We cannot be here today, in March 2022, in the parliamentary seat to make summaries of road maps that have been presented a year and a half ago, we cannot be here again having a parliamentary debate on something that we have already done in the Ecological Transition Commission a year ago, as the spokesman for Citizens reminded him well; we cannot be here talking about hydrogen as if it were a GNP flower power. It is urgent, first of all, to land once and for all the Hydrogen Roadmap in a bill, and that is what we have done in the People's Parliamentary Group, that is what we have done since the opposition, imagine if we get to be in the government. You present a Hydrogen Roadmap from the government and we present a bill from the opposition. That is the difference: a road map from the Government; a bill from the opposition. Two different ways to take responsibility, Mr Renau. The definitive expansion of the production chain and the value of renewable hydrogen requires a legal regulatory framework that provides legal certainty, defines actors, defines their competences, defines activities and defines authorisations, among other necessary areas. Secondly, it is also essential to adopt a legal framework for the system of guarantees of origin for renewable gases. Only seven days ago they just presented a road map, this time of biogas; it has been on public display since November, they have had a proposal for the certification of systems of guarantee of origin of renewable gases and they are still unable to carry it out, when it should have already been approved at least two years ago. Question: How is it possible that countries like Germany have 11,000 biogas and biomethane plants and we do not reach 5% when in Spain we are agriculture and when we have the greatest possible resource for the circular economy, which is to convert waste into energy? Second question: how is it possible that the largest biomethane plant in Spain, the Valdemingómez plant, which is located here in the Community of Madrid, is selling biomethane to other countries and cannot sell it in Spain? Do you know why, Mr. Renau? Because there is no legal text to certify the guarantees of origin. Finally, gentlemen of the Government, Mr Renau, Mr Uralde, Podemos, PSOE, if this debate were to take place in another area today to confirm initiatives, to define legal frameworks, to bet coherently and rationally on the development of hydrogen, we would be welcoming today the fact that there is certainly unanimity in this non-law proposal; however, unfortunately, if you do not accept the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u112	Mr. Gago, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u113	... if they do not define the legal frameworks - term, president -, if they do not bet and speed up the processing of PERTE, if they do not make real decisions, competitiveness in the development of hydrogen will be undermined to the detriment of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Gago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u115	Thank you, President. Really, with all the affection for Mr Germán Renau, today I think it is up to you to defend a proposal that, of course, is purely government marketing; indeed, when you came up here, you sold us the goodness or the success of the President in Europe. It's also logical for you. He has also told us that they are fighting for industry, and I would really like to tell you that last week this group brought here a motion with concrete measures for industry that perhaps could have supported a little more, because many measures did not need European authorisation, except one that was the decoupling of gas, which we will see how it remains or if it is going to apply at the moment. As I was saying, it is a PERTE strategy that I really think is a bit of marketing, because you already have a strategy and you have a PETE in renewable energies, renewable hydrogen and storage, and the issues raised here should be included in that PART and in that planning with milestones and objectives, and where private public collaboration, research and synergies with companies should be fundamental, in addition to a legal framework. And that is why it is difficult for me to understand that a number of partial measures have been introduced today which can contribute - yes - to renewable hydrogen and to the ecological transition, but which must be included in that LOSS, because otherwise they would be telling us that the PART, perhaps, is biased or is not entirely planned. As far as I know, I believe that there are 25 transformative measures, accompanying measures, as well as a follow-up to it. That is why it seems to me that what you bring here today is a filling LNG, as I said, to make marketing a technology - that is - that it will transform the economy and that it will change the form of production and, also, even the formation of people, and I am surprised. We, of course, will not have to be convinced of the issue of renewable hydrogen or green hydrogen, because we have a Basque hydrogen strategy with 124 organisations, companies, technology centres and institutions. That is why we have to do it with facts, with dates, with actions and not, perhaps, with a GNP, which is fine, but which only serves as advertising. We will surely abstain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u117	Thank you, President. In the last few weeks, in Catalonia, we have seen the SEAT battery loss for electric vehicles pass by, which has gone to Sagunto, and the first green hydrogen loss - Catalina is called -, which has gone to Aragon. According to the Government's plans, there were two Green Hydrogen PERTEs with €400 million as a whole. So, in Together we continue to defend energetically and energetically the Vall de l'Hidrogen Verd Catalunya Sud project of Tarragona for many reasons. Because it is an opportunity for the future; the International Energy Agency, in its notes, predicts that by 2050 25% of the energy consumed in Europe will come from clean hydrogen. Because it is an opportunity, too, for Catalonia, as it represents the best possible enclave for green hydrogen, as it has close industry and heavy vehicles that may need green hydrogen as fuel and also has a great potential exporter. But we're going for points. First, it considers green hydrogen as an ally in the decarbonization of the industry, as it can be used directly as fuel in thermal energy intensive processes that are difficult to electrify. Secondly, it is considered as a raw material because Catalonia has the most important petrochemical pole in southern Europe, which is a large hydrogen consumer: seven tons per hour, almost one hundred and seventy tons per day. The companies grouped together by the Association Empresarial Química de Tarragona produce 25% of the chemicals consumed by Spain and 50% of those consumed by Catalonia. Third, the AEQT has close to the ports of Tarragona and Barcelona in addition to the airport of El Prat, in which very heavy long-haul vehicles - ships, aircraft, heavy land transport - will be able to use green hydrogen as fuel. But, in addition, the port infrastructure offers a great potential exporter for clean hydrogen that must be complemented, and we say complementary because we have to have a great infrastructure to correct an absurd situation. The Spanish state is the one that has the most regasification plants, six of the twenty-two in Europe, but there is no interconnection with it. The Midcat must be activated now, and not just thinking about the gas that comes to us from Algeria and that we can send to the European Union, but thinking about the green hydrogen that Catalonia is going to produce to export. Germany supports the Midcat, and that has already partly paid for the construction of the Nord Stream to import gas from Russia. Now it turns out that the south also exists. What is urgently needed? Let the bureaucracy not kill the projects. Right now, for bureaucratic and legislative reasons, gas pipelines allow only 5 % of hydrogen to be injected to protect consumption points, such as boilers, but in France they increased to 10 % years ago. It is technically feasible, as the more biomethane or hydrogen green gas is injected into a pipe the lower costs for the final consumer. We are talking about a reduction of almost 50% in the price of natural gas. And there is yet another reason for weight: greater energy independence. To further open the green hydrogen handle it is necessary to legislate, to facilitate the processing of new green hydrogen projects it is necessary to legislate and to speed up the processing of associated projects it is necessary to legislate. This is the case for biomethane plants produced from the treatment of urban waste and animal production farms. Biomethane is produced from the solid fraction of the residue, but in the circular economy we are obliged to take advantage of the water of the liquid fraction. How? By producing green hydrogen with electrolyzers that could be manufactured in the territory, favoring reindustrialization, and that would use as renewable electricity production energy. So please push forward the necessary legislation to give gas to the projects and let us use the European funds to transform effectively. We have taken note of the measures to facilitate the channelling of renewable gases that Minister Teresa Ribera announced this afternoon, and we have also taken note of today's date. Now it's about not losing a minute. It has taken a month to make public the measures following the hyperscale of energy prices as a result of the Putin war. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u118	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u119	It's been a month. It is now difficult to trust you to be diligent, but we hope that you will, please, put into effect the legislation that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u121	Mrs. Calvo has left me a part of her speech, but it's just that I make it mine for the most part. [[Referring to a folio that Mrs Calvo Gómez has left in the speaker's rostrum]] I'll give it to you later. Gentlemen of the PSOE, Mr Renau, I wish to express my disappointment. One would expect a slightly more worked-out, slightly more intense, somewhat more detailed initiative from the main party that supports the Government in such an important area - never as we have seen these days - as is the energy dependency. You present a GNP on the promotion of absolutely decaffeinated renewable hydrogen. [[Show a document]] I must confess that reading your GNP is short. I think you and I in one afternoon are able to fill both sides of this leaflet and we don't reach a third. It's clearly better. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u123	The starting point is that hydrogen is a versatile, non-polluting energy vector. From hydrogen you can obtain electrical, mechanical or thermal energy with high yields and zero CO2 emissions, since its use only produces water. Where do we go from? An energy dependence of the Spanish State, a dependence on fossil fuels and an urgent need for research and development of technologies. Here I would like to stress the importance of European funds and to avoid their dissipation for reasons of a curious territorial redistribution that will have to be detailed some day. In no case do we deny the multiple potentialities of green hydrogen. In fact, many have been detailed this afternoon. We believe in them so much in Catalonia that the Government of which we are part and which we perceive is giving support to projects for the generation and use of hydrogen of renewable origin. In this sense, works have been developed by the Taula de l'hydrogen in the Energy Transition of Catalonia, which will generate a set of proposals for projects related to green hydrogen. The Government, through the Directorate General de Industria, de Acción y del Institut Català d ́Energia supports these initiatives to stimulate the participation of companies and to ensure that they are included in calls for support with European funds Next Generation. On the other hand, Catalonia's energy foresight work to the 2050 horizon, PROENCA 2050, developed by the mentioned ICAEN - recently presented by the Consellera d'Acció Climàtica, Alimentació i Agenda Rural -, includes hydrogen as an energy vector that will participate in the energy transition, prioritizing its use in heavy transport and in the decarbonization of thermal industrial processes of difficult electrification. For this reason, two weeks ago President Aragonès and Councillor Torrent were on an institutional journey to Germany to expand Germany's institutional and economic ties with Catalonia. As part of this trip, they met with the President of Baden-Württemberg and agreed to set up a working group on green hydrogen with the aim of sharing experiences and strategies of the two territories. It's nothing like what you've told us. What are you doing, more than delaying debates and repeating everything? This interaction becomes annoying, and more so in the moments we meet. To conclude, please, Mr Renau, and meeting us as we meet, I would like to underline a lack. We forgot to mention the pipeline to export in the NLP.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u124	Mr. Capdevila, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u125	Fourteen years of the Midcat parking lot. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u126	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This GNP intersects with two elements that are strategic. The first is the fight against climate change, which is the greatest challenge facing humanity in the twenty-first century. There is a war between capitalism and climate, and the consequences are rising from temperatures, sea level, desertification, greenhouse gases, soil and water pollution, etc. Secondly, the need for our country to address a shift in a productive model that advocates re-industrialisation. Economies with a strong industry have greater capacity to withstand crises. In addition, industry generates jobs of higher quality and stability than other sectors. The GNP also interferes with the contents of the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy, adopted by the Council of Ministers. Specifically, a country that respects the limits of the planet, establishes the need to address the energy transition with guarantees and from planning frameworks, to the extent that three out of every four tons of greenhouse gas emissions originate in the energy system. The priorities for action set include the renewable hydrogen road map to boost the deployment of hydrogen generated from renewable energy sources, an energy vector that will be key to decarbonising sectors that are difficult to decarbonise. It is also important for regions and territories that have been deindustrialization and I set the example of Asturias and Andalusia. The case of Asturias, which is the world's largest renewable hydrogen project, according to the International Renewable Energy Agency itself, is a project that seeks to achieve 6.6 million tonnes of green hydrogen over the next two decades, avoiding 4% of carbon dioxide emissions and also supplying the equivalent of 5% of imported natural gas, which is essential to ensure energy sovereignty. It is therefore an ambitious project to develop green hydrogen, facilitate its transport and take advantage of it for the industrial sector. This hydrogen could be used, for example, to supply the plant of Fertiberia in Avilés, the factory of ArcelorMittal in Avilés and Gijón. As a result, Asturias is a territory that combines the right characteristics to produce green hydrogen for its resources, its industrial tradition, its trained working class and its universities. I would also like to highlight a project in Andalusia, particularly in the Campo de Gibraltar, in Cadiz, to which the Government is going to allocate more than 4 million tonnes to generate more than 135 000 tonnes of green hydrogen from waste and waste water in the municipality of Algeciras. The innovative nature of this project is to focus research on technologies that allow the production of hydrogen through wastewater or sludge from sewage treatment plants. This is a very important project in a territory such as the Campo de Gibraltar, which is experiencing the strong paradox of having the largest industrial pole in Andalusia accompanied by high rates of inequality and unemployment. One of the ways to correct this problem is to engage the region in innovative, high-value-added production processes that help to boost the economy and generate employment. This GNP therefore contributes to meeting the goal of the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy. Finally, a review. I have been listening to the various groups, we are the last to intervene, and there are no public companies, no group has regretted the lack of public companies. During the pandemic we have seen the importance of the public and the State to save lives with public health, to buy vaccines from the State and to protect our people on health rather than income criteria, or to protect 3.6 million jobs from the State, through the ERTE, or 1.5 million jobs from self-employed people, through cessation aid. Therefore, the State has put in place resources to protect and we understand that the strategic sectors of the economy have to be public in order to obey the general interest. Well, analysts estimate that 24% of the energy will come from hydrogen in 2050. They would be sales in excess of EUR 630 billion per year.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u128	Mr. Bustamante, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u129	Yeah, I'm done. In the project that talked about Asturias, thirty companies participate, no public. We will therefore continue to work because it is essential for this country to have a large public energy company. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u130	Thank you, Mr. Bustamante. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Renau, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u131	No, you will vote on your terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u132	All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u133	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the elimination of the mandatory use of masks in interiors. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u134	Thank you, President. In the debate that bears fruit of this motion of urgent interpellation, which I had last week with the Minister of Health, one thing became clear to us: the mask inside remains mandatory because the Government is waiting for an ideal political moment to eliminate it, not a scientific moment, not a health moment, an ideal political moment; they are not expecting any change in the indicators that we are using to control the evolution of the pandemic, because that change is no longer going to occur, that change is very gradual. There is not going to be a knee moment when it is decided that it is already time to eliminate the mandatory mask inside. The argument. The Minister of Health said that the mask exerts a barrier effect at the time of infection of COVID, and she is right. He also stated that this barrier effect is the reason why, today, the mandatory mask inside is maintained; and this is where his argument makes water. If we make this reasoning ours and consider that the mask inside must remain mandatory while exercising the barrier effect, I tell you when they are suppressed, never. The mask will always be a barrier against VID-19, against flu, against colds, against pollution, against allergies. The question is the balance between the restriction imposed and the damage that is avoided, because a mask will always avoid something. We could also drive cars with plate armor or walk down the street with helmet. Everything's safe. The issue is balance. Thanks to vaccination, COVID runs lightly in a very large majority of cases. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group, contrary to what many other groups have done during the pandemic, has acted at all times with responsibility, purpose and a sense of state. In this House we have had to eat attitudes that, as Colonel Trautman would say by describing John Rambo in Acourralado, would make a goat vomit, from the nationalists calling to cough in the face the soldiers who cleaned the streets or to claim that in an independent Catalonia there would be fewer deaths, to those who claimed that euthanasia was applied by the way of events in the homes of the elderly or also those who began by saying that the legislative apparatus that existed was perfectly sufficient to deal with the pandemic and that today we are being asked for a new law on pandemics. Here he has also played with the dead, attributing the deaths to the Government of Spain or the autonomous community according to the parties that make up the governments of these communities. There is only one party that did not enter this spiral of misery, only one - there are the hemerotecs, there are the sitting papers - and that party is Citizens. With this service sheet throughout the pandemic that I am presenting to you today, with this attitude throughout the pandemic, often saving the measures of the Government that others, on political grounds, were willing to fall with the cost of many lives and of the health security of all citizens, in Citizens we have made it clear that no party, none, is worth a life; that no demoscopic growth, none, is worth the health of a person. I recognize that my perception of politics and what some are capable of doing for growing up electorally at times have left me desolate, and at times I have come to reflect on how it has taken hold in this Chamber, again, the strain of Cain. I tell you all this because in Citizens we have never frivolized with the pandemic, and if we come here today to ask for the suppression of the mandatory use of masks inside is because we know that it is the time that can be done. We know that if it is not suppressed it is for reasons other than sanitary reasons, because we know that there will be no sudden change in an indicator that implies the removal of the mandatory mask inside. The instructions that have already been given to primary care treat COVID-19 as a mild disease, where exceptionality is when it occurs in a serious way. Moreover, what prevents this primary care, which is going to say that it is kept or not quarantined depending on the symptoms, from indicating whether to use the mask or not individually, since everything else is going to be individualized? The very monitoring of the pandemic data is a consequence of its mildness, mildness that is the result of successful and massive vaccination, mildness that should be linked all the time to vaccination. One of the best ways to boost the doses of memory, which for various reasons are being less successful than the previous ones, would be to announce the removal of the mandatory mask inside linking directly to vaccination, because it is also the truth. All this is happening and we have come to this point thanks to vaccination. One of the best ways to deal with anti-scientific movements is that the restrictions are the minimum possible, that the damage they cause is always less than the damage they avoid; let's not force people to absurdly walk the bar from a bar without a mask while you drink the beer, put it in to go to the bathroom and go back and remove it again. We're not at that point anymore. Now what is avoided is no worse than what is produced with the mandatory mask inside. The damage today due to the mandatory mask inside affects, for example, mental health. The bloodiest case is that of the children. There are many professionals who warn of the damage the mask does to children. Children under the age of two have seen very few complete faces, at a time when they are learning to interpret people's faces. The children of three and four have spent more than half their lives learning a faceless world, a world of masks. The mask made sense when it saved lives, the mask made sense when it avoided a serious illness, there was no doubt about the need for the mask at that time. The mask makes no sense when the disease runs, most of the time, mild. I'm on my way, President. Now the mild course disease; Spain has fulfilled, comply with Spain, suppress today the obligatory mask inside. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position on this occasion, Mrs Cañadell Salvia, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u136	Thank you very much, President. Today, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group again insists on the elimination of the compulsory use of masks in interiors and in PeCAT we repeat the same thing we told them at the plenary session last March 10: we share the background, but not the form. It is true that we are already at a stage of the pandemic where the elimination of the latest restrictions or measures, as many countries in our environment have already done, must be considered. However, the removal of the mask in the interiors cannot be done in a homogeneous and generalized way, as the impact of the pandemic varies in each territory by multiple variables. In the same way as the escalation in restrictions was heterogeneous, depending on the measures that the health authorities of each autonomous community considered in relation to their indicators, the descalation should also be so. It is true that, at least, this motion does not play such a secondary role as that given to the Inter-Territorial Health Council in the text of the amendment as a whole. It is the autonomous communities that must ultimately decide on the descalation in the use of masks in order to accommodate it to the demographic and social characteristics of each territory, and not eliminate them throughout the State as is apparent from the operative part of this motion. It is the Autonomous Communities that have the competence in health and primary care and, if we believe in co-governance, a measure of such magnitude must be taken by their hand. Finally, I would like to inform you that, through my speech, the amendments tabled by More Country are being defended and that we hope to set our position on the basis of the amendments that will be incorporated into the text of the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u138	With all due respect, Madam President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. To the motion presented today Citizens by his lordship Don Guillermo Díaz passes as to the urgent inquiry he presented: it is a little decorated. The interpellation was a feignment, a kind of penguinella duo, in the same way that this motion becomes foam based on conditionals that you have hidden, Mr. Díaz. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the foam of the rivers to ask to eliminate the obligatory masks inside, conditioning to the epidemiological situation and the comparative perspective That is what the Government already does, which does everything with a gender perspective, sustainable, resilient, incomprehensible and, above all, cursi. [[ccccccccc]] [[Applauds]] It is a futility, it is utopian and it is childish to ask the interterritorial council to make a calendar of descalation. Our amendment is simple. It urges the Government to withdraw the compulsory use of masks in all areas and at any age - please release our children - except within health and social health facilities, and this only until it is essential. [[Applauds]] I'm pointing out some things we've learned from the coronavirus. The first, which is unpredictable, so the second point of the petitum is unacceptable by coercion and absurd by irresistible. It is impossible to advance a calendar of descalation exposures when we do not know how long the epidemic is going to last, whether it is going to turn into an endemic or if omicron is going to be the penultimate or the penultimate variant. The second is about masks, and he cited the one that is possibly the best university center of epidemiology in the United States, the Minnesota CIDRAP. First, it says that the fabric masks have almost no utility with the omicron variant and, second, that there is no solid evidence of the utility of the mask against any variant in any environment, except for the FFP2 and FFP3 masks in health and social health environments. Do not misrepresent the recommendations of ECDC or WHO; they are recommendations, not obligations. In the last update of the ECDC of 7 February at no time do they advocate that they be mandatory; moreover, as an alternative, they put them only for vulnerable people and for vulnerable centers. See if it is useless to force to wear the mask that has recently been published this COVID notebook made by twenty-five Spanish scientists, all very politically correct - that is, on this side - and of twenty-five chapters none is intended for masks, none. [[shows a document]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment public health recommendation messages should emphasize the extent to which they have a higher hierarchy of effectiveness: vaccination; otherwise not. All restrictive measures imposed by the Government since the proclamation of the declared state of alarm contrary to the Constitution through VOX must therefore be dropped. I'm on my way. We therefore reject the impositions that are imposed on the population when our fellow citizens need recommendations that adapt to the changing reality of the epidemic. We refuse to have the children gagged. We are disgusted by what a socialist MEP has revealed today in the Committee on Health: that one reason for maintaining the mandatory masks is because they have eliminated isolation for the infected. What a shame! What a shame! We are disgusted that the obligatory masks force the Spaniards to choose between masks and heating. It disgusts us and we say that's enough. [[Applauds]] What we need in Spain at the present time is continuous, true and verifiable information about the epidemic to provide citizens with sufficient knowledge to take informed measures to protect their health, that of their own people and their economy. I am sorry to repeat what I said in the Health Committee a few hours ago. I'm sorry because you can give the impression that we believe that on the sides of the sinister and separatists do not understand either our sources, Mrs Andres, or our arguments. I'm so sorry. Nothing closer to reality: they don't understand them. I'm done. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u139	Thank you, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Pastor Julián. [[Rumors]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here this afternoon because it seems that the Citizens' Group is concerned that the Government is announcing the removal of masks inside for political convenience - and I quote your words - and not for scientific reasons. I am afraid that in this debate on masks political interest is taking precedence in many groups, regardless of the opinion of the experts or the interest of the health of the Spaniards. Unfortunately, that position has also been observed in the proposing group. For you, liberalism consists in reducing the safety distance by two and a half meters or eliminating the obligatory use of masks in interior spaces, and, by the way, drawing revenue from the two ads. But no, ladies and gentlemen. Society is tired - we already know -, we are very tired of the limitations caused by COVID and one of them is wearing the mask. Of course! You even want to go out to the rostrum, even if it's just for having a few minutes without a mask. But to make this El Tirazgo the only political objective in the field of health seems to me to be barbaric. [[Applauds]] They're mingling with the people they're so critical of. We already know the usual practice of the socialist bench, of the socialist government: to use these issues as a propaganda tool. They told the Spaniards that the masks had given way to the smiles, when the only ones who smiled were those of the pardons. Do you remember? They did it again with labor reform. They kept trying the other day, when the minister said that removing the masks is close, which is already closer. And I wouldn't be surprised if Mr. Sanchez would tell us to take off our masks tomorrow. They've got us used to this. But no, ladies and gentlemen, this is much more serious and I understand the fight against COVID as a struggle in which all the instruments that scientists and technicians say are the right instruments at every moment are put in. That is why we have tabled amendments to this text. By the way, there are amendments that have to do with this country's health policy, because after two years we have not been able - or have not been able - to have an instrument to deal with the pandemics of the future. [[Applauds]] We have not set up a public health agency, when the Commission for Reconstruction came to a majority agreement here, and we are going to ask the minister to appear in plenary to explain why they have not been complied with. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many things that need to be done, but very few want to do them. In my group we will continue to work. We have tabled amendments that seek to strengthen the country's health system to make us stronger and more powerful, because viruses, bacteria and microorganisms are campaigning for their respect. Lose it. Today we have more than 400 cases of 14 days of incidence per 100,000 inhabitants, and we are therefore responsible for not taking measures that we have no reports of. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am very drawn to the attention of a motion where they say one thing and the other. How is that possible, ladies and gentlemen? On the one hand, they say: eliminate the mandatory use of masks inside in line with scientific evidence. On the other hand, in the following point they say: to establish in an agreed manner in the interterritorial council all the containment measures of the pandemic, including the masks. Either it's point one or it's point two, or we either delete the two or we delete the one. Well, we've eliminated one, ladies and gentlemen, because there's no scientific report that says masks have to be removed. [[Applauds]] Scientists know what they're saying. The truth is that decisions have been made in the country that we will never forget. As you know, we came to the Chamber without mask - only two people were wearing masks - because they said, Mrs Olona, that it was not necessary, when many deaths could have been avoided. That barrier effect, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, of course it is a fantastic effect on health, and do not worry because I will always be defending the health of the Spaniards, but above all paying attention to what scientists and experts say. But, of both making political decisions - so much so - we have forgotten that we are talking about the health of the Spaniards, that we are talking about the health of the country, and today we are just like two years ago, because we have not made legislative decisions. We don't have a real independent public health agency.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u141	Mrs. Pastor, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u142	It's over now. Moreover - a very important question - today we have an epidemiological surveillance system on which I ask you - that is not you, but the Socialist Group - do you think that we can be calm with the sentinel system we have? That is the question that the Socialist Group will have to answer. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u144	Thank you, President. Mr Steegmann, what we are ashamed of is the impulse you give the negators of vaccines, which we are ashamed of. [[Applauds]] And, Pastor, if you had developed the General Law on Public Health in your mandates and had not cut in health care, perhaps we were in better condition in our health care system. [[Applauds]] Mr Díaz, in the past plenary, the minister reproached you that, referring to the pandemic, you used the term 'propaganda' as something more peculiar to another foreign regime - Mrs Darias said, and I make her words mine - to yours and mine. Propaganda is not a pejorative term, you said, softening the definition of the RAE. But, Mr. Díaz, who used the word 'propaganda' in your most abhorrent sense was you, who in your first intervention, and with the management of the pandemic as a backdrop, claimed that the prevalence of propaganda over facts is common throughout history or that propaganda has also worked to create lies. If we add to this other fineties, such as accusing the government of an aesthetic handshake; that decisions are taken not in a Council of Ministers, but in a chamber of ministers; that the only criterion is political opportunity and not the scientific one... Anyway, Mr. Díaz, do you realize the scope of your words? Do you realize that in the biggest health crisis in recent history, put in a frivolous way - let me tell you this - you accuse the government of acting on the basis of aesthetic criteria of political opportunity or, as you say in this very motion, cosmetic criteria? Do you realize that at the same time you are also accusing the governments of the autonomous communities that are part of the interterritorial council? Do you realize that you are also attacking, Mr Díaz, all those scientists who are part of the different bodies that have advised and informed about the most appropriate health measures to protect the health of citizens? And don't tell me you haven't, at least you've accused them or you're accusing them of complicit silence, of not reporting that aesthetic, cosmetic, opportunistic measures have been taken on their behalf while people were dying. Mr. Díaz, as the minister, I also considered you and your group, and I would like it to remain so. That is why I cannot help but be surprised by a change in tone in your speeches that derails the wisdom that I want to keep putting to you - believe me -. In addition to the last question to the minister and in addition to this motion, you have presented on this same subject non-legislative proposals for the Commission and for the Plenary, a proposal for a law in which you name up to twenty-eight times the word mask and, recently, the amendment to the whole of the Royal Decree Law 30/2021. Of the whole parliamentary arc, only you voted in favour of that amendment as a whole; this should give you what to think. By the way, if you want, I'll also tell you about that bill that you've registered and that you can't stand a minute of the speech that you used to settle in. In it they claim that the declaration of the end of the health crisis situation is determined by vote here at the plenary session of the Congress. Where are the experts? Where are the scientific reports? Where's science, Mr. Díaz? Yes, I know they say in that proposal that respecting the reports of the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies and after consultation with the interterritorial council; yes, but they add that on a non-binding basis. Mr. Díaz, the pandemic arrived on this planet without an instruction manual. Science - you know it well - counted on moments of uncertainty that went down as knowledge progressed, which allowed for more and more effective action. They were measures taken, as you know, in terms of co-governance in the interterritorial council and in the Public Health Commission, but they were measures - I insist that you know it well - taken on the basis of science, scientists and experts on the subject. Here we can quote the Centre for the Coordination of Health Alerts and Emergencies, the presentation of alerts or, beyond our country, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and also - why not say - the World Health Organization itself. Mr. Díaz, about the use of masks, you are very interested in when and the minister pointed out to you in a consistent way that it does not matter so much when, but how. And how should that how and when be decided? Well, despite your explosive allegation, you yourself indicate it - and I am glad - at the first point of your motion: in line with scientific evidence, with the epidemiological situation and with the comparative perspective. The President of the Government and the Minister of Health have expressed their desire to be able to lift the measures on the masks inside, but it will be done at the precise moment and - I repeat his words - in accordance with the scientific evidence, with the epidemiological situation and with the comparative perspective of the hands of experts - and, yes - within the framework of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System to which you also refer in your text. That's how it was, that's how it will be and that's how it will be. I await your position in favour of our amendment. That's all, honey. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Meijón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]] Reviewing in the Journal of Sessions the reply of the Minister of Health to the question made to him last Wednesday by Mr Díaz Gómez, deputy of Citizens, the defachability with which the Government has intervened falsely in this House throughout the whole COVID-19 pandemic is again verified. Contrary to what Mrs. Darias said... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u148	... in its parliamentary press release, it should be remembered that the pandemic did not begin on March 11, 2020. That was the date on which the Government generalized action in the face of a contagion that had already been reported in other countries of the world and the European Union; as in the case of Italy, where disturbing information was already coming from in February about the hospital collapse in some regions and the lack of equipment, such as respirators, to care for infected persons. That the virus spread was already known in Spain, but not on March 11, but at the end of January. Let me show you the covers of some great newspapers, all dated January 31st. The World: WHO declares the international health emergency. [[shows the cover]] The Journal of Catalonia: Global emergency to stop the Chinese virus. [[shows the cover]] WHO now admits that this is an unprecedented infectious outbreak. Diario El País : WHO declares the global emergency in the face of the spread of the virus. [[shows the cover]] The body sees a need for global action after shooting the number of people affected in one week. They're all from January 31st. Diario La Reason - another cover five weeks before Sánchez's government reacts - : WHO alert, international emergency by the coronavirus. [[shows the cover]] La Vanguardia, on every page on January 31st: WHO declares global alert; includes photos of two Oriental girls with masks and protected with two transparent plastic cans as a squall. [[shows the cover]] And the last, the ABC, on every page and with an expressive graphic composition of the planet Earth with mask, also of January 31: The WHO declares the global health emergency. [[shows the cover]] Ladies and gentlemen, we could write a treaty on masks, masks and COVID-19, i.e. on the government's farce on account of one of the basic elements of protection against coronervirus infection. She recalled the contradictions about her use of different health officials, who concealed in the first weeks of the pandemic a cruel reality: Spain did not have stocks to care for its population and equip it with the barrier effect of the contagion; nor of planning for national security, since the theoretical scenario of a pandemic such as the one we suffered had not been contemplated; nor much less of the media. I will say on behalf of the responsible authorities that neither the WHO helped much to clarify the disconcert; therefore, for the future of humanity, it is essential to carry out a good global study on all that has surrounded this deadly pandemic that has done so much damage in terms of public health and that so much socio-economic ruin has caused. Today, in the confidence that we are facing the epilogue of the sixth wave of contagion, with much of the population vaccinated several times and with official indicators certifying a clearly low epidemiological situation in Spain, the initiative of the Parliamentary Citizen Group is an opportunity to strengthen the health system on the line that has suggested several groups with their amendments. In fact, this past Monday progressed in what has been called pandemic influenza, stopping counting infection cases one by one and relaxing isolation measures for mild or asymptomatic cases, measures that join the elimination of quarantine from close positive contacts. Finally, Madam President, the second of the points of the motion promotes the elaboration of a timetable of descalation, something necessary in the light of the persistent normative and administrative gallimities which, on the other hand, has been a characteristic saint and sign throughout this period of pandemic; quite the contrary to the ideal of co-governance to which Mr Meijón referred idyllically. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u150	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Steegmann, I start with you because you have described the motion that you have put forward Citizens and the debate that we are now holding as useless, childish and decorated. [[The lady]] I ask you: what are you going to vote on, Mr Steegmann? What will your parliamentary group vote on a motion that is useless, childish and decorative? I do not suppose that in any case in favour and, as soon as they have a little rigour and consistency, I suppose they will vote against it, because otherwise the vice of the initiative will also have it by the parliamentary group that supports it. Mr. Meijón, why do you dance to the water? Why do they dance the water to someone who presents an initiative like the one that has presented Citizens and who makes the speech that his spokesman has made?: The ministry is waiting for the political moment and not scientific evidence to make a public health decision. You, with your support, are you going to defend a speech that holds that? Mr. Díaz, you present your initiative and say: Remove today the obligation to use the mask inside. Tell me something. In the agreement you're going to sign, is this what you agree? Because if you don't, do you know what this debate is? A political scumbag. A political deception. [[Applauds]] You're wasting our time. By the way, there's one thing I can't afford. On behalf of other colleagues in this Congress who have been on the Health Commission when everyone was confined and have come here week after week, because it is our job, I do not allow you - of course, I do not share it and I will not let it happen - to say that all parties and spokespersons, except Citizens, have been put into a spiral of misery and that we are Cain's strain. No, no, [[Applauds]] No, no, You have entered a spiral of very dangerous populism, especially when we talk about public health, Mr Díaz. We're talking about public health. Do you believe that whatever is approved, whatever is voted here, any governor or any health authority will remove the mask because Mr. Díaz of Citizens has asked for it in Congress? Believe me, I am sure that all the health authorities, all of them, want to remove the mask, but for prudence, rigor and public health do not remove it, because it is the principle of prudence that governs their decisions, that of experts, that of scientific evidence, not that citizens come to Congress to say that we must remove it. They all want to take it off, but they want to rule responsibly, because, if not, who is going to be responsible for making an excessively quick decision? That's the big problem. Do you know the only thing that this initiative brings to a debate that is very serious and that must be governed, I insist, by the rigour, prudence and the criteria of scientific evidence with which the health authorities will make the decision? Do you know the only thing that contributes to society? Confusion, repeat, confusion. To think that, in fact, the health authorities maintain the mask because it is a political whim and because they are waiting for the political election moment to remove it... Mr Díaz, no, and you should not go along this line if you really want to have a political debate that actually brings maturity, serenity and political rigour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u152	I'm gonna do the surgery from the seat. It is true that most autonomous governments today share the need to phase out the use of masks in interior spaces in a gradual way, I repeat. In that sense, our group might agree with that initiative, but you already know that we do not consider this to be either the form or the place where this decision should be made. In the previous Royal Decree Law 30/2021 of 23 December, which provides for urgent preventive and containment measures to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19, we were very explicit in this regard. We considered this initiative by the Government to be a unilateral and meaningless decision. The return of wearing the mask on the outside to suspend then a few weeks later reached absurdity. By then we understood that it was simply an image operation. Are you, the Citizens' Group, now taking advantage of the terrain of a possible new government image operation? I have already indicated at the time that we did not agree that it is the Government of the State that regulates, by means of a royal decree, whether or not the use of masks is obligatory. In fact, once the state of alarm has been completed, responsibility for decision-making on the management of the health crisis, as well as the process of descalation, has fallen to the autonomous communities in the exercise of their powers. In this sense, we understand the management of the use of masks or not in the context of the process of descaling itself. It has no more significance than that of any other technical measure. That is why we do not understand that this should be decided here with political and non-technical criteria. In any case, the space to coordinate measures of application to a wider scope, to the whole State, already exists, and is the interterritorial council, and for this there is no need for a decree law. It already exists, it's the interterritorial council. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u154	Good afternoon. I confess I'm nervous, because this is to make people nervous. First, Citizens propose to eliminate the mandatory use of masks inside, in line with scientific evidence and the epidemiological situation. It's a phrase they don't think it's easy to understand what it means, because we don't know if the evidence is proving that the use of the mask should no longer be mandatory or that, when the evidence shows that the mask should not be used, they remove the mask. If it is the second, the motion is an exercise of futility and it does not deserve any answer, but if it is the first case, I want to point out something. I believe that the Member of Parliament for Citizens is not clear on what scientific evidence is. There are many studies in which, by their nature, it is difficult to prove that evidence. The Centre for the Analysis of Infectious Diseases in Minnesota, USA, has published the results of mask efficacy tests, in which it concludes that efficacy tests are robust for health environments - that is, they protect in health environments - but that the study is not robust for community environments. The question is clear: Why does a mask protect, is effective, in a health environment and yet the study done in a community environment is not robust, is not demonstrative? Simply because conditions change. A toilet wears the mask and does not take it away or take it here, and we all know, because it is natural, what happens in the community environment. [[pointing under the chin]] The variables are different, so the studies are not robust, but that doesn't mean that the mask doesn't prevent a contagion, it doesn't mean that. It may mean that the use of the mask is not appropriate at any given time or in some environment. What is clear is that masks are essential to avoid contagion. The second point is that a timetable should be established in an agreed manner with the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System to de-escalate all measures to contain the pandemic in order to offer certainty to families and businesses. We'll see what happens to the epidemic. Moreover, it seems that they have discovered that it does not have to be the Congress of Deputies itself that decides the descalation; it seems that they have discovered the interterritorial council and that it is in the interterritorial council that it is decided what, of course, has to be decided, and we already imagine that it will be so. There's nowhere to pick up the subject. Let us hope that you do not feel pressured by you on the interterritorial council, use your head and remove your masks when you touch. Only the evidence should be worth it. I believe that the only source of uncertainty here, generating mistrust in families, businesses and citizens in general, is Citizens. You are recalcitrant with the subject of masks in that quest for everything is worth to get whatever you want to get and that everyone here imagines what it is. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Díaz Gómez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u156	The Socialist Group's amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u157	Thank you. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to satisfy the demands of Spanish carriers. [[File number 173/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u158	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to meet the demands of Spanish carriers. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. The VOX Parliamentary Group brings a very clear, very concrete initiative. We only ask for ten points, ten very clear, concrete measures, which are absolutely acceptable to anyone who reads this text from a common sense point of view. These are measures which will benefit our carriers and which, as I say, are absolutely reasonable. First, meetings, as soon as possible, with all the representatives of the sector and take decisions in agreement with those representatives and thinking about the good of the Spanish and Spanish families; very acceptable. Preventing carriers from working below operating costs; perfectly reasonable, moreover, our unfair competition rules already establish the sale at loss as a cause of infringement of the Unfair Competition Act. To draw up a national energy sovereignty plan that will ultimately think about the well-being of the Spaniards; it has the whole meaning of the world. To make a change or to urge the European authorities to change the reduced rates of VAT which can be applied precisely to the hydrocarbons used for transport; this is an issue that has the whole meaning of the world. To promote, in turn, the reduction of taxes on hydrocarbons; we were talking about VAT and now we are talking about the excise duty on hydrocarbons. To ask, moreover, that the application of this tax be suspended on a short-term basis; it is absolutely reasonable. These are matters of absolute common sense. In addition to that, promote the creation and protection of safe parking for our carriers, which is a traditional claim of the sector; collaborate effectively so that these parkings are spread throughout the geography of Spain; forget or withdraw that announcement made by the Government to establish payment systems on all roads and all high-capacity highways in Spain. [[rumors]] The Government has already announced that it had in mind to establish toll systems on all motorways in Spain, and we ask you to contain this measure. [[Rumors]] I think it's a matter of pure common sense, there's no oven for buns. And finally, to promote the immediate return of the outstanding amount of the health cent, which is an issue that is pending in many administrations and at many levels in Spain. These are matters of absolute common sense, but when we announce these measures, when we talk about these measures that have been mentioned in earlier items of the agenda discussed today, the opposing parliamentary groups ridicule us. [[The Rumors Continue]] I will ask the Members to keep a little silence, please. [[Applauds]] I am obliged to do so to the extent that the Presidency does not say anything, please, it is that there is no one speaking here. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u160	Please be silent, please, to all groups. There are all groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u161	I hear laughter on the socialist bench, which is something that continues to impress me. I do not understand how in the face of the situation that transport in Spain is suffering you are still able to laugh. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We have talked about the measures included in this initiative throughout the day, and the parliamentary groups in this House have devoted themselves to ridiculing VOX. Basically, the Socialist Party comes and says to us: No, it's just that you're proposing to lower taxes, as if this were... where will the money come from? From where? You, Socialists, are a true example of the management of public flows, and together with you, the People's Party. I will give you the details, because this directive, the directive from which the hydrocarbon tax comes out, is adopted in 2003. In 2003, for an idea to be made, the diesel was at 70 cents; today, almost twenty years later, we have the diesel at almost 2 euros. That has been the result of this directive; a directive which is expressly intended, as it says in its explanatory statement, to discourage the use of fossil fuels and hydrocarbons. [[applause]] And you will think, logically: transport, which is an essential element for the supply and supply of all consumers in Europe, will be exempt. No, gentlemen, transport is specifically recorded by the rules laid down in this directive. This directive states that the diesel tax has to be 33 cents per litre - it is a fixed one, it is not a variable, that today several parliamentary groups have been confused - and yet the Spanish Government has set it at 38 cents per litre. You're always more papists than the pope. You always go one step ahead, expressing to whom? The users of the diesel, who will already tell me, must be the rich, must indeed be the most wealthy. The question is that Spain needs to tighten its belt, because again, and I give it the dates, in 2003, when this directive is adopted, Spain's external debt was EUR 400 billion. And you will say: this directive approves new tax rates, new revenues that were not before; the Spanish accounts are probably healthier since then. No, on the contrary, the debt today is EUR 1 400 billion, i.e. the debt has been multiplied by three - by three - despite all the additional revenue. The problem is that you are disguised as doctors in economics and come here to teach us lessons. It gives us lessons from the Socialist Party, which I shall now speak of, and it gives us lessons to Bildu, to Bildu! The terrorists, those who have Arnaldo Otegi and David Pla, the last military leader of ETA, in their directive, those terrorists, the parliamentary group of ETA in Congress, come and dare to give economic lessons and dare to talk about taxes; revolutionary taxes must be, of which they know. [[applause]] And the Socialist Party comes and tells us: Where are you going to get the money? Socialists, you are a true manifest, expert in squandering public money. [[Shows a headline in El Mundo newspaper]] They spent EUR 680 million on the Andalusian unemployed in a single corruption case. [[Applauds]] You can get the money out of here to lower taxes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u162	Your Honor, you must finish, your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u163	When you, Socialists, look at the transporters and tell them that there is no money to make life easier for them, justify what you have spent on public money and public revenues. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u164	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u165	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating a motion calling on the Government to take measures to meet the demand of the Spanish carriers, a motion that was drafted prior to the agreement adopted on 25 March between the Ministry of Transport and the National Road Transport Commission, a motion with a marked ideological burden on the proposing party and with so many footnotes as imprecise and inconcrete measures they propose, forgetting that defending the reasonable, real and necessary demands of the transport sector is more important than their own partisan interests and moving away from one point of reality and from Europe. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the citizens have chosen us to provide solutions to the social reality of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, they have abandoned the Spanish. With inflation that in March will be close to 9% - 12.9 of the accumulated inflation in the transport sector - and with a rise in electricity and fuel prices that makes us poorer and more vulnerable, without direct tax cuts it is almost impossible to lower inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, direct aid is necessary at specific times like the one we live in, but you have made the subsidy a way of life. The People's Party has amended this initiative with the aim of enriching and providing concrete measures for citizens, real measures for transporters, large, medium and small, so we hope that the VOX Parliamentary Group will be able to live up to the circumstances and add in positive. But let us not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen, from December 2012 to the present the Ministry of Transport and the CNTC have reached three different agreements to solve the different crises that the sector was suffering. The very fact of having three agreements in four months already shows the weakness of the agreements themselves, the inability and lack of sensitivity of Minister Sánchez to know the reality of the whole sector and the precarious situation of several of the actors in the road transport industry. Asuman, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the share of responsibility they have in the energy emergency. Russia's military aggression against Ukraine is an aggravating factor in the situation of the Spaniards, but Mr Sánchez's incoherence and irresponsibility is also an aggravating factor. You should have titled your plan: a shock response plan to Sanchez and Putin, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The transporters want to work, let no one question it, but they want to do it decently and without losses. The transporters are not a minority of far-right, they are not villains or radicals of a retail movement of exalted, they are the same heroes that we all spoke to during the pandemic when they had to pass hardships and dangers to supply us, professionals with vocation, who see how the vehicles are increasingly expensive, the spare parts of the wheels, the ecological additive and even see that the fuel expenditure first was, approximately, 5000 euros per month for an autonomous and now it is 9000. [[applause]] You feel dizzy and deceived and you feel that you also deceive the sectors for which you work, trying to demonize them. Ladies and gentlemen, while large companies are backed by major contracts to which the rise in fuel prices is imputed, SMEs and self-employed are unable to impute such increases, since they operate, in most cases, by the freight exchange. The People's Party, in all this perfect storm, which is also joined by a speechless president, who has fully endorsed Peter's and the wolf's fable, asks you: do you believe that a line of endorsements of 10 billion ICO credits, when 36 billion euros were left, is a robust solution for the transport sector or that 20 cents can be improved to solve the situation in the sector? The People's Party calls on them to reduce VAT from 21 % to 4 % and to reduce it to the maximum with the suspension of the excise duty on hydrocarbons. I'm finishing up, President. Forget the increase in the taxation of hydrocarbons - they have entered 1 billion more in terms of the special tax of hydrocarbons in 2021 and 8 billion more in terms of VAT - and modify the credits of the general budgets of the State...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u166	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u167	... that are necessary to reduce spending. I'm on my way. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do not let the same happen to Sánchez, who does not get along with mathematics and confuses ordinals with fractions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u168	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u169	You count and add in favor of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u170	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-The President holds the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are many productive sectors marked by the miscontrol resulting from the unforeseen, non-compliance and failures of the management of almost four years of the Executive of Pedro Sánchez, who has found in the invasion of Ukraine a pretext to camouflage inflation and other bruises to the national economy. The arrest of thousands of transporters has highlighted the insensitivity, when not the contempt of the government, because working at losses, also in the case of the primary sector, it is impossible to sustain any activity, impossible. The Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda should have understood from the minute one that in the protests there was above all a reason for job dignity. Instead, the Government went directly to the confrontation, underestimating the importance of this sector and the need for all carriers to obtain a profitability with which to support their families. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning the Council of Ministers adopted a number of important measures to alleviate the energy impact. We'll see about that. For any transporter to go on the road knowing that his day is going to entail loss of money is a agony. It was and is, if it is not corrected, an unsustainable situation, and therefore it is only necessary to recriminate to the Government its high level of clumsiness in order to exclude from the talks representatives of a sector which, in effect, has legitimately accredited federations, organizations and associations to defend needs and propose agreements for the benefit of the whole, but in which there are thousands of professionals who operate autonomously and who also need to be heard and paid attention, more if they are in situations of economic suffocation resulting from the escalation of fuel prices. In this sense, no present or future Government should be shunned from that disturbing labor formula of working at losses, resulting from the rise of high costs, which leads to its ruin, imminent or deferred, but to its ruin. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few hours there seems to be timid, unconfirmed progress in resolving a conflict which, in addition to more losses for those who participated in the mass stoppage, has caused collateral damage, such as the industry, where it has dragged to temporary closures in production, or that of the fishing fleet, which, with the rise of fuels, in addition to its specific problems, has had to refrain from fishing because of the difficulties resulting from the transport of fish to the markets, or that of the agri-farmers, who have an anguish added to the already desperate problems of their day-to-day, in which they have no rest. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that the question to the Government was very pertinent, but Minister Sánchez Jiménez's answer was a great missed opportunity. I'm sure... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u174	... Conversely, their statements helped to irritate the sector and erupted the demands that, calculator in hand, had and had full justification. The adoption of this motion and the commitment of the Government to implement it would be useful to alleviate the despair of our carriers. That is why I voted in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u176	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that the problem of transport is not new, it is not recent, and, therefore, it draws attention and deserves criticism of the unpredictability of the ministry, of the MITMA, when analyzing this situation. This is, in my view, a consequence of that resolution of 21 December 2021 which reflects the composition of the national transport committee, the CNTC, but not those who were the real partners in this transport sector. It happens that the transport sector is unique. Reference is made to the transport sector when it encompasses or integrates different groups, which at present coincide in the field of protest, but I suspect that not in the interests, that I believe that in many cases they are even confronted. It is not the same collective of the large transport and logistics companies grouped in the federations - represented in the CNTC - that of the self-employed, which arose both from the disintegration of enterprises as, sometimes also, on their own initiative, or that of the small self-employed, which in many cases resembles false self-employed because of the so burdensome conditions in which they have to work and which make impossible their autonomy and profitability. It must also be said that this problem is not solved simply because there have been no concrete measures for the sector, because there have been them, as the minister of the industry explained last day, such as the revisions of contract prices or the translation into national law of measures of European directives aimed at guaranteeing decent conditions for professionals. Perhaps this lack of solution is due to the fact that the regulation of the sector itself is, on the one hand, insufficient, on the other hand, incongruent and inadequate in any case. Hence, motions like this, which speaks of solutions, which are not such, because the easy solutions to complex problems have never existed, unless it is intended to use the thread of demagogy and populism, which is on what is based both this motion and the intervention of the group that supports it. This motion refers to a number of issues that I will at least try to clarify. First, it speaks of Europeanist impositions. It must be remembered that European issues are in common - joint purchasing, reducing prices, accelerating interconnections. We're not going anywhere alone, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. Secondly, road transport cannot be outside Community rules when they regulate guarantees for its workers. The so-called mobility package, which refers to driving times, rest, shift of workers, tachographs, cabotage and the Eurovignette - to which I will refer later - is aimed at improving the working conditions of drivers, attracting new generations, ending dumping and making the sector a sustainable sector. And the Eurovignette, which is a measure approved by all the institutions - the Parliament, the Council - and where my territory has been trying for years to obtain a degree of legal certainty that it does not achieve, is necessary and is enshrined in Community law. Thirdly, the measures have existed, such as the limitation or reduction of fuel prices, but they affect everyone, the employers of transporters, the small self-employed, but also many other sectors, the rural areas or many others that are not mentioned. I'm going to give you reason on one subject, the issue of the health cent. He's right because it's a result of a judgment that hasn't been served. But I want to conclude with a certain question, on which I disagree, and which is in addition to some way the root of the divergence with the whole motion, and it is the question of safe parking. Dignifying the profession also commits the Administration, which must be required to secure and supervised parks with European certification, such as those that have just been built by the Guipúzcoa Provincial Council 10 kilometres from the border with France in both directions, in Astigarraga and in Oiartzun. It is called Centro Integral de Transportes de Guipúzcoa, and it is gold, because platinum does not exist in this category. But, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, this requires investments, resources, for which the European Union is committed in all countries through a system, which is that of payment for use, which uses, pays, which pollutes, pays, because if we do not get resources, how do we intend to fulfil those obligations? How does VOX intend to comply with your letter to the Magi presented in this motion? What is the formula for sustaining these transport system costs, to which, of course, we send out a lot of messages, but we do not give any effective solution? Obviously, we will vote no to this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u178	Thank you, President. The motion that VOX is presenting to us today is an outdated motion, not because of a lack of diligence on the part of its members of the VOX Group. This is, as the Liberals in this House have already denounced, about the government's attitude of total passivity in the face of an emergency: it does nothing, it does not take steps in time to help the transport sector at the current juncture. In this we will agree with you, with the VOX Group, that the government does not act, when it acts late and, when it finally arrives, does so with measures that are insufficient and that are short. On 3 March, the Government complied with a decree that we validated in this Congress two weeks ago some historical demands for transportation. We support the validation of this decree precisely because it is a rule based on the Government's consensus with the National Road Transport Committee, but we have also said that in no case was it a historic agreement, as was sold to us by Minister Raquel Sánchez. What are historical are the demands of a special and essential sector such as transport, historical claims that were parked precisely when it was necessary to maintain the distribution of goods throughout Spain on the occasion of a country stopped by the health emergency in the pandemic of 2020. And we said that that agreement reflected in Decree 3/2022, of this month of March, was an agreement that arrived, in fact, bad and late. Late, because it is an agreement on the main circumstances that occurred at the end of last year and that precisely motivated an announcement of unemployment for 21 and 22 December. And wrong, because it did not contemplate the problem that we really have today, the increase in the price of fuel for all Spaniards and, indeed, in a special way for the transport sector, but also for the self-employed, for a plumber, for a lawyer, for a commercial, for self-schools, anyone who uses a vehicle to work. That is why we have been constantly criticizing, but especially since the beginning of the year, that this Government is failing to function, that it is looking elsewhere, while inflation is shooting at an effectively adverse and very complicated international situation. That is why we have proposed and put on the table measures such as the fluctuation of the IRPF or the subjection of the update of rental rents to the specific housing rental CPI; we have asked for rebates and we have also asked for the abolition of taxes to relieve the burdens of families, workers and businesses. And the government, on the trail, pushed by the goat on the street, is true, and although late and bad, it has done something, but, look!, because the agreement to which it has arrived with the transport, announced last Friday, and some more announced measure today are neither all nor sufficient. That is why we want to wait to see the letter of these measures and the government's commitment to the sector, because the only thing we see with the news from last Friday and today is that Mr Sánchez is again mistaken, again deceives us and, finally, corrects and misleads once again in order to be correct. We all remember the President in this House telling us that we had to wait for the European Council on 24 and 25, that the measures should have the backing of Europe; he said exactly that here two weeks ago. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u179	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Lopez-Bas. [[Pause]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u180	Thank you, Madam President. He said that two weeks ago, and some of those measures appeared this Thursday morning and others yesterday, and they also appeared because of the pressure of the sector itself, in the case of transport measures, without, of course, consulting with the other political forces to join forces; and, of course, without needing any European endorsement. That for us is further proof of the incapacity, lack of foresight and ineptitude of those who govern us, without knowing that they really have to face what is happening. We are not going to support with our yes a motion like the one that VOX is presenting to us today, because in many of its points, as I said, it is outdated and because, moreover, it contains some issue that we do not share at all, and it also disqualifies the Ministry's own agreements and the National Road Transport Committee. But we agree that an important substantive issue may have to be addressed, and it is the problem of the representativeness of the sector in the dialogue with the Government. Proof of this is that there is one part of that sector that is dialogue, that is, that reaches consensus, even if they are minimal, and another that does not feel represented. This requires analysis, respect and, possibly, reform of the internal rules of the national committee itself. But we do not agree with the partisan instrumentalization that we perceive makes VOX of this subject. The government's clumsiness at calling the carriers ultra-right is so enormously obvious that we are not going to fall into the trap of labeling all the discontents, as the government has done and you intend to use. Some of the measures that you claim in your motion are covered by the agreements between ministry and national committee, are in Decree 3/2022 and, also, those announced last Friday, yesterday and today. It is the sector itself that has also asked to check their effectiveness. The government, ladies and gentlemen, through its ministry, must speak to everyone and must do so in time and with anticipation, but we believe that this does not legitimize VOX to arrive, as the government also does, a little late, in a fashion that sets itself apart, no matter how legitimate and brave the anger of the Spaniards is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u181	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u182	Thank you, President. I must confess to you that, with almost fifty-seven years and more than ten years in these Chambers, I remain an absolute naive, truly. [[Laughter]] Because, look, I read myself a motion that is a consequence of questioning about the transport sector and you put your interest in it, but, of course, when the spokesman who is presenting it in this rostrum takes two minutes and starts talking about terrorists, ETA and the ERE of Andalusia, you think that the sector cares about a cucumber and that what they really care about is coming to talk about their book. [[applause]] But let me be naive. I read the motion as a result of questioning and, of course, it has some, at least, curious aspects. The spokesman has said that he has ten points, and I have been reviewing them all, but he has forgotten one; perhaps it has been forgotten or perhaps it has been intended, because, of course, he was not ashamed to explain it from here. I try to reproduce it literally, from memory, even though I may be mistaken. It comes to be something like drawing up a national energy sovereignty plan free from climate imposition by supranational bodies. [[Laughter]] Textual. One thinks: man, this is a proposal peculiar to the General Courts of the 1940s and 1950s.Do you realize what you are saying in this short sentence? What world do they live in? Are they returning to Spain, isolated from supranational and international bodies, like Juan Palomo, I like it and I eat it? [[Applauds]] [[Laughter]] [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The truth is, it's incomprehensible. The spokesman said: they are proposals of common sense. Well, everyone will have their common sense, mine isn't exactly this one. [[laughs]] There will be proposals in which we agree, such as the issue of decent and modern parking lots or the question of being able to talk to the sector - the government is already talking to the sector - but there are others in which it is not. I've set three as an example. I am going to the last one, which is somewhat loaded with demagogy, and this is not an exclusive of the VOX Parliamentary Group on this issue, which is a very serious issue and which we would have to try to discuss calmly, calmly, and not dispatch with PNL or with a motion resulting from interpellation. The last is the issue of payment for the use of high capacity roads. I know that what Europe says does not matter very much to you, but in any case, we should have a calm, calm debate and look at alternatives. But do not deceive the citizens, because these ways someone pays them; at the moment, we pay them all, those who use them and those who do not use them, who also pay them. We are therefore not going to be able to support this parliamentary initiative, as I suppose you will have imagined. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u184	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u185	Mrs Granollers, I do not think we are in a position to begin your intervention. [[Rumors.-Pause]] Quiet, please. Don't make a corridor in the hallway, please. [[Rumors]] When they deem it opportune, we will continue with the plenary session. [[Pause]] Thank you. Mrs. Granollers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u186	Thank you, President. Good night, deputies and deputies. We are here again debating a motion to improve the conditions of transport professionals and again they forget to include all sectors involved in transport, because there is something more than freight transport: there is passenger transport and there are also other sectors, such as taxi drivers or self-school teachers. There are many sectors apart from the goods. We warned the lords of the PSOE that only fifteen days ago the royal decree law was a tirite placed in a bleeding, which, moreover, went bad and late. Our group wants to talk about the dignity and professionalisation of the transport sector, which is an essential sector, as already demonstrated during the toughest moments of the pandemic. On the other hand, we note how this sector has suffered in recent months a precariousness of its working conditions which has led to an inevitable loss of professionals due to a lack of decent conditions. All this must be accompanied by the unsustainable increase in the prices of fuels and raw materials, leading thousands of workers in the sector to a situation of economic bankruptcy. To this catastrophic operation we must also add the total aging of the current fleet of trucks and vans of the State, whose average is fifteen years. And so we come to a situation of extreme vulnerability to market fluctuations and no margin for vehicle renewal. This has obvious and harmful consequences at the level of work, environment and road safety. For all the above reasons, we believe that we must be proactive and seek solutions and that these, in addition, should be swift. Our group proposes four points. The first point is on the application of the principles of the food chain. We know that the Government has undertaken to submit to the CNTC before 31 July the text of a bill to apply to the parties the principles of reciprocity of the food chain, such as a mutual interest, equitable distribution of risks and responsibilities or cooperation. It seems very fair to us, but we ask them: won't it be late? There is one in the meantime in a highly tense sector and, moreover, as we have said, goods are not the only sector. All transport is strained. Should we wait for a strike in the passenger transport sector to act? Point two is about the professional activity of transport drivers is recognized as a high risk by the International Labour Organization due to increases in accident and morbidity rates. From here, we urge the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration to recognize that in the activity carried out by the drivers of the transport, the circumstances legally required by Royal Decree 1698 of 2011, to lower the ordinary retirement age, compete. Well, do it, because the sector needs it, too. The use of the tachograph, without exception, because it controls the rests and the hours used and, therefore, is the best tool to ensure safe driving. The third point is on wages, on decent wages, in line with the sector's responsibility and danger. These must include all hours at the company's disposal, and not just the kilometres travelled, because, if not, it is a double aggravation of work. The fourth and final point is about the payment per kilometer travelled. Right now, much of the sector is working under the self-employed regime. An average of 90 cents is being paid to the carrier per kilometre, and the carrier assumes a cost of 1.30 euros per kilometre travelled. That is, the carrier loses, on average, 40 cents per kilometre travelled. What should happen to solve this problem? What sector do you know, except the agricultural sector, that is willing to pay to work? In short, instead of rewarding the essential sectors, both the agricultural and the transport sectors, which were at the foot of the canyon the whole pandemic, we are bringing them to the brink of bankruptcy. I'm on my way. It is necessary to quickly resolve this serious price crisis intensified by the invasion of Ukraine. Otherwise, self-employed workers and small businesses will not be able to resist any longer. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Granollers. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u188	Thank you, Madam President. First, I would like to welcome the efforts of the United Nations for the peaceful resolution of the conflict in Ukraine and, in particular, the appointment of the mediator. I believe that all political forces and all countries have to bet strongly on a diplomatic exit, on an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine and on ending the war as soon as possible, on what is bleeding the Ukrainian people and, at the same time, putting global food security at risk. [[Applauds]] When we talked about the freight dispute - we had a debate a couple of weeks ago and the inquiry was last week - there is something that I think is perhaps staying a little out of the debate at some point. The truth is that Milton Friedman's disciples are having a really bad time - really bad time - and it's been going on since the COVID went off. Because when the COVID burst we realized that the productive tissue was weak, because speculation, intermediation, the outsourcing of production and services had prevailed rather than strengthening the productive tissue. We had devalued the work, but there were those who made money with speculation. And that makes us have a productive fabric in a weak situation, that we have public services that, after so many cuts from the Montoro boys, will come to a very weak situation. That affects all sectors. When we talk about the goods transport sector, it must be said very clearly that for decades - for decades - in this country we have been betting on the savage precariousness, on the devaluation of work, on the brokering and subcontracting chained, for allowing those, the great shippers, to impose again and again abusive conditions on those who carry out the work effectively. And the perfect storm has arrived at the time of the fuel surge, because the fabric was caught with pins. We need a very thorough reflection in the transport sector. We have also seen it in the food sector. We have passed a food chain law to control prices - I repeat: control prices -. Do you know what that means, disciples of Milton Friedman? We must put our batteries in the Government and we must ensure that this law is enforced, that there is no abuse, because we need that law to become a reality as soon as possible. So much so - so much they talk about farmers - that they asked for compliance with the food chain law in the last mobilization, which, by the way, they voted against already we all know who: the same ones who tell us today, under a magic formula, that we must avoid people working below costs. Of course, we all agree, but the invisible hand of the market strangles the producer, strangles the person who does the actual work, and that is where the state has to intervene and control the market, in order to prevent the person who does the production and services in this country from being strangled. [[Applauds]] And that impels us to this agreement that has recently been adopted and that goes in the wake of the demands of all organizations, such as price control to prevent abusive conditions... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u189	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u190	...get out as soon as possible, but not just to get the law out, but to enforce it. And there has to be a debate between the democratic forces so that we understand that in order to get out of the crisis a process of revaluing work is necessary, which work has to be worth more. In the face of those who have the economic model of intermediation, we have to strengthen the productive fabric, and that is also the strengthening of the fabric in transport and an improvement in working conditions. In 1994, a labour reform was carried out, in which everyone is presumed to be self-reliant. Faced with this situation, there were also many companies that told their workers: become self-employed and buy yourself a truck and I give you the curro. And, thus, they were caught, with one hand, with abusive tariffs on the part of that businessman who imposed on the false self-governing and, with the other hand, strangled the bank. I believe that we and we need a thorough reflection to enhance work and improve conditions. This weekend the drivers of the transport of passengers were also manifested and all asked the same: health at work, the need for recognition of professional contingencies and the need for the early reduction of the retirement age to guarantee the rights of all workers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u191	Mr. Mayor, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u192	We can't shake our pulse, we need to have a hard hand with speculators and protective policies with the people working in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u193	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] Quiet, please. For the Socialist Group, Mrs López Zamora has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u194	Thank you, President. Gentlemen of VOX, what a fine skin you have with how short you are with those who do not think like you! [[Applauds]] You Socialists cannot teach us any lesson about defending workers' rights, because I can tell you how the PSOE was involved in giving workers the right to strike, while you, in your election program, led to limiting the strike. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector is strategic for our country. We know the problem that professionals in the sector are going through, a structural situation that they have been suffering for a decade and which is now compounded by the consequences of a health crisis and the recent invasion of Ukraine. Yes, gentlemen of the PP, a decade, a decade where you were ruling and did not push any initiative. What I can tell you, however, is that there were more than seven years in government and zero measures for the transport sector. [[Applauds]] In just three years, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, and despite the situation, has put in place numerous measures, demands of the sector, dialogues and agreements with the organizations and which today are a reality, thanks to the firm support of the Government towards the transporters. The Socialists, aware that this is an essential sector, we are working to find solutions to their structural problems and, although the People's Party and VOX are striving to lead and stand out at this moment, taking advantage of the situation, the sector knows perfectly well who solves their problems and knows that they are neither PP nor VOX. One, because when they ruled they did nothing and another, because when measures come to Congress, which claims the sector and which drives the government, they do not vote in favour. [[Applauds]] They say that the measures promoted by the Government are crumbs. You, in your motion, welcome France's reduction of 15 cents per litre of petrol, but yet the reduction of 20 cents to the transport sector and for the protection of families in Spain criticise it and call it crumbling. They also call for the approval of the ban on loading and unloading, a historic claim of the sector. So, tell me, who do you represent? Maybe someone who doesn't have a truck? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, they have tried again to make noise with a strategic sector and have misused it to attack the government. Political parties cannot incite or invite violence, we cannot applaud the stones on the moons or the punctures on the tires. Just as the Government is asked to work, I ask all political parties here to be responsible; their speeches do not damage the image of a sector that we all applaud just a few months ago. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, to these bad practices, which I have told you are already doing, the practices of the People's Party are also being added, the worse it is for Spain, the better it is for you. But I will make one thing clear to you, that if your alternative is for Spain to go badly to its party interests, I will tell you that neither the Government nor the Socialist Party will allow it. We will put in place all the necessary measures for Spain to go well. [[Applauds]] In this respect, President Sánchez has achieved one more victory in Europe. Together with EUR 140 billion, an exception will now be made with the Iberian Peninsula so that the Government can take steps to lower the energy price. Therefore, it is now up to us all to work together to ensure that all sectors of the economy are reactivated, and for that it is essential that the transport sector is 100 per cent active. I can understand the truckers and waitresses who are currently following the strike; I also understand those who want to work. The minister has received the spokesperson of the platform and has transferred to him and the sector the commitment to pass a law so that the sector has no losses. It is in the hands of those who continue to strike that the definitive revival of the sector is for the benefit of the Spanish and Spanish. I would also like to send the recognition of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the taxi drivers who decided to devoke after the measures, as well as to the truckers or fishermen, because we are aware that their demands are fair, but also that if an effort is made by the government, an agreement can be reached. I'm on my way, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I am very sorry that you understand politics only as conflict and hatred. As the founder of my party, Pablo Iglesias, said, to deserve the hatred of those who poison the people, of those who steal the rights of the people, will be an honor for us. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. First, we vote in favour of the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group amending Law 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the military career, in order to establish a single professional regime for professional military personnel, as well as the Organic Law 5/2005 of 17 November 2005 on the National Defence, in order to gradually increase the proportion of gross domestic product destined for the financing of the National Defence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 13 by telephone, 344; in favour, 63 plus 2 by telephone, 65; against, 183 plus 7 by telephone, 190; abstentions, 85 plus 4 by telephone, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u197	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS AT THE CONVENTION, CITIZENS AND MIXTURES, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANICAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/000189]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u198	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the popular parliamentary groups in the Congress, Citizens and Mixed, Organic Amendment of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Penal Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 13 telematics votes, 343; 270 plus 7 telematics votes, 277; 58 plus 6 telematics votes, 64; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-29-CD220329.u199	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Citizens, VOX and some of the Mixed, standing, directed towards the guest gallery]] Good night. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and fifteen minutes of the night.
