ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, take a seat. We will begin this plenary session, by agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, keeping a minute of silence for the victims in the migration processes. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u2	We begin with the debate of taking into consideration the Proposition of Law, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Hydrogen. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to point out four important milestones in the recent history of Spain and the world. The first date I would like to point out to you is 29 April 1998, when Spain signed the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in New York, the first and most important international agreement to date, with the aim of achieving a global reduction in CO2 emissions. The second date was 22 April 2016, when Spain signed the Paris Agreement to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty. The third date, ladies and gentlemen, is 9 October 2018, the day on which the first Climate Change and Energy Transition Act was debated in this Congress of Deputies, an innovative and avant-garde law for the fight against climate change and for the fulfilment of our international objectives of reducing emissions and decarbonising the economy, in a context of technological neutrality, progress and growth, which the People's Party presented and which - we must remember - the Socialist Party rejected. [[Applauds]] The fourth date to which I would like to refer could be today, when a proposal for a hydrogen law is taken into consideration in this Congress, the first such law presented in a European Parliament to give clear signals to industry, markets and the planet to decarbonize and to develop an energy vector of present and future, making Spain a pioneer country in regulatory certainty of hydrogen. Ladies and gentlemen, especially those on the left and on the far left, pay attention, open your ears well and do not take offense. On these four dates I have pointed out to you, these four fundamental milestones in the fight for climate change, in each and every one of them has been the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Lessons to combat climate change and lessons to develop renewable energies in an environment of growth, progress and freedom of the left, none. We were the first. The People's Party has been at the forefront and has made a firm commitment to combating climate change: it reduced the inherited deficit, saved the economic sustainability of renewables and boosted the first auctions that needed no premiums. And you tow, jamming and not knowing how to put solutions to the biggest energy crisis in the recent history of Spain. Take note, gentlemen of the left. In the face of legislative changes, in the face of laws that impoverish and limit our growth and do little to reduce CO2 emissions, there is the People's Party, which anticipates future problems and presents a proposal for a pioneering, innovative, necessary, clear and demanded law by industry and society to make Spain the first European country to create a hydrogen economy as a necessary instrument to achieve our climate objectives and to penetrate renewables. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first law to be debated in Europe on hydrogen as an energy vector that facilitates the decarbonisation of the economy through rational and supportive use of resources, which encourages industrial activity linked to hydrogen, which generates quality jobs and allows for clean, abundant and cheap energy. Ladies and gentlemen, a hydrogen law is necessary, and the People's Party, which wants to live up to what society demands, brings this bill to be taken into consideration by this House and processed to become a law, a pioneering and innovative law that is improved, that is complemented by the contributions of all parliamentary groups, that is a solution to the challenges our environment demands and that is a useful tool for our industry and our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not find a single reason why it should not be voted in favour and taken into consideration in a majority by all the parliamentary groups, and if I were to think of it, it would be only one: hypocrisy. That's the only reason I find it not to be taken into consideration. I am convinced that all groups in the House will recognize in this bill that law necessary to advance the decarbonization of those productive processes and activities that cannot be electrified. However, although I am convinced, I will give you some arguments that need to be taken into consideration. The first and most important is the REPower Plan, which expressly calls on Member States and industry to speed up regulatory work to develop the production and use of hydrogen. The second comes from the Government's own recommendations - that is its own - derived from the conclusions of the market unit working group of the Ministry of Industry. This is the report of legislative recommendations for the hydrogen sector for Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is yours, it is a 2019 document, and it says that a law is needed to develop the hydrogen economy, a law that regulates all important aspects of hydrogen and allows safe and reliable use. What I do not understand is that, if since 2019 they have had the report in the drawer, why have they done nothing to develop a hydrogen law and have had to be the People's Party, as always, to put solutions to this government's desire? This is the opportunity we have to move forward, allowing it to be processed as a bill. But what is the hydrogen law? It is a law that considers hydrogen as an energy vector and not an industrial product. It is a law to give uniformity to the scattered legislation that exists, such as the Chemicals Storage Regulation, the road freight transport regulation or the type-approval of hydrogen vehicles. It is a law that regulates the value chain, that establishes the mechanisms for its production, for its transport and storage, that ensures the means for adequate safety and quality in its use, that makes clear the authorizations and areas of competition between administrations, that develops the mechanisms for their exchanges and marketing that sets the standards for their proper mixing and incorporation into existing networks. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-three countries of the European Union are in the race for regulatory regulation of hydrogen. The US hydrogen programme, one of the most advanced in the world, points out that the lack of a clear regulatory framework is the main obstacle to large-scale hydrogen development. We may or may not agree on some issues of the law, but on what we should agree on, and this law should serve to create a framework of understanding and development among all, is that hydrogen is an energy vector that helps carbon neutrality, allowing uses in electricity and heat, in energy storage, as a fuel for transport, in industrial and energy uses. This law must also be the clear regulatory framework to reduce the price of hydrogen production, creating economies of scale, providing legal certainty, giving certainty in the generation of demand and certainty to our country's industry, that industry that is interested in the hydrogen economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has launched, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the Hydrogen PART, with five calls for aid and subsidies for manufacturing, for mobility, for research, for development in hydrogen. When this PART is implemented, if it is implemented, Spain will need a clear regulatory framework that allows the results of this PERTE to be transferred to real life and that gives security and certainty to investments made by the industrial and business sector linked to hydrogen. That is also why this bill is proposed. Therefore, not processing this bill would be a mistake, in addition to an exercise of tremendous cynicism on the part of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we offer you the opportunity to anticipate what we know is necessary. Let us no longer waste time and begin to process this law that allows the management of the hydrogen system, the technical management of the system and an organized market that develops activities relating to storage, transport, distribution, marketing and its economic regime; that establishes the regulatory framework for professional qualification, resulting from new employment and information opportunities related to the use of hydrogen, as well as the approvals of vehicles and hydrogen refuelling stations; a law that establishes authorizations and their public utility as the energy vector of present and future. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a complete and necessary proposal for a law, and we will have to pass it sooner than later. Let us buy time, conquer the future and begin its parliamentary process. As I said at the beginning, I find no reason why it should not be taken into account and not vote in favour of it would be a mistake, as the Socialist Party has already used us, because on six occasions it voted against the reduction of VAT on light to reduce the price of electricity bill. Six times has been asked by the People's Party and has repeatedly been voted against by the Socialist Party, and it has finally had to be adopted. [[applause]] If it had been done before, the Spaniards would have suffered much less than they are suffering. It was also a mistake to vote against improvements in gas interconnections, because then Europe had to come and tell us that we have to improve the connection with France. This bill also goes so far as to improve interconnections so that they are used to transport hydrogen, exactly what the REPowerEU plan says. Another mistake was to try to create a new diesel and gasoline tax, which fortunately we managed to stop in time and has not been dealt with today. [[Applauds]] Although we are glad that the National Sustainability Fund for the electrical system is not being processed, the weakness and the bandages given by this Government are still monumental. They had never stopped processing two laws the day before. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity and the opportunity for you, for once, to anticipate yourselves positively in Europe, being the first to create a hydrogen law. Be careful, this law is a facilitator of decarbonization, generating a new wealth and an economic, avant-garde and pioneering sector. What a big difference to the laws that the Socialist Party is bringing us to this House, because in each and every one of them there was a ban, government intervention, which generates insecurity, or the imposition of a tax. Not here. There is a future here, there is progress and there is development. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, this law does not bring taxes or prohibitions. This bill is not meant to save Sanchez, but to help our country. That's what this law is for. I hope that is not the reason why they are not going to vote in favour. This law brings decarbonization and green economy. It is a model to face the challenges, very different from the model of the Socialist Party. It is done with vision, with commitment and with strategic reforms, in the face of this model of ideology, bandages and patches as we are accustomed to by the Government. If you do not count on your support, then we will know what your motivations are and will therefore lose their little credibility in the fight against climate change. I would like to end by thanking my fellow Members of the Commission, especially Guillermo, the advisers, the sectors with which we have met, the companies in the hydrogen sector that we have visited - we have made many kilometres - and, ultimately, all the sectors involved in the hydrogen value chain for their contribution and help in making this proposal for a law. Dear colleagues, today, once again, the People's Party has been a pioneer and a pioneer in the fight against climate change. The Socialist Party has always towed, but I hope that today they will not go against it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u4	Thank you. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The legislative progress on a key issue for our immediate future is irrevocable, and this is why it intervenes to support the consideration of this proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group, which has already registered eleven months ago and which responds to the interest to overcome obstacles in relation to hydrogen and its best use, now that enormous opportunities have been opened for its implementation. In an imminent way, a substantial part of the economy will revolve around the first element of the periodic table and the impulse to its new uses in different fields, which makes it necessary to anticipate both its promotion and the regulation of its security. In fact, other countries in the world already have specific legislation on hydrogen and, at Community level, both from Parliament and through the European Commission, agreements are being adopted and measures promoted for an energy transition involving compliance with international environmental agreements and the drive to lead the change in decarbonisation are being taken. The incorporation of so-called green hydrogen into European investment priorities and plans is an irrevocable reinforcement of strategic autonomy, and a hydrogen law such as the one proposed in this parliamentary initiative that Mr Requena Ruiz has defended is the right way. However, I would like to make it clear that, on the basis of an initiative in the Committee on Industry, Trade and Tourism, a subcommission for the study, deployment and installation of electricity and hydrogen charging infrastructures and their impact on the car industry in Spain will be set up if the plenary session so agrees. The purpose of this subcommission is also to establish a precise diagnosis of the situation and, where appropriate, to identify legislative initiatives to ensure that this hydrogen deployment process is consistent with the objectives set by our country. Ladies and gentlemen, with the arrival of Pedro Sánchez in Moncloa four years ago, radical and demented changes in energy policy were immediately initiated, which have dragged us into the current situation of dependence and expenditure to supplement the elimination of coal from the energy mix, hence the need for a regulatory framework for the incorporation of hydrogen into production technologies to be made with all those of the law. This consideration is very relevant for green hydrogen to develop in Spain all its possibilities in the fields of energy and sustainability. In the case of industry it is also a key element, and we know it well in Asturias for the great projects that ArcelorMittal has announced, one of the pillars of our economy. Renewable hydrogen will also play a key role in transport and in many other areas. Finally, as already demonstrated in previous discussions with this energy vector through, the Government approved in 2020 a road map that does not respond to technological and industrial emergencies to position Spain with very long deadlines; in fact, there are autonomous communities that have taken this matter very seriously and have done so in collaboration with the private sector. As the spokesman for the People's Group pointed out, it was necessary to send a clear signal to society and, in view of the Government's inaction, this hydrogen law was essential. I shall therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u6	Thank you. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u7	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This time we are faced with a proposal for a hydrogen law and it must be remembered that hydrogen manufacturing technology is a expensive technology and that in reality it only solves, mainly, the problem of storage and not that of energy generation. At present, it is only clearly justified when additional chemical by-products are obtained in this process. This in Cantabria is now very recent, as we have the Bondatti factory in Torrelavega, in the Solvay complex, where this circumstance occurs. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind the Government that, in order to solve the problem of storage, there are other short-term outstanding issues with some much more mature technology. In particular, in Cantabria we have a large outstanding investment in the reversible hydraulic power plant in Aguayo, which would greatly increase its storage capacity and which needs support. That is why it is urgent that the economic regime of storage, in general, be clarified as soon as possible, because there is a lot of money outstanding, and that there is legal certainty. Don't miss another chance. There are also liquid air storage projects that are now much more mature and should be supported by the Government. Initiatives like this one today have arguments in favour, such as granting certainty to the hydrogen sector, but they also have many weak points. First, it is necessary to make a rule of law for a matter that is still full of doubts. The Government could probably act directly through other types of rules, such as regulations or even ad hoc projects, because public utility and the need for occupation, social interest, do not always need a rule with the rank of law to regulate a complete matter. We must also be aware that the energy transition needs to be done gradually, and there are sources of energy that are very suitable for that transition that cannot be postponed prematurely, as appears to be apparent from this proposal for a law. It is not necessary to remember the crisis or to set examples that we all have in mind, because this law seems to have a vocation to put hydrogen as a source of energy for everyone, as gas can be. Our cities are full of infrastructures, such as those of water and above all those of gas, which we already see the problem it has, and not just for large consumers. Furthermore, I do not know whether it is so good to be pioneers at European level and not to be coordinated with everyone. As I said on another occasion, the Government has to tighten up on other things, such as, for example, not being so scarred by the calls it has for this energy promotion. Therefore, I believe that this law is not timely at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u8	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u9	Thank you, President. The truth is that hydrogen has become the hope for renewable energy, for obtaining clean energy, an environmentally friendly option to produce, as I said, clean and renewable energy, necessary to meet the needs of the world, simply extracted from the enormous volume of water. It is an energy source that has many advantages, because it is versatile, it can become electricity, it can become other fuels, it can be transported, it can be stored and it does not emit harmful gases. The invasion of Ukraine has also accelerated the race to develop alternative energies and reduce dependence on importing Russian gas. In this context, green hydrogen is a very promising alternative, although problems remain, such as its competitiveness or, what is the same, to reduce its production, among others. The race for positioning has only begun and we are already talking about big projects, but the truth is that we need to talk about something more than big projects, because it is necessary to start concretely all the steps, to define a regulatory framework and, ultimately, to lay the foundations for a technology that is going to be key in the decarbonization of sectors with difficult electrification, where there are no technically viable solutions, and to adopt a strategic positioning in that technology to take advantage of the energy, environmental and industrial and technological development opportunities that it entails. In this regard, the proposal for a law of the People's Party can be a good starting point for the debate, because, according to its explanatory statement, the aim is to create a clear, concrete and precise legal framework that provides security and certainty for investors. However, we also note that there are clear points in this proposal, because it tells us about the production of hydrogen through different technologies according to the raw material used; therefore, it seems that they are proposing a regulation not only for green hydrogen, but also for grey hydrogen and blue hydrogen, but it does not speak for nothing about renewable gases, biomethane, biogas, etc. It is also confusing what regulates, if it is hydrogen exclusively, hydrogen in natural gas networks or both. On the other hand, they set out a number of measures to encourage the use of hydrogen, but they are not concrete: tax exemptions or a network of hydrogens. They pose further developments on most of the issues that are now of concern, such as guarantees of origin: economic incentives for production or, as I have said, hydrogenic conditions. In addition, the proposal copies the gas management for hydrogen, when the market has not yet been ruled by partial integration of hydrogen into the natural gas system or, more radically, by a complete transformation of the gas system into a pure hydrogen system. It is a proposal which, moreover, seems somewhat out of date with European and also state regulatory developments, regulatory developments which are currently being debated in Europe to define the reform of the directive for the internal markets in gas, renewable gases and hydrogen, even to lay the foundations for the transport of hydrogen. In this respect, we believe that there must also be coordination with Europe. It is true that there is a long way to go and that a favourable framework is needed for the development of this technology, and here we can also highlight the hydrogen road map, which sets out the guidelines for boosting this renewable hydrogen in Spain in the context of the energy transition, but also a regulation is needed for a technology that is not yet mature. In short, it is necessary to put the issue in the political debate, but we also understand that it must be done with all the actors in the value chain, and also at different stages because of its still immatureness, with a first phase for the short and medium term, in which the updating of the regulatory framework should perhaps focus especially on measures that respond to the most immediate needs with a view to promoting the development of the first projects and experiences, measures that facilitate the production of green hydrogen from renewable electricity, removing regulatory barriers and encouraging fiscal incentives or other economic stimulus tools. It will also be necessary to adapt the rules to facilitate the development of networks for the transport, distribution and storage of hydrogen in order to facilitate their use in different sectors and to amend the rules to facilitate the deployment of new installations, as well as the use and adaptation of natural gas and other types of infrastructure which may prove essential in the development of a hydrogen economy. We believe that a system of guarantees of common origin for the whole of Europe should also be implemented during this period, an essential tool, of course, in order to give value to the production and use of renewable gases that the proposal does not contain, and it is also a system that the Government is already designing. Finally, in a second phase for the medium and long term, the objective should be the development of a much more specific and comprehensive regulatory framework for hydrogen, when the market should be based on partial integration of hydrogen into the natural gas system or, as I said earlier, more radically, on a complete transformation of the gas system into a pure hydrogen system, as this conditions the necessary regulatory developments in the future. As I said, we see too much clarity, although we appreciate that this proposal at least puts this debate on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u10	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal for a law on an issue on which both my group and I have been insisting for a long time, on the need to bet decisively on green hydrogen because it is a real opportunity for Spain for three very clear reasons: it is the glue that unites all sectors of decarbonisation and fills the gaps, it is itself a vector of the impulse of renewable energies and it is a guarantee of energy independence because the resources required are better distributed than natural gas and do not depend on third countries. [[The lady]] And it is that if there is a group that has defended in this House the need to move forward in the hydrogen strategy has been Citizens. More than a year ago we presented a non-legislative proposal in which we already asked to promote investments, prioritize measures for the development of hydrogen and take measures to promote research in this regard. That is why we thank the People's Party today for bringing this up again, and we also thank the Socialist Party for presenting another non-legislative proposal in the same direction after our initiative, which the Liberals have improved by tabling amendments. But when the People's Party comes to present a bill, it has to do it right. Our commitment to green hydrogen is determined and no matter who drives the measure because we will always approach it with a constructive and pro-active spirit in order to get it to bet once and for all for this energy. When the Socialist Group tabled the non-legislative proposal, we tabled amendments to improve it, and we will do so if this legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group comes forward. The great challenge that renewable hydrogen has always faced has been its cost. The dramatic fall in the prices of renewable technologies has contributed greatly to reducing the price of kilograms of renewable hydrogen, but still exceeds that of natural gas just a year ago. If, with the progressive fall in costs for the development of innovation and efficiency, we add the huge increase in natural gas prices, hydrogen is proposed as an immediate cost-effective solution. That is why we continue to insist that it is vital to invest now in the deployment of this technology in order to further reduce its costs and create green jobs in a rapidly expanding sector. If the governments strongly support it, many experts point out that the cost could be around four euros per kilogram by 2030. [[The Lord]] In short, Spain must take advantage of its situation in order to compete for the medium term as an international hub for renewable hydrogen. By contrast, at European level, our country is the most competitive place to produce renewable hydrogen because of its unique climatic conditions, and this is something we cannot miss. Spain must compete with this double base. We have the know-how, the infrastructure, the legal certainty and the impetus of the European Union's plans that other countries in the world do not possess and we have the climate conditions, the availability of space and the competitive costs that other countries in the European Union do not have. It is from this approach that Spain must attract investment to a sector that is undoubtedly key and will increasingly be in the next few years. In this sense, we must attract investment to form business clusters and expand those that already exist by the fastest way to form the largest number of value chains, increase the productivity of companies and make Spain a more attractive option to invest in hydrogen. Secondly, this identification of Spain with a hub of opportunities in the sector also cuts the gap between the supply and demand of skills or training already identified in the PERTE. It is necessary to invest, but as much as it is a multi-sectoral and long-term change, investments must be made now if we are not to miss that train. Likewise, promoting a new value chain in our country at a critical time like this is an obligation in addition to an opportunity. So, once the diagnosis is made, what's missing? Real momentum on the part of the Government. We have been asking for this for months both with our proposals and by improving those presented in this House by other parliamentary groups, and we will continue to do so until the government bets on green hydrogen decisively and does not let escape a train that can be decisive for the future of our country. And we do so because, beyond these ideas to improve the proposal, it is clear that the People's Party has not done its duties with this proposal. The renewable gas sector, to which green hydrogen belongs, will soon be regulated by a Community package of measures on hydrogen and decarbonised gas markets, and in particular by the directive on common rules for the internal markets in natural and renewable gases and, of course, also in hydrogen. It would have been more practical for everyone if their proposal had taken the directive into account, but it was not mentioned once in the text, even though sooner or later this Congress would have to transpose it. We therefore believe that there is little point in supporting a proposal for a law that we will inevitably have to overcome sooner rather than later with the transposition of this European regulation, not to mention the lack of concepts that we believe should not be lacking in any regulation governing this matter. Up to seventy key concepts on the renewable gas sector are defined in the draft directive, while the People's Party's proposal only defines seven. It remains undefined what is a storage facility, what is a hydrogen terminal, what is an interconnector, as well as establishing a framework for citizens' energy communities, ensuring free access to third parties, deepening the functions of network managers and the regulatory authority and ensuring the principles of traceability and additionality. All these elements can and must be better regulated in a proposed hydrogen law, so that we can only abstain and aspire to improve the content of this initiative in order to make it more effective if, as I say, this process passes. The opportunity offered by renewable hydrogen, especially in the disastrous context of natural gas prices and its dependence on Russia, is too important for our country to experiment just before we have to transpose a directive. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u12	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. We can share the importance of hydrogen as an energy vector for the future and that it is a clean energy that would decarbonize difficult sectors, as well as provide a solution to the intermittence in renewable energies. However, we cannot support this proposal by the People's Group if, for example, they are committed to establishing a system of free competition for the installation, when the BNG understands that it would be more socio-economically fair to start with public planning on the production and storage of hydrogen and all renewable gases, which should be regulated together, and that criteria of suitability and lack of environmental impact should be taken into account, and the recovery of areas in transition can also be introduced. Nor can we share the regulation of activities and trade and the price system, for which it simply copies in the regulated part the one currently existing in the electrical system, a system that, as is known, the BNG demands reform, so, logically, we cannot support this extension. Moreover, we understand that this would be a good opportunity to propose and initiate a public energy system, with the incorporation of public energy companies - as they said, of the Galego Nationalist Block in the case of Galicia -. In short, we believe that this proposal is confusing, if not biased. It confuses green energy with renewable energy. And it seems that its main goal is to win the title of being the first to arrive. However, we are certain that it thinks more about the interests of investors than about the general interest. We shall therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u14	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u15	Thank you, President. Mr Requena, the truth is that when I entered the Chamber I did so with the intention and conviction to vote in favour of your proposal despite the fact that we have some discrepancies. Article 2 they propose is absolutely inconceivable: there is only one area of competence, the State, which will then be able to agree with the autonomous community what the State thinks is appropriate, beyond the fact that, as someone has pointed out, we will surely have a directive to transpose. In addition, we prioritize the need for a proper regulatory framework, specific to hydrogen, not only about its production and storage, but also about distribution and marketing. But I have listened to you speaking from this rostrum and I have not seen you very motivated to convince the rest of the fellow Members of the House. Members of the Socialist Group, less to put their finger in the eye physically, I think he has done absolutely everything to them. It must be a new parliamentary marketing technique, but I'm already getting older for all this news. In any case, you have the feeling that you have come up here especially to convince the Socialist Group not to vote in favour and to be able to say that the Socialist Group does not accept any of the proposals of the People's Group. However, he has not yet convinced me to vote against his proposal. But one piece of advice: If you want to be voted on, don't go up to this rostrum and say you don't vote for me or you're hypocrites, because they probably won't vote for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u16	Thank you. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u17	Thank you, President. We were saying this before the PSOE initiative and we are keeping it now - we are not going to change our mind -: We need to legislate on green hydrogen because it is a future bet of the European Union within the decarbonisation strategy, because it translates into two parts to develop within the Spanish state - let us hope that one of them is that of Tarragona South taking advantage of the demand existing in the petrochemical industry - and because there are already other projects in the pole position waiting for regulation. At the outset, however, it must be said that your proposal is not limited to legislation on green hydrogen. Your article 18 opens the spark - if I may - to hydrogen from polluting sources. For that it is almost better to amend the Hydrocarbons Act. In fact, and bearing in mind that they propose that the gas network can be used at a given time for hydrogen, it would make all sense. But if your initiative is not acceptable to us - parliamentary marketing on the margins - it is simply because your initiative has become, text in hand, an apisonator of autonomous competences. To review absolutely any competence that has to do with authorizations and planning of production plants but also of storage, liquefaction, regasification, transport and distribution of hydrogen or any other facility that exceeds the territorial scope of an autonomous community, limiting the authorization powers of the autonomic governments practically to self-consumption. Moreover, a Catalan public energy, for example, could not operate in the hydrogen chain if its proposal - if I may - is sublime. I would remind you that energy competence is shared or that the Catalonian State of Autonomy states that the Generalitat has exclusive competence in the field of waters belonging to intra-Community river basins. They also ignore the competition in taxes for electricity and gas marketing, as well as for the passage of installations through the urban subsoil, which should also apply to the hydrogen vector. They invade the competences of the autonomous communities in the field of environmental assessment. They want to encourage research, development and innovation but only in those projects that have a national approach, in what you understand as your Spanish brand. They argue that, in order to give free access to hydrogen, as with electricity, the declaration of public utility can be carried out, which is an added risk. It is a proposal full of competitive barriers that raise autonomous governments, while making it a toll-free highway in the event that some gas stationer wants to create some new member for oligopoly - a new entity, perhaps with revolving doors -. And, finally, it is suspicious and very worrying its article 5, in which they get rid of the obligation - attention - to obtain administrative authorization to the facilities of storage, distribution and supply of hydrogen in homes in self-consumption or in energy communities for electrical thermal uses. We are talking about a highly flammable and explosive gas and, therefore, in which head it is possible to dispense with administrative authorization. In addition, burning hydrogen in domestic use - to fry eggs, for example - makes no sense either technologically or economically speaking and not even in terms of energy efficiency. That's why, on the way in, we tell them we're going to vote no.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u18	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In spite of the little incentive in your speech, Mr Requena, as Mr Bel has rightly pointed out, you do not seem in the spirit of reaching much consensus. We praise his intention, even if only for an incoherent whirlwind with repeated allusions to the reform of the hydrocarbon law. If you allow me to click, we are talking about hydrogen, which is part of hydrocarbons, but we should have gone to that kind of chemical formulation, because little or nothing has to do with it. We do not deny under any circumstances the multiple potentialities of green hydrogen. In Catalonia, the Government, which we are part of and perceive, is giving support to projects for the generation and use of hydrogen of renewable origin, and in this sense has developed the works of the Taula de l'Hydrogen of the Energy Transition of Catalonia, which will generate a set of proposals, of projects related to green hydrogen. The Government, through the Direcció General d'Indústria and the Institut Català de l'Energia, supports these initiatives to stimulate the participation of companies and to ensure that they are included in calls for support with European funds Next Generation. On the other hand, Catalonia's energy foresight work on the 2050 horizon, the PROENCA 2050, also developed by the ICAEN, recently presented by the Consellera d'Acció Climàtica, includes hydrogen as an energy vector that will participate in the energy transition, prioritizing its use in heavy transport and in the decarbonization of thermal industrial processes of difficult electrification. Our group's commitment to hydrogen and green hydrogen cannot be criticized nor can it be said that it has not been constant. In particular, Mr Martínez Oblanca has already referred to the setting up of the subcommission on the implementation of electric and hydrogen charging points of vehicles to be voted on Thursday in this Chamber, I hope that with the unanimous vote of his ladies and gentlemen, and I am grateful for the enthusiasm of Mr Martínez Oblanca. In general, we are in favour of developing a framework for boosting green hydrogen, on which you do not discern in your proposal for a law, as we consider that in an increasingly electrified society hydrogen is the energy vector that provides flexibility and allows the integration of renewable electricity generation into the energy-using sectors. As a demonstration of this bet with the said Taula de l'Hydrogen de la Transicio Energètica, promoted by the Institut Català de l'Energia, there is a table formed by companies, entities and administrations so that specific opinions and proposals can be provided to develop hydrogen as an energy vector, and this is how we believe it should be done, cooperating, sharing opinions and analyzing. Today, however, you propose your own hydrogen regulation model, of which we share some points that could facilitate its development, but much less we share the whole of your proposal for a law, in particular your re-centralizing will, because we already know what the energy model of the People's Party is: oligopoly and concentration of power. And what remains to be seen is whether the PSOE is in the same model or not. For us, and we have repeated this on countless occasions, the energy transition is the opportunity to move from a centralized model, in the hands of a few, to a decentralized and democratised model, because we believe that the change of energy model is also a very powerful lever of social change. But, as Baloo would say to Mowgli, that is already another story and I suppose we can reserve it for the appearance of the vice president of the branch next Thursday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor for the Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u21	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Firstly, we want to show our revulsion at what happened on our border, and specifically I am referring to the images that have come to us these days from the border between Morocco and Melilla, which cannot leave anyone indifferent, especially the institutions. We've seen bodies piled up and people wounded and beaten. There was a tragic balance of thirty-seven dead and hundreds of wounded, of whom we do not know his name, his ages, his trajectories or those who left behind, but what I am sure of is that we know what his dreams were, a humble dream and a legitimate dream as it is to have a better life. Therefore, we cannot normalize them to kill you when you try to escape poverty, misery, situations of violence, situations of hunger. We cannot normalize this situation, and we express our solidarity with the families of the victims and the position of our group that an investigation be opened immediately to clarify the facts, clarify this human tragedy and seek the corresponding responsibilities that are necessary. [[Applauds]] With regard to the proposed hydrogen law, first of all a previous question, because we are talking about energy, industry, economics and I understand that today the best policy is to stop the war, to stop the war for our economy, for our energy supply and also for Spanish and European industry, that is to say, to seek immediate peace and diplomatic and negotiating channels to stop the conflict, which is, of course, the majority position of the Spanish and Spanish, according to the data from the survey of the European Council for Foreign Affairs. The consequences of war and sanctions are evident for both industry and energy supply and the economy. In fact, we are hitting an inflation record in the eurozone, which is around 8%, and there are global problems with food, raw materials and energy resources as a result of the deorbited rise in prices and the importance Russia and Ukraine both have in these sectors. As for wheat exports, on which many countries in Africa, Russia and Ukraine depend, they account for 30%; in the fertilizer market, both Russia and Belarus are very important countries and this is having an impact on food prices; there may also be problems from neon gas in industry, from which Russia and Ukraine have large reserves, and we are seeing fuel and energy prices rise. Having said that and betting on peace as a major political solution to the problems we are discussing, we understand that renewable hydrogen is fundamental, as are other sources of clean energy, given its future importance for Spain as an energy vector and basic raw material in the process of decarbonisation of the economy, especially because of its role in the development of an associated industry and the potential for employment and growth that this entails, as well as an opportunity for the less populated areas and those territories that have been deindustrialised. In addition, we understand that green hydrogen is configured as an energy vector of great potential to achieve a neutral energy system in emissions thanks to its uses of energy storage and to decarbonize certain uses where so far the ecological transition lacked specific solutions. We discussed it and approved it on 31 March 2022 by means of a non-law proposal, where our group also gave examples of the renewable hydrogen project in Asturias, which is the largest in the world, and the Andalusian project that is actually being worked on in Algeciras. It is also included in the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy, adopted by the Council of Ministers. Specifically, a country that respects the limits of the planet establishes the need to address the energy transition with guarantees and from planning frameworks, insofar as three out of every four tons of greenhouse gas emissions originate in the energy system. Priorities for action include the Renewable Hydrogen Roadmap, which aims to promote the deployment of hydrogen generated from renewable energy sources. With this in mind, the proposed law raises precisely some regulatory issues that are already being addressed. On the one hand, the above-mentioned Renewable Hydrogen Roadmap sets out a set of sixty measures grouped into four areas of action. The first area includes regulatory measures, including the introduction of the system of guarantees of origin, to ensure that hydrogen is produced with 100 % renewable energy. And a second chapter devoted to sectoral measures to encourage the use of renewable hydrogen and the implementation of projects in the industrial, energy or mobility fields. Therefore, there is already a coherent and well-defined strategy for regulating the development of the sector. On the other hand, it should be recalled that the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan sets out milestones and regulatory objectives to be met within a specified time frame. In particular, in relation to the renewable hydrogen roadmap and its sectoral integration, an investment of 1555 million euros of public funds is proposed to position Spain as a technological benchmark in the production and exploitation of renewable hydrogen. Finally, there are no real impulse measures to green hydrogen and most of the hydrogen produced comes from fossil energies. Thus, it does not address ecological transition needs. A fundamental issue, and that does not appear in the bill - obviously, we did not expect the opposite - nor in the debates, is that we brought a bill pointing out the need for a public energy company...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u22	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u23	Yes, President. I'm finishing up. We will continue to fight for a public energy company. Many public funds are being invested in hydrogen and the public must be in the strategic sectors of our economy if collective interest is to prevail over particular interests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u24	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Utrilla Cano. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u25	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing us here today a proposal for a law for a future source of energy - very much in the future, because it is true that you still have a long way to go - at a time of an energy context in ancient Spain, where the energy policy of this government is a major waste, another. They are unable to find a solution that will alleviate the unstoppable price escalation which is leading to unbearable suffering for Spanish households; by deceiving the citizens by saying that Brussels should give the approval to the tax reduction, when by then half of Europe had already lowered the VAT on fuels; by defachingly accusing Putin of being the only culprit of the price increase; by not apologizing for a series of measures which have not managed to alleviate the situation - not a single word of self-criticism, gentlemen - they are incompetent to announce the intervention of the price of gas with which they intended to lower the receipt of the light of the Spaniards and which has served absolutely nothing. In short, a new ridiculous, one more of this nefarious government. [[Applauds]] But, gentlemen of the PP, in the successive governments that you have led, they did not want to change things either: they did not address any structural changes in energy policy, they did not promote any connectivity with Europe, they continued to shut down nuclear power stations. Does that sound like you, Garoña, gentlemen of the PP? He had a useful life until 2031 and Rajoy in campaign assured that if he ruled, he would never close it. And I already believe it closed down, drowned by the taxes and taxes that your government imposed on you. It's been many years working for Garoña's closure. Those of us who have fought for it, today we are pleased to have finally achieved it. This was said by a politician currently in his ranks in the Senate. [[Applauds]] And what about the rise in fuel VAT in 2018, from 18 % to 21 %? He never retreated again. Don't forget, you have a share of responsibility in all of this. Look, the future goes through cleaner energies is absolutely obvious and with what VOX fully agrees, just as evident that the pace that climate fanaticism has imposed on us is excessive, utopian and realistic zero, and that is why we are paying for the consequences. Come up here, gentlemen, and explain why with similar prices in the barrel of Brent in 2008 or 2011 gasoline cost 1.25 euros, almost half what it costs now. Tell the truth to the Spaniards, that the market is tense to the extreme because they have had the great idea of minimizing refining capacity to reach their longing ecological transition as soon as possible. Or explain why we shut down and blow up coal thermals fifteen years before the Brussels demands, while the green Germany is developing the coal plants that were, by the way, dormant and in reserve. Here we fly them through the air and there they reserve them. [[Applauds]] That energy creation in the future will be a combination of various technologies is obvious and that hydrogen is going to be part of that set of energies - we do not know in what form or in what percentage - also, undoubtedly, is a reality. Nor is there any doubt that legislation is needed to move forward and to create a regulatory framework to create legal stability for investors. But, gentlemen of the PP, I fear that you, for wanting to move forward, have lost all perspective, as there is currently no hydrogen market. It's reality. And the doubts and uncertainties of the sector are so much that creating a fast and running legal framework can generate more confusion than it already exists today. [[Applauds]] At the point where we are, it might be better to move forward in legislation to provide direct aid and economic and fiscal incentives for the development of specific projects, production, transport, storage and consumption facilities and to facilitate the promotion of such projects with clear and unique procedures throughout the national territory. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there are issues that we cannot share with you. The law is underdeveloped. Most points are very inconclusive. In many areas it is said that it will be the agency in charge that will develop or promote. In short, it lacks concreteness because, in fact, there are still many points to be defined and there are very few certainties in the sector. The law is a copy of the law of electricity and hydrocarbons and there are many topics - such as the approval of hydrogen vehicles, approval of installations, safety and quality, transport, storage, etc. - for which it is proposed to use the existing regulations. In VOX we believe that we are at the best time to analyze what is good for us and, in general, to develop custom regulations for hydrogen in all cases. You identify the technical manager of the system, Enagas, who has to be so for installation, transport and exclusive distribution, which is supposed to be - in most cases - private. Why? Why not allow other distributors - for example, regional distributors - to do so as well? They also speak in all cases of green hydrogen. Why do other technologies, such as the generation of pink hydrogen from nuclear energy, or even grey, which is much more competitive and today the numbers can come out? In Germany I remind you that there are more than one hundred hydrogens that use grey hydrogen. For what? To develop a market to launch a sector that is still very green, indeed, and in which, unfortunately, green hydrogen costs between two and three times as much as grey hydrogen. On the other hand, in their law they do not mention cogeneration, which would be key in this whole process. It is difficult to mark the right point of when to legislate, but, in our view, you have advanced and, as the saying goes, haste is never good counselors. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in Congress we must be extremely rigorous with what we are talking about. You make errors of package and concept in your chapter III. They say textually that grey hydrogen is produced from methane, and in whose production CO2 emissions are generated. No, ladies and gentlemen, grey hydrogen is generated from natural gas, which is not the same as methane, it is the same molecule but it is not the same, because there is biomethane and green hydrogen can be generated from it. Green hydrogen defines it as hydrogen produced from water from renewable energy sources. But there are other ways of obtaining green hydrogen, such as the reformation of biomethane that I have just commented on, or the gasification or pyrolysis of waste. The latter produce neutral hydrogen in CO2, which is also green hydrogen, ladies and gentlemen. Really, it's all about getting fully involved, but you've gone beyond these definitions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u26	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u27	Thank you, President, nothing more. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u28	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Caballero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. This initiative is late, this Government has a road map on green hydrogen. And at the risk of losing an eye for your intervention, as Mr Bel reminded us, I must thank you. I have to thank the People's Party, because listening from the mouth of PP leaders words like green hydrogen, just transition or renewable energies and that in a row there will be no cuts, paralysis or destruction, is a complete achievement. [[Applauds]] It is an achievement that the right hand has surrendered to the evidence, stopped listening to Rajoy's cousin and, even when towing, accepts the just transition policies of the government of Pedro Sánchez. That recognition is done by you in the explanatory statement. They talk about the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, approved by the government of Pedro Sánchez; they talk about the green hydrogen road map, approved by the government of Pedro Sánchez; they talk about the decarbonization strategy 2050, approved by the government of Pedro Sánchez. When even you, who did the opposite and paralyzed everything, recognize the work of this Government, it is something that we will be doing well. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, even in your proposal you say - and I quote textually - that the use of green hydrogen will require future investments in research, development and innovation. Of course, what you have forgotten to say is that these investments are already here, they are called the Reconstruction, Transformation and Resilience Plan, was fought and won by President Pedro Sánchez and you boycotted him in Brussels. [[Applauds]] You're late and with a bad message. Today Spain has a way to be an international green hydrogen power: it has a PART with more than 16 billion euros of investment; programmes that are already being implemented, such as calls for pioneering and unique renewable hydrogen projects or the innovative hydrogen value chain; regulations that are already in place, such as the system of guarantees of the origin of renewable energies. A route that is already a reality, is a reality in cities like mine, like Puertollano, where the most important industrial plant with green hydrogen in Europe has been installed. That is why it is important not to give bandages, not to give 360-degree turns, as they propose today. Your bill will be hydrogen, I don't discuss it, but grey hydrogen, black hydrogen or blue hydrogen, not green hydrogen. [[Applauds]] You are proposing to liberalize the hydrogen market, which green hydrogen technology, not yet mature, competes with other more polluting hydrogen technologies. That is not the path marked by the European hydrogen strategy. We are in the first phase of development and it is important that in this first phase of development of green hydrogen we do things right, as the Socialists are doing, we make the effort to decarbonise the most polluting industries. Its proposal for liberalisation is quite the opposite. Its proposal represents a torpedo for the future of industrial areas linked to green hydrogen and linked to decarbonisation and which have an opportunity in the generation of these hydrogen valleys. It is not time to abandon the marked route. If you really want to support green hydrogen, welcome to this task. We've been waiting for you for a long time, but before that it's important for you to take a conscientious examination. When you came to the government with Mr Rajoy, you put the hatchet into the solar, a leading sector in our country, carrying the bread of over 100,000 families. You say you're betting on green hydrogen, but when they ruled, they put a cut of more than 75% in the National Hydrogen Center, which investigates green hydrogen. Yes, Requena, you were right, they were the first, the first to put the tax on the sun, the first to cut at the National Hydrogen Center. [[Applauds]] This proposal is not what this country expects of you. What your country expects is something very simple, very simple, really; what it needs from your party is one thing: that Mr Feijóo commits himself to the workers of all the industrial regions of the country, that he commits himself to the workers of Tarragona, Castellón, the Basque Country, Teruel or my area, of Puertollano, and that, first of all - if they do not interrupt me - he begs forgiveness for all the policies that destroyed thousands of jobs and that he undertakes not to do the same, that he undertakes that if they ever return to the government - very difficult and very long in time - they will not crush the hydrogen road map of the government of Pedro Sánchez, as if they crushed the renewables when they ruled. [[rumors.-Mr Herrero Bono: Come on, man!]] [[applause]] [[Rumors.-Mr.Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: This is not The comedy club]] I don't know what laughter this brings to some, but what caused them in the last decade was a lot of pain, I assure you. Some justified these cuts - cuts that caused pain - in the financial crisis, but what we are showing the socialists is that there can be equal crises but, without a doubt, the socialists will not give the same solutions. The socialists bet on social solutions to the Putin war and its effects. Also social solutions to the effects on economies, lowering taxes, VAT from light to 5%, which you had at 21%. I hope you'll be able to react when this is voted on in Congress. We make social solutions while sharing the burden with those who can contribute most at this time, such as energy. In short, this Government looks to the future, to the future of the twenty-first century, which will be that of green hydrogen, which will be that of industrial regions. The route of renewable hydrogen is marked, it's underway. What we ask of you is very simple: do not turn away, do not turn away. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u30	Thank you. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) in common (CGE), which regulates the process of voluntary integration of certain private educational centres in the public network of educational centres. [[File number 122/00218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u31	We continue with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comune, which regulates the process of voluntary integration of certain private educational establishments into the public network of educational establishments. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u32	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Einstein said education is what's left after forgetting what's been learned in school. This maxim shows us two things: the first, that education is a fundamental part of building a democratic society, and the second, that public school is also the one that detects and corrects those structural inequalities that affect our societies. For this reason, today United Podemos-En Comú Podemos presents this proposal of law to facilitate the voluntary integration of the concerted centers that request it from the public network. We need, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen the public education system in the face of a stage of cuts and corruption that has eroded public coffers, an economic crisis motivated by the invasion of Ukraine and the global pandemic that we have experienced. In this sense, the crisis of COVID-19 has taught us all a learning that is fundamental and that some people want to quickly forget: It is urgent to strengthen public services. Today no one doubts that, if we are emerging from the health crisis, it is thanks to the public health system, thanks to the efforts of health workers, thanks to public investment in vaccines and thanks to the efforts of all public administrations to curb its consequences; that is, the pandemic has shown us that the public is the solution, even to save lives. Those countries with strong public health systems have been able to save more lives than those with weaker health systems. That health lesson must also be applied to educational policies. At the beginning of the pandemic we discussed - you will remember - the right to education, whether to close schools or not, whether to guarantee distance education and how, whether to provide tablets for the student. Those debates also brought us an integral solution: public education must be used because it is the one that reaches the whole territory, that corrects inequalities, that guarantees equal opportunities and that generates social cohesion. Spain, as you know, is experiencing a structural deficit of public educational places in all its educational stages. According to data from the European Statistical Agency Eurostat, in 2017 Spain was the fourth country in Europe with the lowest presence of public education in the secondary stage and the third with the lowest presence in primary. In particular, only 69% of high school students and 68% of primary school students are enrolled in public schools, a percentage that puts us in the European queue alongside Belgium, the United Kingdom or Malta. Meanwhile, at the other end there are countries such as Ireland, Croatia, Germany or Finland, where more than 90% of enrollment in public schools. Therefore, this law that we are proposing today sets out two fundamental objectives. The first is to register with the rest of Europe in the presence of a public school: one hundred per cent in Ireland, 95 per cent in Finland, 94 per cent in Poland, 90 per cent in Germany, 87 per cent in Portugal or 78 per cent in France should be scenarios to be imitated. This proposal is not an amendment to all other networks nor does it want to be a confrontation between different types of education. This initiative aims to correct and ensure a clear order of preference. First, a public education of quality, first the public, first what is of all and of all, and this is precisely the second objective pursued by this law: to enforce the law, to enforce point 5 of article 109 of the LOMLOU, whose requirement is clear: 'Educational administrations will promote a progressive increase in school posts in the network of centres of public ownership'. If we add to this that the explanatory statement of the law itself - as it was also in the LOE - states that public education is the backbone of our educational system, it is clear that facilitating the incorporation of concerted schools that request it is part of the general interest. While the People's Party only cared about the elite school while leaving public education with cuts, we have to ensure that everyone in this country has the same opportunities to access public education and that it is also of quality. [[Applauds]] This is the difference between our educational model and that of the right: while they plunder the public so that citizenship has no choice but to go to private, we want the public to be the best of options. Freedom of choice does not exist when it is done to the detriment of public education; its freedom of choice, on the other hand, only means more money for concerts, as happens in Andalusia Where the leader of the People's Party has only increased the money to the concertee in exchange for privatizing the public, or as its not so new leader, who closed one in ten public schools in Galicia and eliminated 868 teaching places while firing subsidies to the private. I told you last week and I remember it is, the collapse of the public is the possibility condition of your private business. Its philosophy is that the worse the public, the better the private; the worse the quality of the public, the better their pockets. I would like to make it clear that this proposal for the integration of concerted centres into the public network must be based on three parameters: the first, voluntary. It is clear throughout the text that the request by the concerted schools, upon request, will be a voluntary request. No one is going to force anyone, no hidden powers or political interests will force the concerted centres, rather it is a pragmatic measure. There are concerted centres that for various reasons have gone through a complicated economic situation and some of them threaten to close. This situation can help families to be calm about the future of their children, to allow the continuity of professionals and also to strengthen our public education system. It would therefore be a measure in which everyone wins: centres, families, pupils and also the public education system. The second parameter: labour guarantees. Allowing no worker from any educational institution to lose their job during such an integration process has also obsessed us and there are regulatory mechanisms that allow it. And, third parameter: the most scrupulous of competitive respect. In Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos, as you know, we believe in the decentralized state and, therefore, we defend the competences that autonomous communities have in many social policies, including educational policies. Over the past 40 years, it has been shown that competitive decentralization in education has been beneficial for all Spaniards and needs to be expanded. Therefore, in the proposed law we argue that the administration on which the entire integration process must be led is not the State nor the ministry, but the autonomous communities and the education councils, which have the competences. We have the example promoted by Councillor Bargalló in Catalonia, with the adoption last year of a decree to facilitate the integration of private centers in the public network, which is already working. The last school in which it has been implemented has been L'Academia Cultura, in Hospitalet de Llobregat, in the neighborhood of Collblanc-La Torrassa, a neighborhood with deficit of public places and a complicated situation. It has been precisely the families of this concerted centre themselves that have been organized to carry out the integration of this centre into the public network. It has therefore been a collective victory: with families demanding the integration of the school; with the work of Workers' Commissions, with committed people, such as the former Secretary General of Education, Manel Pulido; and with a historic vote of almost all parliamentary groups in the Parliament, who voted in favour of a motion presented by our spokesman in the City Hall of L'Hospitalet, Ana González, and by our deputy Joan Carles Gallego. Now, the Cultural Academy is already a public school, now it is the Institut Escola Maria Miret. The entire faculty and studentship has also passed from 3 to 16 years of age. It has been complicated with the municipal government of the Socialist Party looking elsewhere, but the joint and collective struggle of the entire educational community in the end has made the Cultural Academy part of the public network in Catalonia today. We have that example and last week, as you know, we also adopted a non-law proposal from the Socialist Party on the defence and promotion of public school. After that debate, this is the first initiative where you will really see who is concretely committed to public school and who is not. [[Applauds]] We will hear this afternoon that the proposal is not possible. I will give you four examples, in addition to L'Hospitalet, which I have already told you. Between 1983 and 1988, the Government of Catalonia, on the proposal of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, passed a law for 71 concerted schools of CEPEPC to be incorporated into the Catalan public network. In 1988, the first time the Socialist Party arrived at the Education Council in Euskadi, it passed the confluence law so that private Ikastolas would pass to the public network. More recently, as I told you, Councillor Bargalló passed a decree in Catalonia that is already allowing concerted schools to go to the public network, or in Barcelona six schools are already integrated into the public network of the city. They say in my neighborhood - and it's over, president - that anyone who doesn't want something is looking for an excuse and that whoever wants it is a solution. We want a solution for the lack of public places in Spain. Whoever pursues an excuse to say so this afternoon from this rostrum. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u33	Thank you. In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that with the examples you have given of what should not be applied, you have not been very clear, because you set examples for the President of Andalusia and the former President of Galicia, who have an absolute majority. You want, instead of copying those who have absolute majority, to copy you, who in Andalusia went from seventeen seats to not appearing on the lists. [[Applauds]] For I think it is better always to copy the one that, at least, is seen to be supported by the citizens. He said one thing that is true, that education is fundamental. That is why you bring this here, because, as you know and have also said, it does not make any sense for this initiative to be brought here. Logically, the autonomous community, which is the one that pays for education and can pay for buildings through the municipalities or through the autonomous community itself, can do this without this initiative being addressed to Congress. I suppose that initiative brings you here - although I don't know what the Socialist Party will do, because this is derived from those covets that you usually have between you - because this hung you up when the last educational law was passed in Congress, where I imagine you aspired that this would have been introduced by the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party did not heed you. In short, what do you want? The usual: end the concerted education. What are you doing in this case? For what they do is to suffocate and grab the concerted education from the neck and, when it is almost dead and breathless, then they say: we give you the solution, now we will do you the favor and let you sell us your school, teachers in five years will have the option to pass some oppositions and be part of public education, and of course, students, in this case, parents, will not have the option to choose the school they had chosen, because it is obvious - and we all know that - that their relationship with freedom is quite limited. In this regard, it is a way of avoiding article 27 of the Constitution itself. You are trying to end the concerted through always lowering the money that must be brought by the student to that teaching. You know that the money that is provided to the concerted is much less than the money that is provided to the public school through the budgets of each autonomous community. There's the data. Then he says something else that does not conform to reality when compared to Europe. You know that in Europe many of the countries you have mentioned do not make that distinction between concerted and public school, but rather talk about the education that is financed by the administrations and, obviously, as in Spain, also concerted education is financed by the public service, in this case, by the general budgets of the autonomous communities. Therefore, they are all part of the public network, but one is owned by the public and the other is owned by entities that are, which may be cooperative, by a religious entity or by any other system of which we have in Spain. But above all, the worst, as always, is the attack on freedom that you profess in each of your interventions. Because, in the end, what's wrong with people choosing? But what world do they live in? If you're talking like we've lived for years, I don't know how many years. If people have the right to choose and choose freely! That rich people go to the concert... but what do you say, man! But if it is precisely what the concerted has done, it is to allow anyone to go. Where one can go with money is to a private, but to a concertee goes anyone. [[Applauds]] That is the greatness of concerted teaching, which anyone can choose without having money, without his family having money and without coming I don't know where. That bothers you, that at the time of choosing each one choose whatever you want and choose whatever you want. If that's the deal, they wouldn't have to have a problem with that. He says that when the cuts came, only the public was cut. But what world does he live in? When there was less budget, there was less budget for all those funded by the administrations, both the public school and the concerted school, as both received public funding. Both had problems, in some cases because teachers generally charge less, as you well know, in concerted education than in public education. Therefore, it allows the model to work. But, yes, for the model to work, what needs to be done is to properly fund concerted education. Don't have that problem with the freedom of people, leave people and families who freely choose what they want for the education of their children and don't put yourselves in the house of the whole world. They've been doing a lot lately with everything you've approved from the point of view of the textbooks, that many of them in the eye are inhaled, because they're trying to indoctrinate through them with contents that seem to have made you one of you specifically, and not thinking, of course, about what happened in Spain or what might come in the future. Let parents choose what they want for their children. In short, with this initiative, what you intend to do is, once again, to skip article 27 of the Constitution in a way, that yes, sibilina, you have to say, drowning in concerted education, but with the sole objective of delimiting the freedom of people to choose the education they want for their families. I hope that the Constitutional Court, inter alia, when it decides on the issue, will say that the Education Act adopted in Congress is unconstitutional. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u35	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u36	Thank you, President. Get out of the way. One question: why can the United Nations Group bring this bill to this House when it is well aware that the regulation of the voluntary integration of certain private educational institutions into the public network, as they propose, is a competence that belongs to the autonomous communities? Last week we reminded the Socialist Group of the same fact in its argument for public school. Both of you, what are you looking for? We are going to abstain from taking this into consideration because we share that it is an issue that must be regulated, but from our territories. In the Basque Autonomous Community we have already agreed on this regulation in the educational pact reached between the four majority political forces since our planning, based on our own needs and realities, that is, from our perspective. The Basque Government will create the norm to legalize this step on the basis of the fulfilment of agreed conditions in our territories with the significant actors for the construction of a sovereign public education system, and not because Madrid is considering how to do so. The process of debate and consensus-building for the realization of the pact for education has begun in Navarre, although it is true that we are still far from achieving the goal. Among the contents of this one will not be disposable to create a norm that regulates what might be a future publication of some centers if they wish, always taking into account our perspective and our reality. At Euskal Herria we have begun to take firm steps towards the future sovereign education system that we desire for our nation. A public system that responds to the needs of people living and working in our people; a decentralized system that preserves the autonomy of educational institutions; a secular and free system that has Basque as its main axis and that also enhances multilingual competences in pupils; a system that takes into account the diversity of people and cultures, and that puts an end to the existing segregation due to socio-economic causes and the origin of pupils. In short, we advocate for a Euskal Hezkuntza Public System Burujabe Rantz. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u37	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Pick it up on. Very good afternoon to all and everyone. Mr Mena, you will agree with a number of previous interventions and I am sorry, but that is what there is. We will not support the proposal that you bring. We're not going to support her because I'm really sorry to say it, but what's left for us to see now? Is it going to turn out that you are as centralist or more than others to whom we have criticized so much together, even? Because you know perfectly well - others have already said this - that this proposal that they bring or pursue is not within the competence of this House. The goal should not be to publish everything; the goal must always be to guarantee a public square to anyone who needs it. It's two very different things. So, let's go through with it. First, the fire and then the egg. In the courts I say that you know perfectly well - other people have already said - that you have brought a proposal for a law, when you know that the competent ones in the matter, in this matter, are of the autonomous communities. And since you are competent in this area, you have given examples precisely of Catalonia and of Euskadi. That you haven't given another example? Why? Because the competent authorities in this area are the autonomous communities. The Autonomous Communities are competent in the field of education, and some have already exercised what you ask. I told him that a public square must always be guaranteed to anyone who needs it or who wants it. That is public responsibility, that is the responsibility that the competent administrations must take into account in this area. You were appealing to the general interest, and I agree, but let's not confuse. The general interest or the defence of the general interest is not synonymous with the competence of the State. In other words, it seems that we make a simile in which when it comes to the general interest, the competent one in it is only the State, and in this case, it is the Congress that has to adopt that. However, the defence of the general interest is perfectly valid with those who are competent in the matter, who in this case are the autonomous communities. There is another issue, and it is that the LOMLOU, which has recently been approved in this House, and with its support, establishes what should be done in its Article 109, programming of the network of centres, and Article 88, guarantees of gratuitousness. I guess they haven't changed their position since the LOMLOU was approved. They can therefore refer to what that law says that has recently been passed with its support, including. In the Basque Parliament this issue is already agreed, which shows here that where the competences lie, this and other issues can be resolved. The proximity of public policies is always an advantage and, from afar, things don't look right. In fact, the Education Adviser of the Basque Government has already presented the detailed timetable of the steps that will be taken in the next twelve years, steps reflected in the educational pact of the Basque Parliament. The actions presented to Parliament are set out in a plan to be implemented from 2022 to 2028, and the Department of Education will regularly report on the planned evolution of the timetable to the parliamentary groups signing the agreement. I think in Euskadi that we have carried it out. Besides, you've been part of it. In short, I will try to explain what is already being done in a long-term planned manner, as explained by the Education Adviser, Jokin Bildarratz, in a recent appearance in the Basque Parliament. Strategic planning of the Basque education system, governance and participation, equity and anti-segregation policies, together with educational transformation, are pillars for the impetus of the Basque education system. In this commitment reinforced by the public service, one of the priorities of the competent Basque education administration in this field is to approve a strategic plan for the public school that promotes a set of actions to improve its quality, such as measures to improve the added value of its centres, the consolidation of current staff and the creation of new educational figures, in addition to the stability of the faculty, the renovation, as well as the improvement of infrastructure. A commitment has also been made to ensure that any family wishing to have a place in a public school can have access to it. This is, in our view, the defence of the public school: that every citizen who wants to have guaranteed by the public authorities, by the competent administration, the place in the public school. [[The lady]] Nor can the service be confused with ownership. The education service is a public service and ownership, and in cases such as in Euskadi and other sites, the agreed theme is an example. Therefore, I believe that this proposal that you bring, on the one hand, is not the place, because the competent ones are those who are, that we have already quoted them, and on the other, it is something that is already regulated, and you have been participants in it. Therefore, Madam President, I repeat that we are not going to support this motion for a law for the reasons set out above - and that other parliamentary groups have put forward too - because, feeling it very much, we believe that it is neither the time nor the place nor have been right in your decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u40	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my speech by referring to a matter which has nothing to do with the content that we are going to discuss. I am referring to the terrible images we have seen in the Melilla fence, where more than twenty people have lost their lives. For humanity, we must regret the terrible situation that has been experienced on our borders and send a profound message of condolences to their families. With regard to the proposal for a law that we have before us today, the first thing that seems necessary to me is that our public education includes the possibility of families being able to school their children in a public centre and in a concerted centre. Liberals always defend the freedom of parents to choose the education they want for their children, as enshrined in our Constitution, and that is why we will not tolerate any progress in that war that United Podemos has established against the concerted school. In this regard, we will continue to defend the obligation of the Ministry of Education to have both options - the public and the concerted - so that they are viable and allow parents to freely choose the centre they want for their children. Entering into the background of the proposal, we remind the Lords of Podemos that it must be the autonomous communities within the framework of their competences, within the framework of the state law, that organize the educational offer in their territories. It will therefore be each autonomous community, depending on its demographics, that projects the need for classrooms for the coming years and the preferences of families for schooling. In fact, gentlemen of Podemos, in their own explanatory statement - and being aware of that, you have set it as an example - they recognize that in Catalonia they have already done so, that autonomy has legislative and regulatory capacity to do so without the need to pass a law at the state level. So why do they bring the need for a state law when it's really not necessary? Is it only to reschedule your need to stand up against the concerted school? We do not understand and do not consider this type of proposal appropriate. It is also important to reflect on the probable injustice of favouring the stay of teachers who do not have a position of official or are not acting officials in the centres for five years, which time is set for the removal of the position. The truth is that, although we understand that there is a will to provide job security to the workers of the educational institution, it is necessary to reflect on how this situation is explained to a person who has been opposing a job for a few years, or suffering from a huge job instability in the educational system as an interim. Citizens are concerned about the problems of real education, which matters to families. It is important that educational equity can be offered in both public and concerted schools, but for this we have to start on an equal footing. We have been calling for a long time for the need to update concert modules to match the funding of the school post across the network financed by public institutions. According to the latest data available to us, 25% of non-university students are enrolled in concerted centres. However, the cost of a student in the school agreed for the Administration itself is half of what it costs for a student in the public school. Therefore, there are clear conditions of inequality here. This means that of the 6000 euros that cost a public school place, the State only finances 3000 euros for the concerted place. The Administration must guarantee all pupils a free and equally funded school post, and this is not the case with concerted education. This underfunding of the concerted centres has been generating a flawed and perverse situation for years. What's going to happen? For it is the families who have to take on an expense that they should not take on, because the concerted school should also be free. But if what really happens is that you put the rope around your neck and you can't pay the staff because you don't get the necessary resources, you can't afford to pay your maintenance costs on the infrastructure issue either because you don't have the necessary income, in the end you're putting yourself in a position of economic disadvantage that we think needs to be corrected. In addition, as is often said, those families that are in the most vulnerable situation, if they have to pay quotas at the concerted school - because it is the General Administration that is not covering those quotas at the concerted school itself - are causing fewer children in the vulnerable economic situation to be able to access the concerted school itself. We therefore need to take into account the starting points and we also need to reflect on the consequences of demographic change in our country. More than how you want We can end the freedom of choice of center by families, we must think that if 800,000 students between the ages of 3 and 15 are to be lost in the coming years, we will need to rethink what we are going to do with the infrastructures we have. The reduction of students can be an opportunity to establish economic incentives for teachers to promote their continuing training, improve scholarship and study support systems or increase investment in services complementary to education, such as free school meals, individualized tutoring or other out-of-school courses associated with the objectives of the education system. For all that, we believe that what should be done is to ensure on equal terms the two lines of public education, both public and concerted schools. We believe that this should not be done at the cost of disappearance, of putting the rope around the neck economically to the concerted school. That is why we are not going to support this initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u42	Thank you, Madam President. We are going to vote in favour of this law, despite the fact that we are once again falling into the same mistake of re-centralizing the competitive invasion, and despite the fact that we are very much afraid that we will also again be faced with fireworks. Because if it is really about guaranteeing public school, there was a magnificent opportunity with the LOMLOU - and you are part of the Government - to achieve this, with an organic law that assures the public school, which also establishes in a very clear way the concerted as complementary or subsidiary of it, and with a prospect of progressive transformation, as it is doing, for example - with all the problems that this implies - the Portuguese Government, reducing the resources it allocates to the concerted school and progressively increasing with that resource the public offer and, therefore, in line with the fact that there will be a single public school network, which is what we advocate in the Galego Nationalist Block. I don't think we're violating anyone's freedom of choice. Mr García Adanero or the spokesman for Citizens said: what is the problem in choosing? Look, with your money choose what you want, with mine, not; with ours, not. With ours, we must strengthen the public school and a public education network, which really guarantees equal opportunities for all and for all. Who wants to go to another different school that goes to private school, but public resources must be for public school. Finally, I just want to reflect. I don't know if this is the most appropriate procedure. You put the case of Catalonia and talk about cooperatives, but in the case of Galicia this is probably more complex, as we are talking primarily about Catholic schools, religious schools and doctrinal schools.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u43	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u44	Finished. I doubt this was a procedure that would really work. But, as I was saying, I think LOMLOU was the right time to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u46	Thank you, President. The proposal for a common Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia common to us seems to us to be a very good starting point to start a debate - not to finish it - which has been postponed for a long time on the education system. For the first time, in my opinion, it sets a different and positive framework for this debate, by the way. Since the 1980s, the system of concerts has stabilized, we will have to acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that the system of concerts is not uniform at all. It is not, and therefore we cannot continue to hold a debate of the twentieth century in the twenty-first century on a model that has changed substantially. There are cooperative models, there are small educational projects and large projects and, finally, there are investment projects currently seeking to deploy education as a business in our country. [[The Lord]] That is why the proposal is timely, because it works against small projects, cooperative projects, etc. That is what is straining the different educational projects. That is why the proposal for a law that is before us today, according to our opinion, fulfils two objectives. Firstly, to help, encourage, save or support educational projects that are very important to our respective territories and are drowned and suffocated; and secondly, to advance and strengthen the public system, making the two models an assimilable system. Like I said, it's a starting point. We should then work on many aspects of teaching and other aspects such as those I have just mentioned, but it seems to us that it is time to have a different debate on educational models and guarantees of equity and equality in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u47	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u48	Good morning. There seems to be a competition between government parties to see who defends the public school the most. Last week we were presented with a GNP to promote it, but not to mention the budget, which makes what was requested unworkable. Now we see a legislative proposal for the concerted action to be integrated into the public network, but here the problem, among others, is also in funding. I do not think I am going to say anything new in my presentation that has not already been said by different speakers. I would like to comment on a number of points. This proposal for a law implies a competitive invasion - it has already been said -, unlike what you think, Mr Mena. Why is it necessary to have an agreement involving the ministry if the autonomous communities have exclusive competence? He says his proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, it seems that what you want is to renationalize through the back door. They mention a law of the Parliament of Catalonia and there is also a decree law that you mentioned, Mr Mena, but what happens is that Catalonia has already legislated and we do not need Spain to legislate on matters in which we have exclusive competence. Both Spanish legislation and case law speak of a system of complementarity, not of subsidiarity, between educational establishments supported by public funds, which may be public or concerted; neither legislation nor case law speaks of a single public network of which the other is subsidiary. The legislation provides for the obligation to ensure free education, respecting educational pluralism and equity, compatible with freedom to create own educational models and responding to a social function. Maybe you'll tell me all this doesn't discuss it. It is true that they do not do so directly, but they are doing so indirectly. I'm going back to the beginning, to funding. In order to develop an educational project, funding is needed and, at present, the concerted centres do not receive adequate funding from the Government's quota. [[The lady]] Because of this underfunding, some concerted centres have been set up to integrate into the network of public ownership centres, not by their will, but by indirect obligation; and this implies the creation of a single model. Funding should respond to the spirit and essence of the norm and allow for a plural and equitable education system. The solution for the concerted centres should not be forced to lose their uniqueness; what they need is for the concert module set by the Government to increase and this will enable them to bear their expenses. This should be the solution that you would have to provide. The legislation provides for the free use of public-funded schools, including public-owned and concerted schools. Fill it out and provide resources for everyone. Do not see the fundamental problem and that, to be obvious, the solution that you propose is unification. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Unesco report of 2015, the diverse views in the education system are a value to be preserved. Instead of trying a single vision, encourage the existing that already works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u50	Thank you, President. Public money for public school, private money for private school. In Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya we want and we want to bet on a public school in català and quality. There is no quality education without more resources for public school and there is insufficient resources in the autonomous communities if no further transfers are made from Madrid. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will support this initiative, provided that more detailed and concrete funding is guaranteed by the Government of Unity Podemos and PSOE and, above all, if our competences are respected. As far as the content of the proposal is concerned, we fully share it and are glad that already in the explanatory statement they indicate that they follow the steps that the Department of Education of Catalonia started a few years ago. And it is that the Government of the Generalitat has already adopted a decree law that, responding to article 45.3 of the law, helps to respond both to requests from local authorities to be integrated into the public network and also to situations facing the future of some private centres to be integrated. This will give stability to the staff of the centres, maintaining their staff and also their working conditions. With the decree law we clearly have an instrument that helps to combat school segregation and to strengthen the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya, allowing, therefore, to cover the needs of schooling in view of the next courses. We believe that the structural evolution of our education system calls for us to be more like European models, where public funds are for public schools, as it should be. Currently, there is a clear variability in the enrolment trend in early childhood education, with reference to the percentages between public and concerted schools. In Catalonia, for example, there is a remarkable increase in demand for public places, especially in children and primary schools, but also in secondary schools. This growing tendency to school children preferably in public institutions, especially after the pandemic, coupled with the impact on the same centres that the absorption of the population of compulsory schooling age associated with migratory movements and the mobility of their families has indirectly led to the cessation of activities in various private concerted educational institutions, the fruits of the low demand and the impossibility of continuing to offer a motivating project for families. However, any cessation is accompanied by an important social and economic impact on the neighborhood or city where they are located. We therefore believe that it is our responsibility to legislate in order to facilitate and ensure the programming of the educational offer, establishing on a territorial basis - and, of course, respecting our competences - the needs for schooling, and to do so in the medium and long term. This is the only way to guarantee the right of everyone to quality education and to ensure the individual rights of pupils and their mothers, parents or guardians, while ensuring a balanced schooling of pupils with specific educational support needs that fosters social cohesion. Finally, we must remember once again that PISA data are blunt. Concerted and private schools in Spain all they do is socially select their students, but they don't get them to get better results than the students of the public. The conclusion is therefore clear: more public and more resources. More public and more resources, because we bet on a quality school, inserted in the environment, equitable, inclusive, secular, democratic and, above all, affordable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs Bassa. Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u52	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A unique, public and secular school. That is the dream of Podemos that crystallizes in what we propose today, which is basically to stay with the concerted centers that go wrong and that nobody wants, either because they have lost the spirit of the ideal that animated them, either because they are on the verge of economic bankruptcy, and so appear as their savior. By the way, gentlemen of Podemos, these centers are also public, only that, in addition to public, they are free. [[Applauds]] That is, all very far from a serious proposal to improve public education in Spain, without objectives, without project, without adaptation to the times we live, with four maximums and forward. According to data from the Ministry of Education, public education is the one that loses more students in recent years than private and concerted education. But we already know that the communists, like the fascists, know that the way to do things with a nation is first of all by adding to the educational system, even if that comes out expensive - as is the case - because each school that passes to the state costs twice as much to the administration as if it is administered by the concerted. [[Applauds]] Now the situation is more serious. In addition to the communist education that fosters one-on-one education in certain toxic, hate-poisoned ideologies, which lead to moral and economic misery and which disables young people to develop their own thinking, we now have the addition of the furious attack on children through an affective-sexual education of gender ideology that will leave generations of children not only incapable of long-range love - which is based on dedication, sacrifice, generosity, selfless donation and whose most beautiful fruit are children - but which will leave them absolutely confused about their sexual identity, which is one of the members from which personal identity is shaped. This bill is full of lies. One of them is that it claims to be based on the Spanish Constitution. In the explanatory statement, public education is confused with education, adding freely to the constitutional text, article 27.4 of which simply states that basic education is compulsory and free of charge. What happens is that, once again, we can confuse gratuitousness with the state and the public, but again we are here to remind you that gratuitousness can be achieved in many ways. In the field of education, one of them is the concerted school; another is the school check, which operates in many European countries and is rapidly opening up in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, in order to legislate in accordance with the Constitution, article 27 must be read and interpreted in its entirety, without infringing any of the paragraphs that make up it. In particular, article 27.3, which refers to the right of parents to educate their children according to their own convictions, should not be overlooked. [[Applauds]] I wish this were guaranteed by the public school. We will all sign for taking our children to the school that is next door to home, to a school where our children learn what to learn in school: to read, write and think through what their teachers teach them in different subjects. However, the reality is that many families are making a great effort to take their children to other schools that respond to the values and principles with which they want to educate them, and in the humblest areas there is more demand. Many of these concerted schools are a real oasis in neighbourhoods where life for children and young people is very difficult. [[Applauds]] With this bill, aware of the difficult situation in the concerted school, We want to give all kinds of facilities for them to give up their educational projects and quickly take advantage of those schools in crisis. But let's see what the parties involved say, the representatives of the concerted school. I hope that no concerted school will become public, says Meritxell Ruiz, secretary general of the Christian School of Catalonia. Luis Centeno, secretary general of Catholic Schools, who joins 2000 centres and 1,200 000 pupils, says: "We can not stop harassing the concerted one. The LOMLOU is short and they want to take advantage of the last year of government to encourage public-concerted confrontation; a drama for our educational system. To Alfonso Aguiló, president of CECE, the text of Podemos reminds him of the nationalization plans that have been so common in authoritarian regimes: Instead of financing the concerted, they prefer to suffocate it and then absorb it at a balance price. On the basis of public money, he says, they want to reduce plurality in school and that, in addition to being unfair, is a step backwards in rights. In the light of these statements, it is clear that this proposal for a law does not at all form part of the social consensus, since they have not even spoken to the affected party, which is the one that supposedly would want to be integrated 'voluntarily' - what a perverse euphemism! - into the public network. In fact, there are institutions run by families, professionals or other religious congregations that can assume schools and also some bishops would be disposed through diocesan schools. Just take off the phone and, if the educational administrations want to do something, offer help so that these other options can be viable. This measure is not going to achieve a more free, tolerant and cohesive society at all, as they say in the text of the bill, but more social confrontations, and I doubt that even the Socialist Group voted in favour. In VOX, what hurts us is that they are precisely the humblest and simplest Spaniards the most harmed by initiatives like this. Our dream is a public school of quality devoid of any ideology, with teachers and teachers with vocation, busy in transmitting knowledge to make their students more free and to ensure that the education they receive is truly a social lift. Teachers who transmit passion and love for knowledge and truth, the basis on which students can build their freedom and make their nation prosperous. I wish we had a public school where vulnerable families did not have to give up educating their children in their most intimate beliefs; a public school where mathematics and non-ecofeminism were taught...;
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u53	Mrs. Trias, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u54	I'm just finishing up. ... a public school that was a social elevator and a source of opportunities and not of 'de-generate' sexual assemblies and talks; a public school in which the most modest families did not have to leave their children concerned about whether they were going to have teachers or activists. I wish we had a public school that created free men and women. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Trias. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Jiménez Linuesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u56	Thank you, President. Mr Mena, abandon that speech that we can and the PSOE have already, because they are only two sides of the same coin in terms of public education. You stopped defending public education and the students of the public at the time when you passed the LOMLOU and its royal decrees, which all you do is eliminate essential curricular content for the training of our students and put their ideology in place. The only thing they get is that our students aren't trained to face a globalized world, so don't come bragging about public education defenders. [[Several Members: Very Good!-Applause]] In addition, today we have been presented with their intention to pass a law so that private centres - they say voluntarily - can join the public network. But this 'voluntaryly' will have to be said in quotes, because, when one does not give another option, the decision is no longer voluntary. If one thing we have learned in these years is that neither you nor the Government are reliable; therefore, we know that the intentions you have with this proposal are not those you claim to have. In addition, they have said on numerous occasions that you are looking for a Spanish education system that is exclusively public, with the violation of rights that this entails. We will start first by the Spanish Constitution, by that Constitution which you constantly despise and which states that basic education must be compulsory and free of charge. It further notes that it is for the public authorities to promote conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and the groups in which he or she is integrated to be real and effective. But we can also look at the Organic Law 8/1985 of 3 July, which tells us about the regulation of the right to education and defines the Spanish educational system as mixed or dual in nature, of complementary networks, in order to facilitate the exercise of the right of families to choose freely the educational centre and model they want for their children. To this end, the figure of the educational concert was established through the financing of the private institutions that meet the requirements of this law with public funds, so that families can choose not only the public offer, but also the offer of different social initiatives that promote the public authorities. We can also refer to the fact that in 2018 the Socialist Parliamentary Group's unconstitutionality appeal to LOMCE was rejected; it was rejected, among other things, because it was understood that in order to guarantee the free education, so that it is guaranteed constitutionally, it cannot refer exclusively to the public school. The freedom of private schools cannot be denied because my rights were violated: first, the right of parents to choose the educational centre and, secondly, the right to set up educational centres, which is enshrined in article 27.6 of the Spanish Constitution. However, it is clear that the Spanish educational system is mixed, and we have always understood this in the People's Parliamentary Group. The People's Party has already appealed to the Constitutional Court the LOMLOU in defence of educational freedom, challenging precepts that directly attack concerted education; because it attacks frontally the economic support of the concerted schools, inter alia, by banning contributions for various activities, as well as by excluding the gratuitousness of schooling from 0 to 3 years, limiting funding only to public places. What should be dealt with in this proposal for a law is that the amount of concert modules should ensure that education is provided free of charge, ensuring fair and necessary funding to meet educational challenges. In the end, its aim is nothing other than to stifle the concerted school to make it a subsidiary and non-dispensable, and thus tackle its disappearance. In their text they say that money from the ministry is going to be allocated to open lines of economic aid for those municipalities and for those autonomous governments that cannot take charge of the centers that request integration. Would it not be better to allocate this money to ensure that the agreed centres are not forced to close down and allocate this money to the improvement of existing educational centres? Because its intention is nothing other than to take advantage of the recently approved LOMLOU to launch it in its most radical version in as many schools as possible and to convert education into the instrument to be able to instill its ideology from the smallest and, moreover, to make disappear the schools that adhere to this network - mostly Catholic - and that there is increasingly less offer in religious values. I would like to say to Mr.Prayer that not only do families of high purchasing power take their children to concerted schools. What if a vulnerable family with limited resources wants their children to receive religious education? Are you going to deny them that right they have to be a vulnerable family? I think it would be very serious, actually. [[Applauds]] Forgive me for telling you that in that the People's Party will never be, they'll never find us. The People's Party is a party that likes freedom in its broadest sense. By carefully studying the text that they have presented to us, the need for them to clarify what is going to happen to the teachers is also emphasized. You talk a lot about job guarantees, but what's going to happen to the teachers who work in those centers? Leo, because you're contradicting each other. On the one hand, they are going to introduce them to the selective processes in a maximum of five years, because they say that they are going to conform to the labor regulations. What will happen if these people do not approve of the selective process? What's going to happen to those staff? They're keeping him in the centers? Are people who are career officers going to be able to choose these places or are going to have to wait for the staff of these centers to retire? You, as always as you put your hands on the staff and on the teaching staff, mount an incredible chaos and uncertainty; and, if not, ask them about the processes of teacher stabilization or you can also ask them what happened when they wanted to equate some teaching bodies. The only thing that happens is that you read and mount chaos absolutely with everything. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, we know that the only thing that the left is trying to do is to keep families out of all of this. Not once does the word 'parents' appear in your text, not once. Parents and families are left out of this process of integration of the centres. Their political game is to divide: they want us to divide men and women, interim officials and career officials, public schools and concerted and private schools. All you are interested in is that we are faced with so that our society is a weak society and so you can get into our way of living and our way of making decisions. [[Applauds]] You don't have to tell us what you intend to do with this bill, because we already know. All they want is for the concerted school to disappear.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u57	Mrs. Jiménez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u58	I'm done, President. Since we do not expect anything from you, nor do we expect anything from the Socialist Party, all we hope is that the Spaniards will put you in your place, which is outside the government and outside the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Alonso Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u60	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Our dear colleague Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba said that the greatest honor a politician can have is to be a deputy, that there was no other more relevant or more important or gratifying position. I reaffirm that: it is an honour to be a member of the PSOE. [[Applauds]] Because we are not just these one hundred and twenty Members, we are all the Socialists who have been working for 143 years to defend the public school. We have always been brave to defend it, Mr Mena, and we believe that the public school has to reach everywhere to generate opportunities, to guarantee an equal education of quality and vertebrate character, as our colleague Luz Martínez Seijo reminded us last week. [[Continue your intervention in Galician]] Not at all. The Socialists and the Socialists established the pillars of the public school, very solid pillars, which the PP governments are demolishing where they govern, removing teachers, grants, scholarships and programmes and lowering public education budgets. [[applause]] But here we are again! With Rajoy there was a cut of €92 billion in education, which meant cutting off the equal opportunities for many students in our country. The government of Pedro Sánchez extends the right to quality education for all, this year with an investment of 6036 million euros, almost three times more than the PP's last budget. With PP, cuts and PSOE, investments. [[Applauds]] With LOMLOU, a new phase has begun to recover the vertebral character of education in Spain, to achieve an inclusive educational model and to strengthen equity and look to the future. Equity! Thank you, Mr President, for that historic record in investment in scholarships: 2134 million. That's a lot of opportunities! Our politics come out of our heads, but it goes through our hearts. The government presided over by Pedro Sánchez is committed to a key educational network for emotional, physical, social and intellectual development, and it means, above all, avoiding the first barriers that can hinder the development of our girls and boys. If we want to improve education and if we want to improve our public education system, we must all work together, but it is true, Mr Mena, that what you have already said to you is that it invades the competences that belong to the autonomous communities. It is also true that he has been told that the current legislation has allowed an autonomous community to launch this resource when it is considered and that there is no obstacle to other communities doing so. And, just to make it clear, you have made reference to the Decree Law 10/2019 of Catalonia, but I have to remind you that since then only 20 centers, out of the total of 1300 concerted ones that exist in Catalonia, have accepted this procedure. In their proposal they raise the possibility of the acquisition or lease of other educational properties, but I will tell you here the reality that I know very well. In 2009, there were 1220 public centres in Galicia and two years ago the figure was 1082, according to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. There are 138 public centers closed! And do you know who ruled all those years? [[Applauds]] Alberto Núñez Feijoo. [[Rumors]] Feijóo has closed more than one in ten public schools in Galicia. It's not that they haven't rescued the public, it's that they want to finish it, Mr. Rego. You also talk about the incorporation of teachers into the public network. I am a teacher of public school and all and all professionals, great professionals, access the public service through an opposition competition and on the basis of the principles of equality, merit, capacity and publicity. Therefore, Mr Mena, your proposal does not seem feasible within the framework of existing labour and public employment regulations, as it could violate those constitutional principles. [[Mr. Mena Arca makes negative gestures]] In addition, I will continue to talk to you about the reality of my community. In the budgets of 2022 - you said - 868 teachers of Galician public education were eliminated. Who has prepared these budgets? Alberto Núñez Feijoo. [[Rumors]] During the years of the government of Feijóo, the education budget has been reduced by 113 million euros. In July of last year, the Official Gazette of Galicia published the closure of two public schools and a few weeks later, in August, announced the abolition of 127 public offer classrooms. This has represented about 150 less teachers than in the previous exercise. [[Continue your intervention in Galician.-Rumors.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u61	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u62	I cannot finish my speech without referring to you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. I have to confess that, as a teacher of public school, I have indoctrinate ideologically my student and I have told my students that they can be what they want, that they are encouraged to dream and occupy spaces and that they can be welders, scientists, programmers or ship captains. [[Applauds]] I indoctrinate my student by telling him that we are all going to make progress, those with high abilities, those with different abilities and who need extra help and those who have been born in other countries and are learning our two official languages. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u63	Mrs. Alonso, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u64	I'm on my way. But I still go beyond ideology and I tell you that the first thing is respect for others, the rules of education, not laughing at others and not insulting. That's what I've transmitted. It is a shame that you have not had teachers and teachers who have indoctrinated you in this way, although I think it is never too late to learn. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some of whom have stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u66	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the dismissal of the director of the CNI and the fulfilment of the Government's transparency obligations. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Tarno Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Alonso, when the government opposes the opposition leader, there is little left of the government. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] The People's Parliamentary Group, with this non-legislative proposal, seeks to know the real reasons for the dismissal of Dona Paz Esteban by the Government as director of the CNI. On 18 April, The New Yorker magazine revealed alleged listenings to Catalan public officials involved in the illegal referendum of October 2017, and on that day various members of the government denied the illegality of such listenings. On 27 April, Minister Robles in this Chamber asked: What does the State have to do when someone violates the Constitution? What do you have to do when you have secret relations with a country that is currently invading Ukraine? What do you have to do when someone declares independence? To that day, the Government and Mrs Robles were defending the effective work of our intelligence services and could not be otherwise. On 2 May, in a surprising communication, the Government reported that the phones of the President of the Government and the Minister of Defence were cyber-attacked. We later learned that the motives of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior were attacked. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u69	On 4 May, Mrs Robles in the Defence Commission said that it was a frivolity to accuse the secret services without any evidence that they could not defend themselves. On 5 May, the director of the CNI appeared on the Commission of Official Secrets and proved that all the proceedings carried out were in conformity with the current law. On 9 May, Sicilia, spokesman for the PSOE, acknowledged that there was not a single reason why the director of the CNI should not be in her position. On May 10, Mrs. Robles ceased to be Mrs. Paz Esteban. And we wonder, if everything has been legal: why does it stop? On 18 May, the Ombudsman stated that the CNI acted with respect to article 18.3 of the Spanish Constitution and article 12 of Act No. 11/2020 of the National Intelligence Centre, and that, in addition, the orders authorizing the hearing of the Supreme Court judge were more than extensively motivated. That is, all the actions of Mrs Esteban and the CNI were absolutely legal. I insist again: why then did they cease it? Do you intend to cover up the grave mistakes of others with this cessation? They may want to hide the real ones responsible for the security gap that has involved spying on the motive of the President of the Government and several ministers. It is difficult to put into words the very serious gap in national security that this intrusion entails, but I will set some examples so that the citizens can understand it. The attackers have had access to the president's photos, medical reports, bank accounts and messages. It's a scandal! These words are not of any conspirator - they are not even mine -, they are of Mr Echenique in this parliamentary seat, his partner in the government. What was on the president's cell phone? What about your family? What about the ministers? What are you hiding? Who are you afraid of? Will we ever know? Ladies and gentlemen, why, if, according to Mr Sánchez, there was a clear lack of security, those responsible for his safety, that is, the Director of the Office of the Presidency and the Secretary-General of the Presidency, have not been ceased? Why are you still in your posts? Why does a public official with forty years of experience cease for no clear reason, beyond apparently contenting the nationalist groups that support the Government? According to the RAE, felony means disloyalty and betrayal. Mrs Robles has behaved with Mrs Esteban and the CNI members as a felon, betrayed them and has been disloyal to them, and her signature in the royal decree of cessation is the best proof of this. There is no more infamous act than knowingly punishing an innocent. Is there more vileness than categorising as a replacement an all-ruled cessation? What will the members of our armed forces think of someone who is unable to bear the consequences of their actions? Do you really believe that you can trust a government that lies to you? Is it Mrs. Robles' understanding of the arrest of officials who fulfil her obligations as a defence of the State's security forces and bodies? Mrs Robles constantly presumes of her unbroken service to the State, but Mrs Esteban's cessation without any apparent justification, except to save her skin, will pursue her like a tear for life. [[Applauds]] The judges impart justice and Mrs Robles has forgotten what this word means. The Spaniards need and must know the truth of the cessation of the director of the CNI, why, who has pressed for it, if there has been external interference with this cessation, whose interference has been such and if the operation of our secret services has been affected during these months. Ladies and gentlemen, this matter remains to be resolved for a while. The appointment of a clearly phylosocialist director at the National Intelligence Centre and the changes of approach in the intelligence strategies or the forthcoming judicial statements of Minister Bolaños - who has not had the courage to go and make a statement and will do so in writing - will continue to give a lot of talk. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a worrying escalation in the assault on institutions by the Socialist Party, a clear symptom of a government in absolute decomposition. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is weakened without transparency, and that is why it is important for us to know the real reasons why the Government has ceased to support Mrs Paz Esteban. Thank you. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u70	Thank you, Mr. Tarno. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. In our group we have described this government on different occasions as an autocratic, totalitarian, despotic, manipulative and illegitimate government and many are the reasons and many are the different issues. We have said of him that he is a government that promotes unconstitutionality, as demonstrated in the states of alarm. It is also a government that promotes hatred against everyone who disagrees with it, especially against members of VOX, and a government that practices and promotes sectarianism, for example, with its laws of gender ideology and historical memorylessness and, of course, with climate fanaticism. VOX was right when he described the government as such and VOX is right when he says that in policy of ceses, also of high offices, what is the norm of this government is arbitrariness, whim, partisan actions or decisions and, of course, act to the dictate of what his separatist partners tell him or feminist movements and lobbies or external chavista pressures. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Today we talk about the purges of Sanchez - I said purges, someone will have heard fleas and will get nervous - and the purges of a government against two types of people. The list would be endless! We could first of all talk about those who are loyal to Spain, those who have been purged and stopped for defending the rule of law and legality. We will remember Colonel Sánchez Corbí, head of the UCO of the Civil Guard, with thirty-five years of unspeakable struggle against ETA, who denounced that there were not enough funds to carry out the operations and was overwhelmingly ceased in August 2018. We could talk about José Antonio Nieto, head of the work prevention services of the National Police Corps, who reported that there was a potentially deadly situation with the pandemic that was stalking Spain, calling itself an alarmist, and was shut down in March 2020. We could talk about Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, a man who stood out for his fight against ETA and was one of the best coordinators of the state security forces and bodies against the coup d'état of October 1, 2017, who did not want to give you the information that you wanted and that you asked for, information that could only be given to the judge because he was investigating the 8-M and the consequences of those demonstrations on the spread of the COVID, and was completely ceased in May 2020. Recently, we could talk about Juan Rodríguez Poo, president of the INE, of the National Institute of Statistics, who gave the data of the CPI and GDP, which did not like the government, and was completely ceased. And, why not, let's talk about the reason for this proposal, about Paz Esteban, director of the National Intelligence Center, whose coup partners said it couldn't be that she was investigating the coup players' mobile phones by court order. And now let's talk about the purges of those who did the dirty work to Sánchez: González Laya, Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, once he did the dirty work of bringing the terrorist leader of the Frente Polisario into Spain, was stopped; José Luis Ábalos, Minister of Transport, who did the dirty work of the suitcases of Vice President Chavista Delcy Rodríguez and was completely stopped; Juan Carlos Campo, Minister of Justice, who carried out the pardons of the coupts and, after doing so, was stopped, and Ivan Redondo himself, who maneuvered in all these ceses and tejemanes and orchestrated all these maneuvers against one and the other and was then completely stopped. By the way, the list goes on and we already know who's on it. Minister Marlaska, after you charge and discredit the state security forces and bodies, you will be the next to be purged. We have tabled an amendment calling for the necessary legal reforms to be made so that it is always necessary to justify before the various committees or before the plenary any termination of a high office, because that is true democracy, true transparency and accountability; all the rest are the totalitarian purges of a totalitarian government like that of Pedro Sánchez. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. Mr García Adanero has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Socialist spokesman said earlier that they taught women from girls to do what they wanted and to be what they wanted, but it is clear that a Spanish minister is not allowed to speak at a press conference. [[Laughter and applause]] In any case, the issue of the CNI is a very serious one, because the consequences it is having are obvious. We have all seen, in relation to what is happening with Morocco, not only Algeria's response and all that it entails, but the regrettable response of the President of the Government of Spain to the absolutely unnecessary death of so many innocent people, and all that without knowing the reasons that have led Spain to change its position on the situation in Morocco. Only if there is a very important problem or if you are very caught can you make these statements after, as I said, the violent death of all these people, who were not to blame for what is happening in Spain, Morocco or Algeria. But, unfortunately, we have become accustomed to the Spanish Government doing what it wants with the State institutions at the moment. Today there have been several spokespersons who have referred to statistics that have been published in Spain, and one thinks: but if they do not believe! Now, because they don't like what the INE says, they're also going after the INE and they want to take it off. They have done so with the CNI, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Constitutional Court, the company counting the votes, etc. All this is being done and the entire institutional system in Spain is being questioned just because it is one more day in La Moncloa. Of course, the CNI is no stranger to all that and we saw it at the beginning of the legislature when the first red lines passed; from these red lines, all the others have passed. Every day there is a new news and this one from the CNI, as I said, compared to today's news, begins to be anecdotal. It's a shame what you're doing! Not all the institutions in Spain can be questioned. This NATO summit is being held, about which half of the government is protesting and at the same time we are questioning the National Institute of Statistics, the Bank of Spain and everything that we do not like what it says. Therefore, one Government in these circumstances, when half of the Government is against the other half, the best thing it could do is to advance the elections in Spain so that in the end it is the citizens who decide the future of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u74	Thank you, Mr. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u75	Thank you, President. With regard to Pegasus, it is certain that the Spanish Government has responsibility in this case of espionage. In fact, the Department of National Security is a department created by the Rajoy Government, which the Government of PSOE and the United We Can maintain, and which played an undeniable role in the Pegasus case. He pointed out to Morocco as responsible for listening to the President of the Government and his ministers, but, in relation to the more than sixty people spied on in Catalonia and the Basque Country, we are still waiting for someone to take on responsibilities. The only thing we agree with the People's Party is that the director of the CNI has been a head of Turkish so as not to assume responsibilities. The government also had something to do with the persecution of the websites of Sunami Democrátic, the police charges in response to the judgements of the process in 2019 in Catalonia or the purchase of confidants. It's not new that we say the state buys confidants. In the last few days La Directa has published two of the cases in relation to Catalonia: an infiltrator in the movement for housing and in the independenceist left and another attempt at infiltration - which did not go well - in Jovent Republicà i Batec. Despite the opacity, we have three clear conclusions: the first is that they are spying on us for thinking, specifically because they are independentists, and this Margarita Robles threw him into parliamentary office on 28 April 2022; the second that the Government evades its responsibilities, lies in its statements and is imprisoned by the CNI and the ultra-conservative forces of the State, and the third is that a government spying on its opposition cannot be a democratic government. There can be no dialogue with a government that is not democratic. When words are repeated a lot, they are spent and their meaning is lost. As much as democracy and dialogue are repeated to the point of satiety, they do not serve if the concrete facts in which they are translated are espionage and repression. There is no dialogue or democracy or possible democratic path with a Government that lies and is imprisoned by the sewers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. In the face of the biggest case of certified espionage that has occurred in Europe, it is curious that the People's Party today, in the name of transparency, will bring an initiative to clarify the reasons for the dismissal of the director of the CNI; we do not see it badly, but it seems completely accessory to us. The important thing is that, after a plot that has had behind State institutions, the main thing remains to be clarified. The accessory is not the important thing; it is more, I think the important thing - political espionage to political representatives - seems to them even well if they are independentists. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we and we are not fools - I don't think citizenship either - and that is why cosmetic measures do not serve a scandal. In the face of a scandal that shames others, you cannot, on the basis of measures that do not clarify the substance of the matter, believe that this matter is closed. It is a matter that affects three areas - the People's Party said it is a crisis and I would define it as a scandal - different. The first has to do with espionage and authorizations to spy on more than eighteen people - they are not eighteen people, they are eighteen plus eleven hidden names, as well as leaked in the press -, representatives especially of the independentist cathalan movement, including a vice president, counselors, parliamentarians or lawyers, motivated on a false accusation; that is where the substance of the matter is. Authorization was sought from a judge with an argument that was known to be false and the merits of the case have not been clarified. But, moreover, a planned instrument has been used to prosecute terrorism or crimes of importance to prosecute political opposition. As one spokesman said earlier, Mrs Vehi, a democracy does not spy on political opponents, either with or without authorization. The second factor or the second area of this scandal has to do with mass espionage without judicial authorization, and in this one you are looking elsewhere, both you and you are not interested in investigating those who have access to this instrument that was behind that mass espionage without authorization, including several Members of this House, and I see that the Presidency of the House did not care too much about this scandal either. [[pointing out the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] On the other hand, the European Parliament and its Presidency did care and are investigating what has happened. Thirdly, there was a curious fact. In an attempt to remove its importance or cover this matter, the Government recognized that they had also been spied on by another Government. Of course, an unheard of fact, because, if it is true that States spy on each other, this recognition that they have spied on you is not usually very common. In addition, it was informally recognized that Morocco was surely behind this espionage, which left the State as a genuine pagan. The issue, as I said before, is that the Government has tried to solve the problem on the basis of cosmetic measures. First, we saw how the press was leaking everything that was then to be told in a commission; here we see that the Official Secrets Act is not so important. Secondly, the Committee on Official Secrets was convened, which had been blocked for several years, and there some Members did have access, in a censored or covered way, to the eighteen authorizations, for ten minutes; you will already explain to me why ten minutes and not as long as necessary. Subsequently, the director of the CNI stopped; I agree there that it has not been understood or have not been able to explain why, but I tell you that it is accessory. And finally, we were told that they were going to make changes in the CNI and, likewise, in the law of secrets, without deepening it, and there is the important thing. The main thing is to know who was behind that plot, who authorized it and who made the list, what is not authorized cases and, in the same way, to take swift and effective measures to ensure that this does not happen again, so that it does not happen again to anyone, because I tell you that a democratic state does not spy on political opponents, either with authorization or without it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u78	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u79	Thank you very much, President. I will speak briefly, because it will not affect issues that I share and that have already been pointed out by previous speakers. Simply by strictly following the case and the terms in which it has been formulated, I would like to point out that the political responsibilities of a public office should not be associated as the sole cause of non-compliance with legality when they occur, there is no doubt, and in any case there is political responsibility. However, we believe that there are cases in which, even if legality is complied with, political responsibility is not waived. Thus, by way of example, we believe that there is no doubt that the intelligence services of a country, in principle and at least, have the responsibility in monitoring whether the electronic devices of its president and other members of the Government have been attacked not on time, but over a considerable period of time. We also believe that the same political responsibility could arise when electronic devices from officials of other political forces and institutions with whom relevant political issues are being negotiated are being intervened; responsibility which, I also say as a hypothesis, if any, would be impractical for those in charge of such interventions not to recall them in circumstances such as those reported in order to be able to decide what is appropriate. And, also, the same political responsibility could involve those who are informed of intervention intelligence actions to be undertaken, but who do not fully and fully explain the scope of the means employed for this purpose or its extraordinary consequences of affecting the core of the right to personal and family privacy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the authors of the initiative we are debating, not always the fulfilment of legality is a Jordan that purifies the demand for political responsibility. In any case - I am finalizing, President, because I have already said that it would be brief - we do not understand how the People's Party requests to make public certain issues pertaining to the leadership of the National Intelligence Centre, when it has always been one of the greatest guardians of its opacity, as with the Official Secrets Act. If so, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you consider it, make your requests in the Committee on Reserved Funds, also called official secrets, and not in this plenary, let alone stand before this plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that I am pleased to be up here in the rostrum with the initiative that the People's Party has put forward, because it really raises an initiative that challenges the democratic quality of our country, and not because people who are trying to put an end to the stability of our institutions and to undermine the Spanish Constitution, but rather the democratic quality of our country because the Government wants to colonize all the institutions of the State. They set us the limit already very high and it seems that when the Government has committed a trope in this sense it will no longer be able to commit another, but nevertheless we are going all the time raising the threshold of pain and establishing all the time higher scandals. The summit is this morning, where he has agreed with Bildu, to bring forward the law of democratic memory, the investigation of the crimes of Francoism until 1983, that is, the crimes of Francoism of Adolfo Suárez? I don't know if you remember that in 1983 you also ruled. I think Bildu's calling you Francois, too. You continue to reach agreements with them, with Bildu, with those who supported terrorism, with those who have not asked for forgiveness, with those who in the lead years, with three hundred dead at the time of the UCD, justified the armed struggle. This is a campaign that orchestrated the separatist movement with a report from a gentleman who last morning will meet at a press conference with the separatists themselves who are launching this campaign. A report that I tell you that in court it was not going to last half a second, because it has no impartiality or any rigour; it is simply a bazofia. Most Spaniards are not worried that people who try to attack the good name of Spain are legally being spied on. Most of the Spaniards are concerned when, at the time of the People's Party government, Puigdemont left in the trunk of a car or when the CNI was unable to find the ballot boxes where you were going to commit your corresponding crimes, those that say you will commit again; that is, because it was wrong to spy because it was little, because, in fact, we had to have been more effective. But the problem is not the negligence of the People's Party, the problem is that the Socialist Party does the worst it can do with you, that it is to give you reason with the pantomime that mounts with you in your meetings, to make the Spaniards see that they might agree that in this country people are put in jail simply for their ideas - we have heard it here a while ago - or that people are spying on simply for their ideology. And that's why Mr. Bolaños comes running, when these events take place he goes to Catalonia, and he mounts a pantomime and says: I'm not very angry with you guys, it's not going to be that Pedro Sánchez is not stable in the government. And since you are ambiguous, you ask for the head of the Minister of Defense, and then the Socialist Party offers you the head of Stephen's Peace. Of course we will vote in favour of this initiative. Of course, we have no hope that Pedro Sánchez has the slightest dignity and explains to the Spaniards why the director of the National Intelligence Centre was stopped. Mr Iñarritu himself shows that, in fact, it has not been explained. And as Mr Ortega Smith said - by the way, she always forgets to quote me - Mrs Esteban joins a few who, in fact, were purged by saying no to Pedro Sánchez. Let's see if we set up an association and ask, even, to meet here in the Congress of Deputies - we would hardly know unless it was in the Ernest Lluch room - all those who are taking this government out of the way for thinking differently or simply trying to do our work as public servants. Separatism is not content with this, and then they call on the president of the Congress of Deputies to change the rules of access to the Commission of Official Secrets. And there, in the Official Secrets Commission, they don't believe that the information was obtained legally. Mr Iñarritu, what I believe is that Mrs Aizpurua, fulfilling her duty not to tell the things that were said there, has not told you anything about what happened there, because you have only referred to the ten minutes or the eighteen authorizations. Anyway, I'm really glad they didn't tell you anything. But with the cessation of Peace Stephen was not enough either. Now we have to call the blackmail table, the shame table, we have to make Spain kneel before the Generalitat of Catalonia. And then Mr Bolaños comes and tells us that he is going to try to defuse this conflict between apparently two sovereign states called Catalonia and Spain. Look at you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you are absolutely corrosive with the institutions. They are the caustic soda of the institutions. The last is - and I conclude, President - what has been said here about the director of the National Institute of Statistics. I tell you that we have put forward an initiative in the European Parliament, because there is a European regulation that says that this cannot be done, which you have done: to remove people who are uncomfortable with it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u83	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that in the non-legislative proposal that is now before you you point out that the management of the espionage crisis would be contrary to transparency and that the CNI acted in accordance with the laws, and over time the opposite has been shown. It gives one the feeling that the saying of pointing to the moon and looking at the finger is reproduced here. In the matter of the CNI and the dismissal of your director, you are only concerned about the real reasons for your dismissal, but I sincerely believe that we should be much more concerned about what this affects people's freedoms or rights. Today, a judgement of the European Court of Human Rights condemns Spain for violating the right to privacy of thirty-three judges whose photographs of their NIDs leaked to the press. These kinds of actions are the ones that concern us. We are not so concerned about the explanations regarding the termination or replacement, according to the minister, of the director of the CNI, but this systematic violation by the Spanish State of the fundamental rights of the people. Like I said, instead of looking at the finger, we like to look at the moon. In his non-law proposal he does not come out, but I assure him that he will do so in the Diario de Sesiones, which has been spying on more than sixty people, the vast majority without judicial authorization. What transcended the media was that it was only eighteen, of the more than sixty that had been investigated with Pegasus, a program that invades people's privacy. It was a terrible management, and it's not just about whether or not to stop or replace it, it's about knowing what reality will eventually come to light. The democratic quality, transparency or explanation you could ask Mr Fernández Díaz, who has already been credited with lying at the seat of the Congress of Deputies. Therefore, citizens are more concerned about the invasion of their rights and freedoms and not these alleged reasons that you want to bring to light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u84	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u85	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. A Junts per Catalunya will rarely see you coincide with Fernández Díaz's party, which lied like a bellaco, here next door and a few months ago, but we have to recognize that the questions that are asked in this initiative are correct, although we do not share their budgets. Why did you dismiss the director of the CNI? We have several versions. According to the Minister of Defence, Mrs. Robles, there was a simple rendition of two of the state's servants, without any circumstance that motivated it. It replaces a high-ranking official capable of anything by the homeland with another high-ranking civil servant. According to Minister Bolaños, it would have been a security breach that justified the dismissal of Ms. Paz Esteban, although it seems that the security of the Government was not within her jurisdiction. According to VOX, she was purged because she was very facsimile, like the whole mummies gallery she cited, with De los Cobos at the front. The reality is that in the matter of espionage we have facts proven by Citizen Lab that put the regime of guarantees, rights and freedoms of the Spanish State in check. It was a massive and ideological espionage to the political representatives of Catalan independence, their family environments, journalists and lawyers, with a massive violation of rights, privacy, the secrecy of communications and the right to defence. Faced with this, the Government has flooded us from the very beginning with stories, falsehoods and half-truths. First he denied the facts: in Spain he was not spying. Then discredit the source, Citizen Lab - I see that Mr. Bal still continues with this -. Later, before the evidence: well, he was spying, but little and well; there were eighteen people and with judicial authorization. In the middle, Mrs Robles skips the subconscious and lets go of the fact that if you spy it is because you deserve it, that famous what a state has to do, what a government has to do if independence is declared. Well, talk, huh? And, in the end, Mr Bolaños, one Monday morning he gets out of the joke that, because of a security breach consisting of external espionage, the government is actually a victim and not responsible for espionage. This story seems to us to be a smokescreen, with the sole aim of confusing about what is really important, the massive violation of fundamental rights through the Pegasus programme to pursue political dissidents from the Catalan national minority, a distraction operation that ended with the dismissal of Mrs. Paz Esteban, a disposable fuse for the Government that served to make it seem, even if nobody specifically says so, that the Government has done something. We want to know the truth, not accidental. We want to know the bottom line, what happened to espionage. Here the solution was through the creation of a parliamentary commission of inquiry in order to know why political opponents were being spyed on, who decided who was being spyed on and who should answer. And what happened to this parliamentary investigation? Because the monarchy block, VOX, PP and PSOE, opposed the investigation. So don't come here and confuse us about what you have to spy on, what you have to...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u86	Mr. Pagès, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u87	... to determine - I finish - whether the accidental dismissal of Mrs Esteban or other issues. Here the important thing is mass espionage and here no one has wanted to investigate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u89	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. It does not matter that the director of the CNI is returned if the Government still does not admit illegal espionage and does not declassify the information. What is the point of a cessation if your Minister and all your Government continue to suppress purely ideological issues? To espionage through Pegasus we must add a new mechanism of political persecution towards independence: infiltration. Last Sunday we learned that the Department of National Security contacted an ex-militant from Young Republicà, the youth of Esquerra Republicana, coercing you to return to the military in our organization and obtain information for the Spanish Government, thus violating the democratic right of association. Unfortunately for you, Enric Pérez had the courage to denounce him in the media; therefore, we have all the recordings that confirm this coercion. [[Applauds]] Not only did they miss the polls on October 1, they have not been able to hide their coercion nor have they been able to get the information they were looking for. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Members of the Socialist Party, they have the whole legislature filling their mouths, affirming and reaffirming that you intend to represent Catalan society, not only at 50%. Why, then, do they only work for 10% of Catalan society? Why then do they work only for the voters of the People's Party, Citizens' Party and VOX, who are almost invisible in Catalonia? Please listen to this carefully: whoever is in the Spanish Government, anti-Catalanism always persists. Explain to us, if not, why they do not work for more than 80% of Catalan society which is in favour of a referendum of self-determination in order to be able to decide how we organize ourselves, to be able to put democracy into practice. Please explain to us, if not, why they do not work for more than 80% of Catalan society, which wants to put an end to political repression once and for all through amnesty, in order to be able to freely exercise the right to freedom of expression, the right to association and the right to mobilization. Explain to us, if not, why they do not work for more than 90% of Catalan society that is in favour of the republic to stop being subjected to a corrupt monarchy and heir to the Franco regime. [[Applauds]] Please explain to us, if not, why they do not work for more than 90% of Catalan society which is in favour of the promotion of the Catalan language, in defence of cultural wealth and as an instrument of social cohesion. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do not represent Catalan society; indeed, you act even with the state's cloacas, consciously against the majority will of Catalan society. And, as they know that their interests will be damaged if they criticize the pillars of this state agreed with the heirs of Francoism, they choose to submit to them, to the People's Party that presents this initiative today and to its cloacas. The repression of Catalan independence is no longer just a legacy of the former Government, it is also a proactive action by that Government. Police infiltrations that have been published, both in Young Republicà and in Resistim al Gòtic, in Casal Lina Ódena and in SEPC, were initiated under the mandate of the current government, not under the mandate of the Rajoy government. If what they claim is that we are fleeing from this State, they are doing great; they are giving us reason when we say that whoever is in the Government, this State is irreformable. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comuno, Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u91	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, reading the explanatory statement of the People's Party's initiative, it is clear that the intention is not to debate a citizen's problem, but to erode the government, thereby making a supposed demand from the independence parties for the cessation of the former CNI director, Mrs Paz Esteban, which was not the case, as the various speakers who have spoken before me have said here. However, you know exactly what several parliamentary groups asked for: to derive political responsibilities after independent investigation and even, as has been said here, an independent parliamentary commission in which citizens could know in real time who the authors were and what methodologies were used in the case of Pegasus mass espionage. It is also clear that cybercrime is also not a matter of concern to the People's Party; at least you do not express anything about it in your initiative. However, I would like to stress that cybercrime represents one of the greatest challenges for technologically advanced societies, and in response the Government has adopted a national cybersecurity plan of EUR 1 billion. It is a plan coordinated by the Department of National Security which envisages around 150 initiatives for the next three years. In the Confederal Group we are fully aware of the importance of cybersecurity, both for the economic development of the country and for citizen security and the creation of conditions for the exercise of rights and freedoms, which is most important in the debate that concerns us today. That is why we in the Confederal Group are concerned about the unresolved case of Pegasus. According to Citizen Lab's report, close to sixty people would have been illegally and illegitimately spied on, lawyers, activists, journalists, deputies. In this case, it is a flagrant violation of fundamental rights, which, by the way, does not seem to matter to you on any of the rights. The illegal surveillance and control of journalists gives us a very special discomfort, because they mean a direct attack on the freedom of the press, as well as the protection of the sources that nourish journalistic work. On the other hand, the use of invasive privacy technologies, such as Pegasus, puts not only certain parties and social movements, but democracy itself, in check. Now, Pegasus is just one of so many programs that allow phone control. That is to say, Pegasus represents a fraction of the massive surveillance industry, and that is why we must demand national and European regulation against new techniques, new surveillance and espionage technologies. It is essential that all leftist political forces - it has become clear that mass espionage does not pose a problem for the right- let us work for a joint legal and political strategy, against methods of invasive espionage such as Pegasus. In the PP's initiative, by the way, both the rights of citizens and the future of democracy have no place, as nothing is said about it. I have to say that the Pegasus case expresses the illegal pact between States and private companies in the political and geopolitical battle for information, even coming to accept, as has been said here by some parties, the juxtaposition of surveillance and mass espionage. Every time this Member has submitted to the Committee on the Interior measures aimed at controlling cyber espionage and massive digital surveillance, the People's Party, the VOX Party and Citizens, in this case too, have voted against. Massive espionage like that of the Pegasus case, which to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, seems not to matter to you, has become a new form of authoritarianism and totalitarianism, a new method of repression and censorship when it applies to both political parties and journalists, lawyers and activists. We will vote against the proposal of the People's Party because it is an initiative that diverts the focus from the real citizen problem and that, as some previous spokesman said, is fixed on the finger, not on the moon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. For the Socialist Group, Mr Díaz Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Rosique, I do not think you have to deny the representation of the Socialist Party in Catalonia because it was precisely the one who won the last elections, and we must remember that. [[Applauds]] Mr Tarno, I say to you that we appreciate your concern about the President's data protection because I believe that is the issue. But there are flattery that weakens and sometimes hides dark and manipulative motives. If I had to write in a diary or in a logbook important issues of today, I would say that we are just a few hours away from the beginning of the NATO Summit, where important issues will be discussed that will affect almost a billion people, who are inhabitants of NATO countries; a few hours from a crucial, very important meeting, where the strategic concept of NATO's security and defence model will be established over the next ten years. And I think that this is an important fact, as well as the fact that today four months and three days ago a war began, a war in Ukraine, in Europe - we are not going to say at the gates of Europe - that no one wants and that only one gentleman, the warlord, Putin, is taking thousands and thousands of lives, while a very important global economic crisis is taking place, affecting Europe and Spain. And in this regard, I think it is also important to remember that the second package of fiscal, economic and social measures was adopted on Saturday to help families and groups to alleviate the economic situation that we are experiencing as a result of that war. I think that is important and that should be noted today, 28 June. I also think that this issue that is being brought up today, alongside what we are pointing out, is not so important. I do not know if you are looking for a sensationalist holder on the occasion of the reasons for the removal of a woman from the CNI or if you are thinking that if every week there are twenty or thirty replacements and removals of officials, senior officials, there will be a debate on the issue here. I understand that this issue, first, invades powers that do not belong to Congress and, second, that we are getting into a matter that affects the rights of a senior official and I think we are exceeding ourselves. But the most important and most serious thing about this matter is that we want to focus on an official, and that means that we focus on institutions that are crucial to state security, such as the CNI, from a sensitivity to the functions that it performs with which we are precisely damaging and weakening it. I want to say that transparency has a risk, as we have seen here, that it is political opportunism, that political opportunism that is being exercised and with which it is considering not focusing on that issue that was pointed out more than a month ago. Here came the president, came the minister, told what happened and also addressed issues of reform, issues related to actions to prevent the repetition of what happened. A billion euros were put on the table in the next three years precisely to solve these problems of cybercrime, which affect not only the institutions but also the citizens, and I think that is the important thing about this issue. The important thing is not to replace one official at the head of one institution with another, because there are always organizational issues, there are always issues of improvement that need to be addressed. And in this sense, go ahead with our respect and consideration for the CNI, the people who have been in charge of his leadership and the person who is currently occupying that position. [[Applauds]] Really, if there is some kind of totalitarian mood on this issue we could say that it is precisely for you, because let's say that you look more like that bad bar amateur who sits to see the game, he looks at his team and is constantly commenting on problems for what he does: if you change the lines, because they change; if you change the left end, because it changes; if you advance the front, it also seems bad to him; if you delay, too, and finally, when the game wins, assume the shield, but, if you lose, trample the shirt.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u94	Mr. Díaz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u95	I'm done, Madam President. The CNI on our team. It is state policy and, therefore, we all have to be with the CNI. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Mr Tarno, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u97	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u98	Thank you very much. The vote will take place on the terms of the initiative. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE APPLICATION OF BIG TOOLS DATE FOR MOBILITY IN SPAIN. [[File number 162/000550]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u99	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the application of big data tools for mobility in Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u100	Thank you, President. Today we bring an initiative that many people may feel is not important. I know that we have many debates here that matter to citizens, but surely this is one of those debates that we are not aware of the importance they have for the future of many people. Surely, the majority of Members who are here, who are now speaking, are not aware that a large proportion of private companies accessing their data know which Members are currently in the Chamber. I don't know if they'll be aware of that, but it's a reality. And not only that, because surely the deputies who are chatting, who are uploading things to their social networks are not aware that there are private companies who know what they are uploading. Do you remember Celia Villalobos when he was caught playing Candy Crush? In that, compared to what private companies know about you, there was a big difference and I think we are not aware of it. [[The Lord]] This leads me to recognise that many Members are being made face to face with data, algorithms - I admit that I am not very good at humor, but I think I have tried to make this initiative a little more friendly -. [[Applauds]] Besides, I have a partner who sometimes gives the feeling that he has a BIDI reader on the retina. I say it by doing a grace, thinking about the civorgs and the future, but they believe that the future, which is often seen in science-fiction films, is already here and that the ones that are taking advantage of it are private companies to brutally increase their profits. The largest companies in this country and this world are companies that use the data for their benefit. Do you know why Google, Facebook, Amazon or Microsoft are the most important companies today? Because many of the data that Members and citizens use these are used to brutally increase their benefits. And, if we are not aware of that reality, if we do not put technology at the service of citizens, we may not rule tomorrow, but the big corporations, and I think that should concern us all. This, which seems very far away, is a reality. If you stop looking at the numbers of corporate corporations and the power they have in the world, you will see that many have more power and benefits than some countries. I insist, they can have more power than public corporations and states, and that's a reality. And we, who are in politics, have an obligation to understand the changes that are taking place and to take advantage of them for the majority of citizens, and that is what we are trying to do today with this initiative. They know that we have had great challenges in recent years thanks to technology, which has accelerated the changes. You know that we had a relatively recent conflict between the taxi and VTC caused by technology. What did politics do? Regular late because we do not arrive in time, as has happened with the law rider, with the rental of housing and as will happen with many other sectors. I sincerely believe that in politics and we begin to understand the changes that are taking place and the challenges of the future or we will really have a problem. It is interesting to see how, at the time when the greatest technological changes and advances are taking place, inequality in the world is also increasing. And we didn't think about why? It is certainly because private companies are using the full potential of technology for their benefit and policy is not being able to protect citizens and take advantage of technologies to boost all citizens, regardless of their economic resources, training and other resources. That is why I think this initiative is important, although I have a disadvantage, I recognise it. I normally speak to the first and the parliamentary group of the Government, the majority parliamentary group always has the advantage that, as we close, we can give the rest when they criticize us. But I recognize that today I am at a disadvantage and certainly many of those who intervene here will be able to make reference to my words without being able to replicate them. I think I understand what my partner is going to say and, as I have said many times, friend of Podemos, Rafa Mayoral. He'll talk about technology like the devil, like the one to fight. I believe that the left has an obligation to understand technology as something that has to improve people's lives, and that is why this debate is important. For this reason, if we do not now face this debate, I believe that tomorrow we will face many problems, and that for a simple reason, because, if we do not advance the changes, the changes will overcome us and surpass us. I'm asking myself a question. With all the data on the table, was it foreseeable that there would be a pandemic? Yeah, it was predictable there was a pandemic. Moreover, we should have had the opportunity from the policy to put the remedy, so that, if it reached a pandemic, as many people said, we could have faced the greatest guarantees; that is what politics has to do. But I also know that it is complicated when politics does those things strategically or in the future, because citizens don't understand why they do it. Remember when Zapatero bought a lot of vaccines for a possible flu that could spread and people criticized him? Can you imagine if we were ahead of the future and, with the prediction of a pandemic, we would now have bought many masks? People would have criticized us. That's why I think politics is at a disadvantage with the private side. The Government of Spain made a plan, made a strategy and has a department within the Presidency of the Government that is prospective to define or evaluate how the future can be, is called Spain 2050. The curious thing is that when this work was presented, which seems to me essential for us to go ahead with the challenges, the opposition of Pablo Casado, which seemed more radical than what we were going to have now, although I think that in that we were wrong - someone could have informed us that the opposition of Feijóo was going to be much more radical - the People's Party went out to criticize him and said: What are the PSOE and the Government worried about in the future if we have problems in the present? However, the reflection to be made is that the problems of the present are those that we have not been able to detect and solve in the past. That is why we have an obligation to make policy in capital letters, and that is why we present this initiative, to put tools, technology, data and algorithms at the service of citizens. If we don't, we'll probably have missed a golden opportunity. And we don't have to do it just with respect to mobility, we have to do it with respect to everything that's good for citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u101	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u102	I know that these debates - and I finish - are not understood by many citizens, but I think they are essential for us to move forward and tomorrow our country can compete with the big corporations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u103	Thank you. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Gimeno is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u104	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are again with big data, with the sursum string of technology, with anonymous mobile geolocation data. But have you wondered what happens in the territories where we have no mobiles, where there is no coverage? From what anonymous geolocation data will railway lines or bus services be decided? Perhaps it comes out of this geolocation from where there is no mobile coverage the new concessional road travel plan, which has suppressed thousands of stops in the municipalities of emptied Spain? Let us be realistic, let us leave the centrist urban vision that this proposal has. We cannot do everything from technologies that are not implemented throughout the territory. The big data will need for many years still to resort to consultations and surveys on the street. Rural mobility can hardly be judged by telephone movements, since there are places where we do not have coverage, and this makes, for example, that, in reference to the social bonus that is granted to finance public transport, a social bonus of ten euros, on most of the territories of Spain emptied the impact is zero, because there is no public transport. In emptied Spain you have to be born with a car under your arm and money to pay for the fuel. Let us already forget the centrist urban vision, let us pay attention to the mechanism that approved this plenary a year ago, in March 2021...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u105	Your Honor, you must finish your speech, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u106	Let us analyse all State policies from the perspective of the rural guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u107	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. This initiative by the Socialist Group in relation to the big data tools is very concise and also somewhat outdated, since it was registered almost a year and a half ago. However, this is an issue of growing importance to society, where progress has already been made within the European Union with new Community regulatory frameworks. In fact, last week the data governance regulation came into force, which Spain, like the other member countries, will have to apply directly from September next year. Ladies and gentlemen, digital change is leading us to very profound transformations and in this respect the four points of this initiative are relevant, although the Government has to be proactive in correcting the employment deficit that keeps Spain at the back of Europe in relation to activities relating to the data market, only ahead of Romania and Greece and very far from the Community average. That is why I have tabled an additional amendment. Today our labor market is unable to feed on skilled workers for the management of tools because there is a great drought of professionals with the right digital skills. Therefore, I consider it very necessary to move urgently forward in stimulating the training offer so that our companies do not encounter the current bottleneck and can face their day-to-day lives in a world that requires constant updates. I am afraid, in any case, that Mr Ramos' algorithms rejected my amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u110	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. This GNP presented by the PSOE is another of those which are declarations of good intentions, but it must also be said that it is timely because the Government needs an impetus in this area. It is true that things are being done in some sectors, but, in reality, then you find ministries that this big data should sound like Chinese, given the projects that come to this Congress; big data or other issues such as the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, blockchain, etc. Today we are talking about mobility, and some things have been done in this area. For example, the City of Santander has used big data for fifteen years in the monitoring and planning of traffic and public transport through the transport area of the University of Cantabria, just as the Government of Cantabria has used it to measure the IMD of the long-distance routes, or the same as the port of Santander, which already uses it to favor the development of the blockchain in the follow-up of the logistic chain of the goods. Finally, I want to say that the important thing is not so much the technology of the modes of mobility, but the future systems of mobility, that is, the complete interactive framework, which includes habits, routes, infrastructures, media, modes, in short, their fit in the city of the future with a sustainable approach. I end by quoting something new, which has already put into service the Council of Public Works of Cantabria, which is the use of artificial intelligence cameras to protect vulnerable users, i.e. cyclists, pedestrians, older people, etc. It's all about big data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u111	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u112	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The digitisation and use of personal devices give rise to a new generation, whose mobility will play a crucial role in the development of society. Public transport has to be useful for citizens so that they can carry out their daily activities in their day-to-day life: going to work, doing leisure activities, spending time with the family, studying. Only with efficient and well-articulated mobility can we ensure a quality of life for all citizens, regardless of the level of income or the place of residence. This new modality requires efficient resource management, with intermodal transport and communication nodes. We need to know how the population moves, but - careful, most importantly - also how it would want to move and can't do it. Mobility helps the socio-economic development of the territories, and for that reason we must be more demanding in the planning of mobility in territories at risk of depopulation; it is a fundamental part of the sustainability challenges we face today. The citizens, businesses and European institutions of the 21st century deserve to have our rights fully consolidated and guaranteed, and to be able to develop we must equip all territories with effective mobility. If we manage to plan and design infrastructure with transport nodes, we will unleash great potential in the most unpopulated territories and give the opportunity to reverse depopulation. With adequate mobility we can promote quality rural life, satisfy the aspirations of young women living where they live, increase socio-economic activity in the most punished areas. Now, with the price of cloud fuel, it is when public transport planning becomes more necessary, although this should be useful, and here we are referring to our amendment. To be effective and solve existing problems, information must be territorialized by provinces and types of transport. We need to know whether private or public transport has been used and it is very important that this information is always available from the competent authorities in the area of traffic control and surveillance of the Autonomous Communities. In the current climate emergency context and insurmountable prices, public transport must be the cornerstone of working classes, and must be affordable and reliable. We cannot continue to condone structural delays in public transport, and that is why with only the activation of big data applications we will not solve the problem. The information received must be checked on the spot and the incidences checked, which we will never receive because there is no proper transport node. Finally, the most important and essential thing is to balance public security and privacy. The feeling that we citizens have is that we have lost control of our data and that at any time we can be spied on for commercial purposes or, which is much worse, for political purposes. In short, inefficient management can lead to poor service to the population. Ensuring maximum data protection is a basic element in any big data project. For this reason, we have some questions to ask and we would like to be answered: How will they ensure compliance with data protection regulations? Are you going to allow, like last week, to control a group of young independenceists, such as the Young Republicà, and, instead of analyzing their demands, try to infiltrate a spy to control their movements? Are you going to allow big data technology to be used again to spy on the dissident? [[Applauds]] We would very much like to receive a negative answer to these questions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u113	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u114	Good afternoon. First, from our space, what we want to continue to demand is the right of peoples to peace, the need for an immediate ceasefire in the war in Ukraine and the opening of dialogue, an international peace conference that will enable a dialogue solution to the conflict. At the moment the conflict in Ukraine is not only affecting Ukraine and Russia, it is not only affecting the European Union, it is affecting all the peoples of the world and food security. I believe that the responsibility to uphold the principles of the Charter of the United Nations is the obligation of all the democrats of the world to the belligerent voraciousness that has taken over parliaments and the media today. [[Applauds]] Today we are talking about big data and the possibilities that it offers us, but, reading the non-legislative proposal put forward by the PSOE, we believe that there is a lack of a key element, that is, the possibilities of public-private cooperation, even textually from one of the major corporations, which is practically a monopoly in the field of new technologies and also has at present a higher capacity for billing than that of many States of the world and handles an uncontrollable volume of data on the part of States, and to that there must be a democratic response. The ability of peoples to be self-governing also depends on their ability to dispose of their own resources, and that means that it is necessary to start thinking about technological sovereignty logics that precisely allow peoples to manage their own data, without relying on large corporations, which, unfortunately, are not in practice under the control of any State, but in many cases operate above them. In addition, we know that many of these technological enterprises have also been introduced in certain sectors by implementing the logics of job insecurity, abuse of consumer law, circumvention of tax law, attack on the tax law of countries, avoiding contributing to the well-being of all citizens through their economic activity, as must be the case in a democratic society. Obviously, in a non-democratic society that would not be necessary, we would not need taxes and we would not, of course, need social benefits. We could just settle for killing each other. We believe in a democratic society where those who have the most have to pay more. We believe that it is necessary to drive a powerful software industry in our country that allows us to face the challenges of the future. We believe that public transport applications are necessary to deal with those apps and disruptive companies that attack our sovereignty, that attack tax obligations that evade what they do not contribute, that attack workers' rights and that abuse consumers, avoiding their responsibilities in the face of legality. And we believe that, on the one hand, the legal system obviously has to pursue them, but, on the other hand, we need its own tools, tools that guarantee people mobility and technological access to transport from the public, that they also guarantee that they are not black boxes that are not known what is inside, but that they have been created from the public with public patents to defend the rights of the whole citizenry. For us and for us, defending technological sovereignty is part of the process of democratic construction, because the main threat that exists in the world today to democracy is the large corporations that do not have control over States and against which States do not have their own tools to meet the needs of populations. We have an obligation to create these democratic tools and to put them at the service of the whole population. That is to strengthen democracy and that is to strengthen our country's sovereignty over the abuses of the great transnationals. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u115	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cortés Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u116	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, with the situation that the Spanish are going through with petrol at 2.20 euros, the light that keeps coming up after its useless gas cap, the food for the clouds, the mortgages that keep growing drowning even more families and the interests of the national debt by eating the public budget, I do not understand, sincerely, that big data is a priority right now for the Socialist Party. I mean it. I see that you have learned absolutely nothing about the outcome of the Andalusian elections, absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]] However, obviously, if you want to talk about big data, let's talk about big data. The non-legislative proposal addresses the use of information generated in citizens' mobility to plan transport services and infrastructure. Indeed, millions of citizens travel through our cities across the country using all kinds of means of transport, airplanes, trains, cars, bicycles, skateboards, boats, etc. The information of all these movements - time, means of transport they use, occupations of public infrastructure, of the means themselves - all that information of each of these people generates every minute a quantity of millions of data; millions of data that are impossible to analyze, unless we have a large computer that is able to process them. Hence the concept of big data - big data, in English -. From the analysis of these data generated in each means of transport and, at the same time, in each transport infrastructure, we can draw conclusions, we can extract habits and we can extract predictive models. These predictive models are used to make decisions when building new infrastructures or resize existing services. As well defined by the expert professor on open data, David Well, data is the essential raw material of our era. But, Mr Ramos, the initiative they bring us today is totally non-existent, without ambition, without real effects. Frankly, beyond highlighting the concept - which you have done quite well - it does not bring anything at all, and more coming from a government party like yours. If you take a look, for example, at the open data portal, you will see that the vast majority of published data packages correspond to municipalities, parliaments and autonomous communities. One of those who has always led the making available of data to developers is precisely my town hall, the City of Malaga, where I had the honor to exercise as a councillor of new technologies for eight years. There we published a huge amount of data - some of them in real-time- precisely mobility, which made it possible to make public applications so that users could know, for example, the status of the parking lots or the arrival times of the buses. However, his speech contrasted with what the Government itself offered on the State's open data platform. Without going any further, if we look at DGT's statistics, the last one to be published is from 2020. I mean, you publish the 2020 TDG statistics, and when we're curious to tighten the link, you know what happens? This happens, error, you cannot access the data of the General Directorate of Traffic. [[shows a sheet that reads: Error 404]] [[Applauds]] Therefore, gentlemen of the PSOE, it is not enough to come here to tell us the kindness of big data or all that can be done when your own government constantly leaves them in evidence. That is why the Group of the European People's Party, as a responsible party and as a government party, has made a number of amendments to improve its initiative, which we have virtually completely recast, is a new wording. That wording really includes the mechanisms - not just the sun's toasts, but the concrete mechanisms - and we are more ambitious in terms of objectives, because not only must we guarantee data and privacy, of course, but above all that this data - as has already been said here - be reliable and really enable good decisions to be made. It is also a matter of highlighting the necessary publication of data in real time. I have already explained this: transport schedules, levels of occupancy of parking lots, means of transport, of different types of planes, trains, metro, buses, bicycles, shared cars. That is really the information that researchers and developers need, real-time information to be able to develop different applications. And we have also added a point five, which is to boost the competitiveness of Spanish companies; companies that, by the way, work internationally and are quite well-recognized. In this field, we have called for the use of public aid for R & D+i and innovative public procurement as a mechanism to enhance these new research work. Finally, we have added another point, because sometimes from public administrations rather than incentivising precisely this type of study are disincentives in tender documents. Why? Because, in some cases, they are even asked to facilitate algorithms, to facilitate different internal systems, thus giving logically sensitive and industrial information to competition. That is why point 6 is precisely so that this type of monitoring is taken into account when drafting the documents.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u117	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u118	I'm done, just telling them...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u119	Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u120	... that they accept our amendments and so, at last, it will really be an initiative that will serve something. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u121	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin with the substantive issue, Mr Mayoral - I do not see you here - I want to say that it is not the institutions, parliaments or the press that are immersed in a war voracious, it is this warlord who has forced us all to give a democratic and firm response to what is an aggression. Nothing more. I wanted to make those mentions. I cannot accept them from a democratic point of view. And I'm going to the subject. Mr. Ramos, friend Ramos, go!, have qualified as insubstantial the proposition not of law. Well, to be insubstantial, the truth is, it's causing a lot of reactions. I, for my part, have to tell you, first of all, that I was surprised by your intervention in the sense that it has affected a matter such as the profits or benefits that the data market can produce, which I do not believe was in principle the subject of this non-law proposal. But in addition, in order to achieve, with the metadata, with the big data, it is sought to exploit data obtained by all systems to improve predictive models and thereby improve the ability to provide service and the ability to generate new situations, new perspectives and new actions. For this reason, public institutions must be able to use them also in the field of mobility - land, air or sea - as a predictive model or of those already in operation, reference has been made to traffic models and others. That is why there is nothing to be warned about on this issue, with which we will agree. Nothing, except their obviousness, because to stimulate the activation of information that these metadata provide so that everyone can have them, both private and public institutions, that access to such data is public to enable its development or that this results in the improvement of the planning of transport and mobility infrastructure and services, are well-known purposes, of course, we agree, but it is that we should not need to urge the Government to do so, we believe that it alone could already act. In fact, it gives us the impression that this non-legislative proposal, as is the case with other proposals from parties participating in some government - and I am not just saying this for you - has also occurred when the PP has been in the government at the time -, it does nothing, it says nothing but obviousness. But there is some silence about which some warning has been given by those who have preceded me in the use of the word. In the first point of the operative part of this GNP, the following is indicated as the end of the sentence: ensuring compliance with the data protection rules. That is, from my particular point of view, the most important and most important element of this non-legislative proposal, to which I do not think it pays sufficient attention. Not so much to urge the Government to act in an obvious way with regard to public policies, but to do so by protecting citizens' rights. In my view, what is relevant from the point of view of the citizen's dimension should be that measures to protect their individual rights, which have been generally incorporated up to now in Law 3/2018, on the protection of personal data, should be proposed. It is important to note that the use of metadata carries a risk against which citizens should be protected, as the technical capabilities of operators to be able to make indiscriminate use of all such information are far superior to the regulation which imposes limits on their use and even on their possibilities for supervision. I'm going to tell you a story similar to something you've pointed out about COVID. During the first moments of the COVID the knowledge of its characteristics and of its way of expansion was an unknown, which is why different measures were taken, among others - you know it - that of confinement, but not only confinement, but also the limitation of movement for those who for some reason might have some activity. And that was a challenge because, if the containment measure made sense to prevent the transmission of the virus, it was important to know if it was actually being met. This is really to know whether the bug was held in a physical space or, on the contrary, mobility turned out to be greater than expected and, therefore, its ability to contagion also greater. Well, as there was no sure way of knowing what was going on, some person in charge requested the collaboration of some operator in case there was any formula that would allow us to know the mobility of mobile phones or, rather, of their users, trying - that is, or at least they have told - to safeguard the privacy of that information. The result appeared to be tremendously illustrative and seems to have led to very important conclusions. That's a smart use of metadata. But, I see, even on that occasion the real relevance would have been the protection of the individual rights of the users; and that is the facet that this non-law proposal does not contemplate adequately or sufficiently intensely. However, Mr Ramos, we will vote in favour, but I would like to see this facet taken into account in this government action: the important thing about the data is not so much its existence or its use, but the protection of individuals from its use. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u123	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u124	Good afternoon and thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ramos, I don't know what to tell you, because Mr. Cortés has already gotten you into the liver and Mr. Barandiaran has taken away the whole nice part of my speech. [[Laughter]] But, well, I appreciate it and I understand that it's mutual, so take it as if you told your parliamentary group, it's nothing personal. Frankly, after the debate on mobiles and Pegasus, you've come up here to explain what big data is threatening that it's something we don't understand, that the Spaniards don't understand or just don't understand, but what makes everyone know where we are and what we're on the net. You've had more aim than James Bond motivated. [[Applauds]] In any case, it is a GNP to urge the Government to do four things. It is no longer - as we have repeated so many times - that the Socialist Group brings motions for us all to help it ask for things from the government, that you are the government. I do not know if that facility that you should have to talk to the ministries is really not such or that the ministries do not talk to you, but they ask us to help them convince the Government to do, moreover, things that I should already be doing, and not only should I be doing them, but I am convinced that this is already being done. Besides, they've already told you. You call for data collection and analysis mechanisms in the field of mobility of Spaniards to be put in place to have mobility statistics, for these statistics to be publicly accessible, for the development of applications to interpret and visualize these data, for the use of these tools to design infrastructure and transport in the best way possible for Spaniards. Of course, the question is: is it so wrong that the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda is not doing this? Because if the ministry is not precisely in charge of designing on the basis of collected data and by analyzing the experience of how the Spaniards move, how is the infrastructure and transport in this country designing? Worse than I say you are doing it because in 2018 the ministry has already announced a project on the use of big data technology for the definition and quantification of interprovincial mobility at the national level. That is, this should already be a reality since that 2018 project. Moreover - and they have remembered -, with the pandemic in the first days of April 2020 it was said that this experience of 2018 was a very useful experience precisely to check how the Spaniards moved and, above all, to see the effectiveness of the mobility restrictions imposed with the coronavirus. But it is that in December 2020 the government was beginning to publish on the Open Data Mobility website - which you will know perfectly well - the mobility data of Spanish people on a daily basis at national level and obtained by means of big data technology. This was being published since December 2020 and, in addition, retroactively since October 2020. Sure, what's the problem? That when you enter the Open Data Mobility page you realize that it is only published until May 2021, that is, the data is completely out of date. Of course, the question is: Is the Socialist Group complaining in this Congress that the government does not update a website where it should be hanging data daily? In addition, he undertook to do so as an exercise of transparency with the Spanish. Go ahead, of course, that we will vote you yes. Also, look, so willingly, I think we're going to be almost the last to intervene, because it's been amended by everyone. To be an issue that you have presented as almost irrelevant, everyone has tabled amendments to it. We are going to vote in favour because we believe that this utility of big data should apply to mobility and, as you have said, to many other cases. We also like it when you say that the ministry would do so through agreements with telephone companies, and we like it even more when it is said that it will be done with absolute respect to the current data protection law. But, of course, as I said, when you came up here we just finished a debate on Pegasus and tapped mobile phones at the highest levels of government, so you will understand that it causes us some discomfort. In any case, as I have said, we are going to support it, we are going to vote yes, because we believe that, although a GNP of February 2021, you are asking for something that was already being done at that time, in February 2021 was already being done. It is true that then, in May 2021, the Government stopped publishing this data and what needs to be done is precisely to resume that initiative and update the data. You have our full support, of course, to remind the Government to do what it has to do, to do it right, and, above all, if it has already begun to do so, to continue to do so in the same way that we pay its salary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u125	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. We all know that technology itself is not bad, what is often bad is the use made of it, even when it is intended to apply to something like public transport. We are concerned whether it is to improve public transport with criteria of social profitability or whether it is to optimise public transport with criteria of economic savings, because they are very different reasons. In any case, we know that having up-to-date data statistics in any area is very useful. In this case of big data, the proposal seems to us correct, but we also outline aspects that have already been mentioned here, such as that such collection and processing guarantee anonymity and not only respect for data protection rules or that transparency is ensured throughout the process, but also that such data cannot define or limit public policies.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u127	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u128	Okay. Anyway, there it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u129	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u130	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ramos, I started my first speech against Mr Requena, of the Group of the European People's Party, who had a rather strange parliamentary technique, a somewhat strange parliamentary marketing because he put his finger in their eyes and asked them to support him, but you come up here and cut Mr Requena short. He has stirred up the People's Party, he has stirred up Núñez Feijóo, who is far more radical than Pablo Casado, and he tells them: and they can vote in favour of the non-law proposal. Actually, I've told you before, I'm getting old quickly. They taught me that if you want them to back you up, you explain the goodness of the project, you try not to insult them or get them into a lot of trouble, that they approve of it, and once you're voted on, you're ready with the opponent, but doing it in advance is kind of peculiar. [[Laughter and applause]] Having said that, I am already telling you that we are going to vote in favour of GNP, whether or not they incorporate amendments. I believe that neither mobility nor big data nor technology are going to be one before or after this GNP, but some of the issues that arise and that are really interesting, perhaps we should consider introducing them not so much into a GNP, which has the significance that it can have, but into this mobility bill that the ministry is working on. Perhaps it would be important here to fine-tune and do it well enough, because technology is very important and big data is a challenge in the field of mobility and in other areas that will bring us closer from the point of view of public management. I explain to you an experience not so much of big data, but simply of technology applied in the 21st century. A few days ago I was visiting, following the mobility law, a relatively important Costa Brava transport company, and they showed me that they could not understand how Renfe - state company - was not able to transmit to all the road transport companies - bus companies - their schedules on time, so that when a train is delayed ten minutes, twenty minutes or half an hour the companies could adapt the mobility and schedules of their vehicles to these delays. That, which seems to be not possible in the middle of the 21st century, is still happening. I would therefore ask, as a parliamentary group supporting the Government, that the Government be sensitive to this situation and that technology be used to make all movements much more efficient. That Renfe today does not transmit all its schedules in real time to the different road passenger carriers is not easily understandable.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u131	Mr. Bel, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u132	In any case, our vote will be in favour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u133	Thank you. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Socialist Group, which is also the party of the Government, calls on this House to be complicit in the use of computer tools for the geolocation of citizens, data belonging exclusively to their legitimate owners. As the Spanish Agenda says, we must defend the national and personal sovereignty of this data, something that in 2018 already used the then Ministry of Development through a pilot plan with big data technology; bidding, by the way, of 2017, when governing the People's Party, and that is that it mounts, mounts both PSOE and PP, PP and PSOE: one puts the ideas and the other executes them. Let me ask you, did it help you? Have infrastructure, routes or connections improved? Did they co-ordinate the territory with that pilot plan? No, you haven't done anything; well, yes, spending 300,000 euros of the Spaniards on that pilot plan, because if there's one thing you all know how to do here is to spend the money of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And not only do they not pay the Spaniards for their data, but they have the little shame of costing with their money that attack on their own privacy, right against which, as I said, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have attacked. Apparently, the use of big data for statistical and analytical purposes might seem useful, as long as the statistics don't make them Tezanos, of course. Even if it doesn't matter, when the statistics are not in the Executive's favor, they end up putting their dirty hands in any way, as has happened with the GDP and CPI data of the National Institute of Statistics which, after being questioned by the Government and with alleged accusations of interference by the Executive, have mysteriously ended with the resignation of the President of the institution. As I said, although apparently they might seem useful, the truth is that, first of all, as we have seen, despite the fact that a pilot plan has already been implemented no less than five years ago, they have done absolutely nothing. Secondly, if we look at the report of the 2018 pilot plan itself, we do not have personal consent. The use of big data technology means using mobile antenna records to track citizens, recording data every time the device interacts with the network - calls, messages or Internet connections - as long as there is an update of the mobile device or even the change of coverage area. This study even draws up an activity log, in which the associated information details where we sleep, when we leave home, when we go to work, when we return, if there are types of unusual activities in our routine and how far our home is. And even though they tell us about anonymous data, how to trust the party that has reached the government with lies. [[Applauds]] Anonymous? Who knows. Agreed? Not at all. A very clear violation of the right to personal and family privacy, as well as the secrecy of the communications contained in article 18 of our Constitution. Can you imagine that amount of data in the hands of a government that in just two and a half years of legislature has violated the most fundamental rights of the Spaniards, has declared two states of unconstitutional alarm and the closure of the House of Representatives of National Sovereignty? Can you imagine that amount of data in the hands of the socialists? By the way, one question: was Mr. President's espionage with big data or without big data? Because we still don't have that very clear. [[Applauds]] As for emptied Spain, you have abandoned them, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, turning over the government all these years, and now you want to make them believe that with a technology called big data you will miraculously solve your problems. Look, the study of the pilot plan specifically indicates that the proximity of the tracks would not make it possible to distinguish between terrestrial means in rural areas, as well as the fact that users are picked up by the same antennas, and this makes the lack of precision up to several kilometers in rural areas. Why don't you stop fooling the Spaniards? In conclusion, this initiative sets as an example of its effectiveness in the explanatory statement the very management that this Government would have done of the health crisis of COVID, in particular geolocation; an application that it did was to control citizens and not the virus, and failed dramatically. [[Applauds]] If the outcome of the initiative is going to be the same as what they have done with the management of the pandemic, it is better that they do nothing. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u135	Thank you. Mr Ramos Esteban, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u136	We're working on a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u137	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u138	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the regularization of migrant persons residing in the State. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u139	Thank you, President. It is important to say that we recorded this motion before the events of the Melilla massacre. Minister Escrivá says that migration is an opportunity for the sustainability of pensions here in Spain and proposes a reform of the Aliens Regulation for an almost purely economic purpose. That is, you recognize that you need migrants and yet you pay Morocco to stop them and kill them at the border, even within your Spanish territory, and you do so with our money. [[Applauds]] The fucking thing that hits, breaks heads and makes blood, and the rubber balls that kills, we pay for them all. Not in our name, never in our name! The relationship between this motion and the Government to regularize all foreign persons who are in an irregular administrative situation in the Spanish State has, unfortunately, been reinforced by the massacre in Melilla. Journalist Jairo Vargas Martín explains a comparative aggravation: first, 2,000 black people displaced by conflicts on the African continent have been beaten to death and 37 have died while seeking refuge in Spain; second, more than 120,000 white people displaced by the war in Ukraine have been able to arrive in Spain in less than four months; third, refugees on the African continent can only apply for asylum in Spain by jumping the fence of Ceuta or Melilla or by climbing to a patera; fourth, those of Ukraine have the directive of international protection, applause of politicians and civil society. Racism! Hypocrisy! The same gendarmes that left unattended the border of El Tarajal with those murders have crossed the fence of Melilla to hit and return in hot heat the migrants who were on Spanish soil; that is, to beat and kill black people migrants the Spanish State does not protect their territorial integrity. The logic is that you prefer them dead rather than inside your Spain and, how to kill is a crime, you need others to kill them. If images of migrants beaten and piled on the ground unconscious and dead were victims of the Putin war, NATO would be preparing arsenals and mobilizing troops, and Europe would talk about war crimes. You hypocrites! [[Applauds]] Many of the people who jumped and were killed in a massacre in the Melilla fence come from Sudan; they have been travelling for years; they have crossed the desert; they have passed through Libya; some have been returned to the sea when they went to Italy or have also died; they have endured extortion, violence and torture; and when they arrived in Morocco, the same dynamic. The comrades of CNAE Catalonia at the Barcelona concentration said: We know that the Moroccan government - not its peoples - is anti-black. His bloody pacts with Spain count on the blessing of the European Union, just as they fill Turkey with money. We're not giving up, because migrating is a right. Most of them are Sudanese and Chadian people - not sub-Saharans, as they say to refer to black shit -. There are 37 African American people killed by the Moroccan and Spanish authorities. 37 people killed! The Kingdom of Spain is deeply anti-black, they despise those deaths, they trade with their lives and their territories as chromes, with bloody pacts with Morocco endorsed by the European Union. We also blame African governments, with their extractive agreements, closing the possibility of travelling legally, without granting visas to their people, while fishing agreements are signed with the European Union, or with atrocities such as the Africa 2030 Plan and with perverse concepts such as circular migration, which is, by the way, contained in the reform of the regulations of the Aliens Act. One fact, according to the newspaper Público and the Foundation porCausa, ten multinationals pocket 65% of the money that Spain spends to curb migration and 7 out of 10 euros for migration management went to a group of ten companies with more than 100 cases of revolving doors, mainly former senior officials of the PP and the PSOE and, also, of aristocracy linked to franchising. Head Babcock, ACS and Indra. The #Regularization movement already says: We do not get into a statement all the rage and the impotence of seeing how migrant lives, black lives and racialized bodies at borders can suffer all the violence of the states responsible for the lack of secure ways to access Europe fortitude and call those criminal actions cooperation agreements. I'm sick of it! I am disgusted by the words and statements of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez. Gross! The massacre has highlighted the lack of political will on the part of the Spanish Government with regard to the ILP for regularization and a genuine rejection of its obligation to respect, protect, promote the rights of migrants, and the main cause is that we are not recognized as individuals. That's how raw his racism is. The Spanish and Moroccan law enforcement forces acted with gases and rubber bullets to then stack corpses and bodies of wounded abandoned from all possible medical assistance and watching many die, and beating with batons on the ground survivors who fell in the fence. How can a Government lack all humanity in congratulating those actions? How can you fund these criminal organizations in the supposed safe neighbouring country and say that a massacre is an example of international cooperation? They are not isolated facts, they are not - as the official press calls them - assaults and invasions, but announced tragedies and expulsions from borders. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no impartiality in this motion in the face of such a war against migrants. They would never have acted like that with blue-eyed rubies. No more institutional racism. Regularization already Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, we accept...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u140	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u141	... your amendment. But I tell you one thing: too late, too simple. The number of border victims has been shot during your term of office. That is the sad and harsh reality. Helena Maleno. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u142	Thank you. In defence of the amendment made by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u143	Thank you, President. Almost two years ago we discussed an initiative of the parliamentary groups that we are the parliamentary majority that supports the Government, but without the PSOE, which unfortunately still costs it a little bit, but I hope that today we will join this initiative. Today we are debating an obligation of our country towards the 600,000 migrants who are in an irregular administrative situation and who work in Spain; an obligation to guarantee their rights and, therefore, to regularize their situation. It is also an obligation of our country to international bodies. The UN's own rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Philip Alston, was horrified during his visit in 2020 by temporary settlements in Andalusia, without access to supplies, without conditions of hygiene and health, and was also horrified by the conditions of domestic workers. The truth is that we are already very tired of hearing excuses that are simply lies, some for racism and xenophobia, and others simply for not having the capacity and cowardice to deal with the situation. We are going to hear that the European pact on immigration and asylum does not allow it because it prevents general regulation, but that is simply a lie. When this pact was approved, the Spanish government led by Zapatero - let us remember - declared that the final wording admits regularizations for economic reasons and prohibit general regularizations, but not mass ones. Case by case, I said. Yes, on a case-by-case basis, and would therefore legitimize the process of regularization that was already taking place for 600,000 migrants on contracts made in 2005. And, eye, he also said that that would tie our hands for the future. In other words, at the time, the PSOE agreed with the regularization of migrants residing and working in Spain. By the way, lords of the right, Zapatero made a regularization of 600,000 people and Aznar also made it, of another 400,000 people. You can, of course you can. It has been done very well for those fleeing the Putin war in Ukraine, for those 135 000 people who have chosen Spain as their destination. They are doing so under regular migration conditions and therefore this means that it is not a question of numbers. This shows that when there is a will, reception devices are articulated. [[The lady]] Let us also talk about those killed this Friday in Melilla, about the criminalization that has been done against these people. We must fight against the mafias, of course, but also against inhumanity. There were also people from the Sudan of Mali there, and yours, ladies and gentlemen, are also wars and must also be protected. And no, the performance of Spain and Morocco this Friday on the border with Melilla has not been well organized, well perpetrated and well resolved. The fact that dozens of people have died is something that is not well resolved; that Morocco has opened ditches to bury bodies in graves preventing proper investigation is something that is not well resolved; and the opening of a criminal case to 29 migrants and their entry into prison is something that is not well resolved. Spain must therefore rectify and base its relations with Morocco on human rights and not on the massacre. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the southern border has again shown that it is necessary for Spain to lead the European proposal to establish legal and secure routes, and we have said that countless times here in the gallery. Legal and safe paths that guarantee the physical and moral integrity of migrants and refugees because it is a European responsibility. Because migration is a natural process and because last year alone last year, more than 4400 people died trying to reach Spain by sea. Today we are going to hear a lot of hatred, a lot of racism and a lot of xenophobia and that hatred comes not only from the extreme right of VOX, but also from the extreme right of the People's Party, which in this case are the same. On the 11th day, the settlements of temporary and temporary residents of the San Jorge de Lepe polygon burned again. Now, after they have rebuilt it, the mayor of Palos, who is also a national deputy of the People's Party, has come up with nothing other than to invade that area, which is a private property that has his owner's permission, and to carry a excavator to destroy that settlement and take them back to the street. Against this, what the Government of Spain, in particular the Ministry of Social Rights, has done has been to close a protocol of action between the Government, the Andalusian Board and the municipalities of Lepe and Moguer endowed - term, president - with 5 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u144	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u145	I'm on my way. Here in fact we can see the difference between those who spread hatred and racism, and those who respect human rights and love our country as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u147	Thank you, President. The images of the 37 people killed in Melilla are horrifying. In fact, we didn't want to be in the minute of silence today. She seemed hypocritical to us. And I say hypocritical because these dead have responsibility: the Moroccan government - which is burying the people killed so that they can't do autopsies - and the Spanish government, which in these Courts refers to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the United We can. Of the PSOE we already know, it is the party of the law of aliens, the party of the internment centers of foreigners and the party that has raised the political architecture of death, but of the United We may not expect it. We prefer to say things with a song, an old Catalan song, which says: It wasn't that company, it wasn't that. Murders are the responsibility of the European architecture of death, annihilating lives and destroying vital projects. And in addition, the president of the government talks about mafias. This is an extreme right-wing speech, ladies and gentlemen; holding people killed to account by talking about mafias is the same thing the extreme right says. [[applause]] In fact, they said it in the press room this morning. And it is that the statements of the President of the Spanish Government congratulating the operation of the Moroccan police are scandalous, because they excuse the deaths and also prove that the violence enters into the pact between the Spanish Government and the Moroccan Government. And proof are the images of Moroccan policemen jumping the fence in Spanish territory to pacify, catch young people and practice what is called hot deportations, which have also been condemned many times by European human rights organisations. For all this the minute of silence has seemed hypocritical to us, and I am trying to be polite, because it is the face washing of the 'well-solved' that Sánchez spit on Saturday. [[applause]] The images are shocking, the statements and the silences overwhelming, but the scariest thing is that you seem to have no difference with the extreme right when talking about migrations and the southern border. [[Applauds]] And this is terrifying, ladies and gentlemen. It ended with the meaning of the motion. Obviously, we're going to vote in favour. Regularization and the opening of borders, said comrade Dantas, are minimum principles in the face of so much barbarism. When death is practiced as a repeated policy on the southern border, regularizing all persons in an irregular situation in the Spanish State is minimal. There is an ILP in progress; all citizens, sign, search points, search for them in the networks: regularization already. Let us contribute to the extent that we can make the future in dignity, for all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u149	Thank you very much, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Four days have passed since the terrible images we saw on the border of Melilla and I have the perception, I have the feeling, that we are all looking elsewhere. It has been very significant that in the minute of silence with which this plenary began, we were unable to mention at least 37 victims who died in the Melilla fence last Friday. What's going on? We're ashamed, aren't we? That's the thing, we're embarrassed. [[Applauds]] But why can't you talk? Why can't we denounce the greatest tragedy that has occurred on the Spanish border in recent decades? When the tragedy of El Tarajal all happened and we were all very demanding. I recall that the United Left and the Socialist Party requested not only the appearance of Mr Fernández Díaz but also a committee of inquiry. Now what? Now, in the face of more serious facts, what happens? [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Are we going to look somewhere else? That's the problem. What is the difference between you and the People's Party acting around migration? I don't see that much. Well, at least Mr Fernández Díaz has been deigned to appear for a few days on this House's Committee on the Interior. Where's Mr. Grande-Marlaska? I have an inquiry tomorrow, a question to this gentleman, but I hope he will appear as soon as possible before this Congress to clarify what happened on Friday. We have seen terrible images of people dying without any help or help; Moroccan police officers assaulting, even with stones, migrant people, and some of them in Spanish territory. Who gave the order to access Melilla? Who allowed it? Why were summary expulsions of migrants allowed? What anti-disturbation material was used? Where are the images, both those of the fence perimeter and those of the helicopter? Where are they? Don't look away. We have learned that someone has given an ad hoc order so that those 133 people, in accordance with a health criterion, are isolated in the CETI of Melilla, from where they do not let them leave. I would also like to know who gave that order on an ad hoc basis. They know that the vast majority of people who have accessed Spanish territory come from Sudan and are therefore potential asylum-seekers. That is, 90% of Sudanese and Sudanese who have applied for asylum in Spain have been granted asylum, taking into account the political situation in that country. But what is the situation? If they are asylum seekers, what is the problem? The problem, first, is that they cannot apply for asylum at source, and second, that at those border posts opened by the People's Party following the massacre of El Tarajal people of sub-Saharan origin have no access. And why don't they have access? Because Spain has asked Morocco to do so. Then we are faced with a case of externalisation of borders. What's the matter with that case? That people who want to enter Spain to apply for asylum have two ways: first, to go to networks or mafias, paying money and arriving in a boat or hidden in vehicles, or the second - those who have no money to pay to any network -, jumping the fence, risking dying, as we saw last Friday. That's why it's doubly cruel when the president of the government says that behind last Friday's jump are the mafias. It's cruel, it's a lie, and it also repeats messages from the extreme right. I'm sure some of you and some of you are ashamed; I would be. I'm finishing up. President Sánchez said, when he was deigning to welcome the 630 people of the ship Aquarius, that it was worth being in politics only to save those people, and I agree. He said that they could have looked elsewhere, as it happens on so many occasions; but it is not at this time that we are looking elsewhere, it is that we have a president who has congratulated Morocco on that feat. And instead of rectifying he insisted on the same thing. It doesn't make any sense. I ended up asking for legal and secure avenues for all those people who want to migrate or who want to apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u150	Mr. Iñarritu, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u151	I'm done, Madam President. But we also need transparency and research for last Friday's massacre. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u152	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u153	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, as some previous speakers have done, we wish to express our deepest rejection of what happened on the Moroccan side of the Melilla border. We believe that not a legitimate use of force was made but a disproportionate use of violence, and that the most basic human rights were violated. We believe that there can be no justifiable or exculpatory word for this behavior. And, on the occasion of our initiative resulting from the twinning of the inquiry and the motion, I would like to point out that it concludes by calling for the regularization of all foreign persons who are in the Spanish State in an irregular administrative situation. It is a request that, as expressed in the interpellation, has a ultimate ideological basis on the premise that migration is a right of individuals and on the correlative obligation of receiving States to recognize the status of full citizenship of migrant persons. Our parliamentary group does not share those premises with regard to migratory movements, except as provided in international treaties with regard to asylum-seekers or asylum-seekers; it does not share the view that societies receiving migrants in an irregular administrative situation should in any case be recognized as full citizenship through processes of mass regularization, except for humanitarian reasons to be considered on a case-by-case basis. And not only because the European framework prevents it, but also because we believe that migratory phenomena must be addressed both from the principle of responsibility and from the humanitarian principle. As I said, from the principle of responsibility for our international commitments, not only within the framework of the Union, but also within the framework of the treaties on asylum or refuge; also with responsibility for our societies and for migrants through a model of regular immigration, ordered - we have said many times -, safe, lasting but adaptable to changing circumstances, that improves the living conditions of migrants - in particular in working conditions eliminating their precariousness -, that favors their social integration, that addresses the different types of immigration, that is socially sustainable and sensitive, as I said, to the social and economic needs of receiving societies. [[Rumors]] In this sense - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we will be attentive, as it could not otherwise be, to the evolution of the current draft reform of the regulations of the Aliens Act, which dates back more than a decade. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u155	He told them that we will be attentive to the evolution of the current draft amendment of the regulations of the Aliens Act, which dates back more than ten years and in which so many things have changed, among them, the same migratory phenomena with international significance and never seen until now, except in specific moments of history, because of their structural, massive and incremental character. It is a reality that we have to address from the Union's framework; from our social and economic needs; from humanitarian principles, taking particular account of the situations of the most vulnerable; from orderly, safe and sensitive models of the different types of migrants; from improving the living conditions of migrants, through the elimination, as I said, of their precarious situations, in particular in their working conditions. In short, ladies and gentlemen, co-honesting the social and economic needs of our societies with the dignity of migrants and their vital projects, including their families. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't just keep talking in the hallways and making a bunch of curls. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u157	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The images we have all seen these days on television can only move us to revulsion and indignation. Indignantness because, when people who aspire to a better life are mistreated, as has been the case, to the point of perishing at the gates of Europe, this can only lead to the disgust and condemnation of these situations. What happens is that many times we forget - perhaps because we don't see them - that these dramas happen permanently on our shores. How many migrants have sunk into the Atlantic Ocean or the Mediterranean Sea trying to reach our shores? We don't see them, they're invisible to us. For this reason, the tragedy of migrants is far greater than the sad images reflect. We find it absolutely inconceivable that the President of the Government can say words such as those he used when assessing this drama. We find it incredible for several reasons, but the main one of them is that Spain does not need to outsource migration management; what Spain needs is migration management, it needs a migration management policy, because it does not have it. Ladies and gentlemen, we now remember this, when we have been talking about it for years and years, in this rostrum, in this legislature and in the last legislatures, and nothing has been done by this government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, Mr de Podemos and Mr de Esquerra, I understand your motion, but it is that you have the ability to make this government really legislate and legislate. [[Denials by Mrs Carvalho Dantas]] Yes, Mrs Carvalho, yes, because, in other circumstances, you have forced this government to legislate for the things that interest you. [[Mrs Carvalho Dantas, pointing to the seats of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Common: They, they]] Do you know what the problem is? That you do populism with migrants. [[Mr. Carvalho Dantas: Never, ever!-Applause.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u158	Quiet, please. Mrs. Carvalho, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u159	That's the worst of all, they do populism with migrants. [[Mr. Carvalho Dantas: Never, ever!-Rumors]] Because, for the tables, you do get them to sit down and talk to you, Mrs. Carvalho. For imaginary republics, you do get this government to feel, but for migration policies not; that does not interest you. [[Applauds]] Mrs Carvalho, Mr de Esquerra, Mr de Podemos, you are a populist. And you know the worst of it all? That, like any populist, you play with the weakest and induce them to think that you with these proposals can do so, when this is not worth anything. It's not worth anything, Mrs. Carvalho, and you know it. What they had to do was press a Government that relied on you to continue to govern so that migration policies could be changed. That is what is needed in this country, policies of truth and non-occurrences such as that which these associations have proposed to you, which they claim are massive regularization processes which have not solved anything in the past and which are not going to solve anything in the present or in the future of migratory movements. You are not thinking and legislating in favour of the most disadvantaged, who are migrants, but only to target so many and, in the end, you will not get anything. I find it very distressing that today we are debating this again after a tragedy such as the one we have seen and that they have not raised anything else in their motion - or Mr de Podemos in his amendment - rather than a process of mass regularisation. Do you really think that's what migrants need? A process of regularization? That will solve the problem of those who are already. And the ones who are going to keep coming? What about them? How are they going to live? Same? You complain and there have been groups here that criminalize migrants; we have heard it on other occasions, of course. Migrants cannot be criminalized, but it cannot be said that the mafias are not to blame for what is happening. It is the fault of the mafias and political parties, such as the Socialist Party and before the People's Party, which did nothing to improve the lives of migrants, who did nothing to ensure that the transit that must pass does not have the problems or dangers that migrants are suffering at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, if you really want to talk about migration, if you really want to solve the problem of migrants, abandon political activism, because you are not activists, you are politicians and you are here to do politics. But, exactly as they do in Catalonia, they only do activism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u160	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u161	It's over, President. They only do activism. Force this Government to change migration policies if they really want to solve this problem. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u162	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u163	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. How many more have to die? We must establish a just policy at the borders, make legal immigration more flexible, strengthen integration policy, protect people fleeing wars and those protected by international law. They are not my words, they are from Pedro Sánchez; that is, from Pedro Sánchez of 2018, before being president of the government. They are very different from those we hear these days of congratulations to the Moroccan Gendarmerie for a well-solved work. These are words that will undoubtedly remain for the history of infamy, because that well-solved work consisted in the murder of at least thirty-seven people. A brutal murder, with people beaten, stoned, let sagonize for hours, piled up and finally buried without identification and without autopsy to hide the crime. It is unworthy, infamous and requires correction now. That's what the BNG is asking because the Melilla massacre is a crime. [[showing a sheet reading: or Melilla's massacre is a crime]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u164	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor. [[Some Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Another, another, another!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u165	Today is International LGTB Pride Day and for me the Qatar Football World Cup already has a winning team, the Watford and his hobby, who have canceled their match with Qatar's selection because that country does not respect the rights of women and the LGBT collective. This morning we had breakfast with a shameful headline. A minister of a progressive government said: 'We must be strong in immigration, behind there are mafias'. Behind you, Minister, there are people fleeing wars, hunger, despair and dictatorships. There are dramas, there are women, there are children, there are people who only want an opportunity to live with dignity, the same opportunity that Spanish emigrants claimed in the 20th century when they went to America, Germany, Switzerland, France and so many countries. Therefore, giving people a chance to be people is called regularization. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u166	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u167	Good afternoon. People found in bad condition in a truck or the attempt to jump from the Melilla fence are images of the last few days, but they don't matter the images, they matter the facts, and unfortunately they are no exceptions; that they don't come out in the media or social media doesn't mean they don't exist. What will happen to these people? Under the existing extradition treaties, they will be returned to their countries of origin or transit and, if their return is not possible, they will be left without papers and will join all those who are also without papers under different circumstances, for example, because they have incurred an irregularity that occurred when their tourist visa expires. What solution is given to these people? Malvivid? Indeed, there is a need for a reform of the Aliens Regulation that provides long-term solutions and regulates safe and feasible entry routes with work authorization, especially with work authorization. Yes, this is necessary, but it is also a solution for the people who are already here. They cannot be left in darkness or in darkness and in permanent distress. During the pandemic, solutions were devised for specific groups, such as farmers and doctors, but not for dentists or psychologists, for example. It was done because we needed it, but what about the rest of the people? They have also suffered a pandemic and also helped. It seems that the ministry is preparing a royal decree reforming the regulations. We urge you to listen to all the sectors involved; to respond not only to the needs of the market, but also to social entities; to facilitate ways of providing solutions to the people who are already here. If you only set secure entry routes you will face only part of the problem. We add that it would also be good for the Government to equip the foreign offices with the necessary human and economic resources, as they are under-funded. If people have the means to enter, reside and work safely, they will not try to enter risking their own motu lives or through mafias. If they do, if they use these routes, it's because they have no other choice. Do not continue, ladies and gentlemen, applying a double measuring rod according to the origin of the person. Refugees from Ukraine are a sign that when they are interested they find solutions. Do so also for all those who have been forced for various reasons to leave their countries of origin. We understand the intention of the motion put forward by the Republican Group, but we believe that certain conditions - even minimum requirements - should be put in place to help ensure effective and efficient regulation. In their explanatory statement we are given ideas - which we share - of what should be the appropriate changes. Because we believe that this should be done, we believe it is important that this issue has been put into the debate and that the ministerial offices have finally left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u169	Thank you, Madam President. After all we have had to hear here this afternoon, the first thing I want to say, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, is that the southern border of Spain defends itself, is that Ceuta and Melilla always Spanish. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Last week, Mr. Rufián said that if we were against immigration, who would bring us the packages of things we asked for on the Internet, who would take care of our elders, who would clean the houses or who would take care of the gardens. Because Mr. Rufián and the rest of the progress gentlemen want to open the borders for this. They want labor for the worst paid jobs. The truth is, what they want is massive immigration because they want slaves. Mr. Rufián says this not only because he is a classist, but because he has masters, because a handful of billionaires are badly affected by the demographic curve of the West and need to call hundreds of thousands of immigrants to square their results accounts and forecasts. [[Applauds]] In the VOX Parliamentary Group we have three messages for the progressive gentlemen. First of all, cleaning houses is worthy, fixing gardens is worthy, caring for our elders is very dignified and what is deeply outraged is that, instead of fighting to improve the conditions of the worst paid jobs, they bring millions and millions of immigrants to lower wages and further precarious jobs. [[Applause.-Some ladies and gentlemen of the Republican and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common show signs reading: Massacre a Melilla]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u170	Wait a minute, Mrs. De Meer. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remove the posters from your seats. They know that demonstrations and freedom of expression in the Chamber are done with the voice, so I ask you, please, to remove the posters. [[Rumors and Protests]] I'll ask you again before I start calling you to order, please. [[These ladies and gentlemen withdraw the posters]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u171	Thank you, Madam President. As I said to them, it is unworthy to use millions and millions of immigrants to precariously employ the Spanish, but it is miserable to relegate the more modest Spaniards not only to have increasingly precarious jobs, but to condemn them to live among the crime, insecurity and barbarism that causes uncontrolled immigration in the humblest neighborhoods of our country. Let them not deceive - let them not deceive - those who claim to fight for the eradication of poverty or those who claim to fight for social justice, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to fight poverty by bringing seven million Africans with no resources to roam our streets. [[Applauds]] It's impossible, it's a lie and it's very serious. But it is also impossible to fight for social justice by bringing millions of people from poor countries to lower wages and precarious jobs. It's impossible, it's a lie and it's very serious. Let them not deceive you, for if today the government regularizes half a million immigrants, it sends a very dangerous message that will cause an effect called overwhelming and irresponsible; and, the more effect called, more deaths on the borders. This is the case, but not in countries where there is no so-called effect, where the Army controls borders, intercepts vessels and takes them to ports in other States, such as Australia. Do you know how many are dead in the Pacific? Zero. And do you know how many the economic benefits of the mafias and their accomplices are? None. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, protecting borders works. So don't stop fooling yourself, because open border policies are the culprits of every drama, every death, every truncated life. They are guilty of stealing the labor of their countries, of the existence of human trafficking mafias, of every prostituted woman and exploited immigrant decade. Let them not deceive you, but above all that they do not mislead you, because the main victims of all this are the Spaniards, the grandmothers who walk with fear for Usera and for Parla, the girls raped in a herd, the victims of forced marriages, those who have arms amputated by the street feuds, Francisco and his three-year-old grandson murdered by jihadist terrorism in the Rambla de Barcelona and the homeless families, with no future and no work who see how, even having shared their whole life, they have condemned them to uproot, poverty, loneliness, fear and failure. Therefore, in the VOX Parliamentary Group we have very clearly that the best way to protect the Spaniards is to protect the doors of their home. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u172	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. [[The lady]] Mrs Carvalho, on the basis of what article do you ask me to say?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u173	On the basis of Article 72, for infringing on parliamentary decorum. [[Applauds]] Madam President, I request that today's 'terrorist' and 'jihadist' expressions directed at migrants be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u174	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Romero Hernández has the floor. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: They use posters, as in the Republic.-Laughter and rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u175	Madam President, I want my first words to be to regret what happened at the border of Melilla. [[Applauds]] I wish to regret the death of so many people and to reject the words of the President of the Government, saying that the outcome of what has happened is well resolved. Mr Sánchez, not so, so the problem is not solved, and much less well solved. You have to retract what you said. I understand that at a specific moment we can all be wrong about what we say and how we say it; therefore, retracting is good. Apologize and show your grief and that of all Spaniards to the families of the deceased. The facts and circumstances of what has happened need to be clarified. It is necessary to know whether it is true that the Minister of the Interior, Mr Marlaska, had information about what might happen. Why have they been buried in mass graves, unidentified, no autopsy? We, the People's Party, are asking for it, and so is the United Nations. He must urgently appear in this House and give explanations. What has happened is very serious, very serious. Where have you parked human rights? Socialists, Communists, you, who like to give lessons of everything, I say to the People's Party lessons on human rights, not one, not one. [[Applauds]] Mr. Writer is not here in the House, but I wanted to address him. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government wants to reform the Aliens Regulation. Yes, it is true, it wants to make a reform of the regulation; we have heard from the press. But it has been to announce the reform of the regulation and ipso facto to resign two secretaries of state related to the field of immigration. Mr Escrivá must explain this and we have therefore requested his appearance. It has been announced that it is working on the alien regulation to reform it and ipso facto there has been a massive assault on the border of Melilla with the result that unfortunately we already know. What a disaster, Mr. Escriva! What a mess! Those who trade with the most unprotected human beings are very happy with the Government of Spain; they had never won so much. According to police reports, there are now more mob groups than ever before. Eye!, the mobs are there and their terminals are here, let's not forget. Mrs 'Carvalho' 1 told us last week that there is a need for an extraordinary massive regularisation in the Spanish state - this week too she told us - and she was talking about 500,000 people. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: Carvalho!]] Mrs Carvalho, we cannot - I do not know if we understand it - make this massive regularisation because it is not allowed by the European Migration and Asylum Pact, which is binding, as you know. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas makes negative gestures]] This regulation prevents Member States from making massive regularisations, but, of course, this brings you even. Normally, you, when it comes to law enforcement, don't. However, I am very afraid that, even if the minister says that this reform does not involve mass regularization, we will have to look at the small letter and see the facts, because we are used to the government saying one thing and doing the opposite, jumping the law to the toaster. With the massive regularization that you propose, Mrs Carvalho, and so much you have poached, what causes is an effect called. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas makes negative gestures]] It cannot be that the usual thing in Spain is illegal entry or irregular entry of immigrants.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u176	Mr. Romero, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u177	I'm done, Madam President. We have positive recruitment experience from Huelva through Morocco, Ecuador and Honduras. More than 12,000 people have come to work and returned to their homes. That's why we have to bet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u178	Mr. Romero, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u179	I'm done, Madam President. And we have to bet on a state pact for immigration so that we have the labour we need in our economy and they have the satisfaction of migrating and having a decent salary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u180	Thank you very much, Mr Romero. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramírez Carner has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u181	Thank you very much, President. 1 Note from the Journal of Sessions. Mr Romero Hernández pronounces and Mrs Carvalho Dantas pronounces First of all, if I may have a preview, today, 28 June, is the Day of Pride. [[ka symbol uvular friction sound 'valu]] [[ka symbol uvular friction sound 'va lateral symbol palatal u]] Happy Pride Day to all and everyone! [[Applauds]] Those of freedom will defeat the drivers of hatred, no doubt. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] I'm on it. I think the Speaker of the People's Party is also mayor of some municipality with quite a few settlements, right? Of course, to the best of honor! [[Rumors.- Mr. Suárez Lamata utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u182	Mr. Suárez, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u183	Lessons here on human rights, none. I didn't go with an excavator to kick out a person without legal authorization. [[Applauds]] Mrs Dantas, Member of the Republican Group, is proposing to us this week a motion with a single point: to regularize here some 500,000 people when they know that it cannot be done by a European agreement of 2008. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas makes negative gestures]] So if the only thing that he proposes to us - I think it is my turn now - is something that cannot be done, what is the point of this intervention? [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: It's not true]] You know I'm bad at telling you, but I don't see you away from reality or you're using the victims of what happened. Not like that, not with those insults. [[Mrs Carvalho Dantas utters words that are not perceived]] How can you tell the Socialist Group, the Government of Spain, that we prefer them dead than inside? Dead inside? [[Applauds]] [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: Yes]] You're using the feeling of many people coming here to look for a better life. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: Your president! The government!]] Not like that, not with these insults. These speeches give wings to the ultras, but that leaves it for later. The Government of Spain has a serious and responsible migration policy, because it is what is done with these complicated issues that affect the well-being, illusions and lives of so many people. So, less theater, please. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: It's not theater!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u184	Mrs. Carvalho, silence, please! [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: It's not theater, it's murder]] You called her to order, Mrs. Carvalho, for the first time. Silence! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u185	Thank you, President. We seek safe, regular and orderly ways of migration that respect human rights. We work with the countries of origin and the European Union to fight the mafia. [[Rumors]] If there are, there are unscrupulous people who trade with people and I don't know why they deny it. We also improve state legislation, not with its proposals, which are nothing, but with which we do have them. Now 9300 young people sentenced to social exclusion have roles in the reform that we made of the regulations of the Aliens Act last year, which came into force in November, and, as you know, a second reform is being prepared to make it easier for immigrants trained in sectors where there is low employment, to allow foreign students to work or to expand recruitment of origin. I insist, if there is any proposal, welcome will be. Ultra VOX gentlemen - what's so funny, you're having a good time this afternoon - do you hear? [[laughs]] [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: We don't listen]] Because I think we run the risk of normalizing the things they say. [[Mrs. Rueda Perelló utters words that are not perceived.- Mr. Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: What is it? Comedy Club?]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros asks me if this is The Comedy Club. I don't know. You count it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u186	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u187	Ask Espinosa de los Monteros if it's the Comedy Club. I don't know, you tell me. How much grace does it make people put their own children's lives at risk because they have nowhere to live in their own country? [[Applauds]] How funny is that? How many clips of this? [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Grace none, none]] You have children and you have family and, like the rest, you will love them. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: The question! To the point!]] Can't they put themselves in their place? Do you really have to mix people who are looking for a worthy future, who have feelings and who have hopes, with terrorists? [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: You are disgraceful!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u188	Senor Espinosa de los Monteros, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u189	And on top of that, it's funny. [[Senor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Unhappiness!]] You to talk about people who seek a better life - or a life - use words like invasion, aggression and terrorism and forget others like dictatorships - they like - wars, famines and poverty. That's what these people are running from! That's what they're running from! When we deal with some issues, we should also be a little more serious, please. So less theatricality and more humanity. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. Mrs Carvalho, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u191	Yes, Madam President, we accept the amendment to add the United Nations Podemos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u192	Thank you very much. The vote will take place on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We voted, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on hydrogen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 26 telematics votes, 333; in favour, 87 plus 7 telematics votes, 94; against, 149 plus 15 telematics votes, 164; abstentions, 71 plus 4 telematics votes, 75.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u194	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) in common (CGE), which regulates the process of voluntary integration of certain private educational centres in the public network of educational centres. [[File number 122/00218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u195	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, which regulates the process of voluntary integration of certain private educational establishments into the public network of educational establishments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 plus 26 telematics votes, 333; in favour, 41 plus 6 telematics votes, 47; against, 260 plus 20 telematics votes, 280; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-28-CD220628.u196	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was eight and forty-five minutes of the night.
