ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. With regard to the agenda item on full debate on legislative initiatives, which would have been discussed below, I should like to inform you that the only amendment to the draft general audiovisual communication law has been withdrawn. Consequently, this item has fallen off the agenda. However, it will be put to the vote at the end of the sitting, together with the other matters, the requests for acknowledgment to the plenary submitted to this initiative by the Plural Parliamentary Group, and also by the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Bel]] [[Mrs. Nogueras]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u2	We therefore begin with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill on consumer and user protection in the face of situations of social and economic vulnerability, coming from Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 of 19 January. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u3	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, a law with appropriate amendments that my party is going to pass makes us from the Senate. However, the amendments tabled by us, which I believe have not been properly understood, have not been adopted, and it has therefore advanced that we will re-submit them in another law currently under way in this Congress which also affects consumer rights. This law provides for the strengthening of vulnerable consumers and rightly states that they are not only the economically weak. And this reminds me of a 1960 film by Tony Leblanc, which most of you won't remember, and which used the name 'economically weak'. The law now broadens the collective with a large group called vulnerable consumers, including young people, older people, people with disabilities, etc. Indeed, the law includes generic referrals for the protection of these consumers and many aspects that should be the subject of further regulatory development. Fortunately, an amendment by my group on the labelling of products has been adopted; a very specific amendment, this time, which states that ambiguities on the content of labels and, in particular, on food allergens must be clearly and rigorously labelled in the exact information of the content. We will no longer have to read that of: it can contain traces of dried fruits, it can contain dairy and similar remains. A Product contains an ingredient or does not contain it, it is no longer worth the fact that it can contain it. The manufacturer needs to know what it includes in its products and what it buys from its suppliers. For example, there are many dried fruits and it is not the same as hazelnuts, peanuts, almonds, etc., as they say at the fairs. The same goes for dairy and other foods, and we all know the danger of allergies. In this case, the right to physical integrity and the right to health protection are also affected. Today this can be demanded of companies and is in keeping with the times, we are no longer in the Middle Ages and are already warned in the letters of some restaurants. With regard to the amendments that have not been adopted - which we will repeat - Article 51 of the Constitution requires effective procedures to protect consumer safety. That is why we have tabled other amendments - which we will repeat here, as I said - whose objective I will tell you. And I'm going to ask some questions to your ladies and gentlemen: who hasn't received calls from an unknown person at an untimely hour to sell him some service and when they told him not to call him again and to delete him from his databases, they ignored his request. Or they ask him how he got his number, because you're on the Robinson list, and they tell you they don't have your number because it's a random call. Or who hasn't received a call where a recorded voice comes out that tells him to stay on hold. Or who hasn't received a call in which, once you answer, there's no one on the other side of the line. I mean, they bother you, they invade your privacy, they interfere in your life and they don't answer anyone or they tell you to wait listening to a little music and a repetitive voice. And there's more and more of those multiple calls: they call five, six or I don't know how many at a time and, when they talk, they only answer the first one who disconnects the phone, and the others, until the next one. Well, it is a matter of banning these practices. We are not satisfied as consumers that we have to denounce, protest and request that they do not repeat themselves. It is shown that they do not work and, of course, these vulnerable groups must be defended, that they have no capacity or initiative or even do not have time to take legal action. For that reason, we did not admit a transactional offered to us in the Senate, which finally referred to enhancing outreach campaigns, conducting inspection campaigns in the framework of sectoral conferences, etc. All this is very good, but a rule already exists and it has been shown that it is not effective, I mean the effectiveness required by the Spanish Constitution. The truth is that how many good things the Constitution has already achieved since 1978, such as this consumer defense. In short, it is not enough to establish rights if then, to make them stand up for, you have to fight to get them as if they had not existed before. I hope that we can all arrive at an effective wording that does not interfere with those cases that can be justified, in accordance with the general interest and respectful of the freedom and autonomy of citizens. Moreover, the law is welcome and we hope to improve it with other laws that also directly or indirectly affect consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u5	Good morning. Thank you, President. I would like to begin by expressing the full support of Citizens and my parliamentary group to the Government, as has already been expressed to them this morning by Inés Arrimadas. These are critical moments. We also want to transfer our support to Ukraine and its citizens. We condemn, together with the Government, Russia's aggression against Ukraine, and the whole Government must be clear about this, the whole Government; it is not time for divisions. The Government of Spain must be united in this matter and opposition with it. [[Applauds]] Having said that, with regard to the Senate amendments, there are some that improve the text, those that affect accessibility, and we will support them. We shall vote in favour. We recognize that this law contains important advances in the protection of vulnerable consumers. All the workers of the ministry - the technicians and the minister - and the citizens have done a good job in this area and are in agreement to ensure the proper functioning of the market and that both consumers and self-employed entrepreneurs can access it with much less barriers than the world, especially digital, poses. Free competition, clarity of information and making the market accessible are fundamental elements that we advocate. We have worked and tabled many amendments that affect these three aspects and we want to help those who want to offer goods and services and those who want to buy them. But this law hides a trap from the beginning and that is why we have not supported it, a trap that does not belong to the ministry that presents it, and that is that it blesses the ocupation of housing, since it modifies the Royal Decree 11/2020, and reduces the cases in which the eviction of a housing can occur. A vulnerable consumer law generates a vulnerable owner. Now it is only possible to evict the Okupas if they have mediated violence or intimidation or if the housing is rented. For example, eviction is not possible in the case of a second dwelling. I mean, there's only a right to property in case they hit you or intimidated you. What do you want with this? What message is sent with this standard? They need to make a campaign from the government saying: be you okupa, but in good shape. It is a misconception that they have done with a law that could have had a very broad parliamentary consensus. This law is loaded with good modifications, but we're getting this. This government practice of mixing things that have little to do with it is harmful, even for the support of the rules they bring. According to data from the Ministry of the Interior, the number of second homes and houses under construction has increased alarmingly. The government itself says so. And what does the government do with these data? It gives more security to the okupa. You have sold the idea that all occupied dwellings are from wicked bankers and vulture funds, but the truth is that many occupied dwellings are from second homes of middle-class families who found a way to save money by buying a house that could also serve them to go on vacation; by the way, those who with this government always pay, those people who save and that one of the forms of investment they find is a second home. The government of Pedro Sánchez seems like a training camp for the middle classes or, which is the same, for the classes held by the state, the superpowers. I am referring to those who are not much less rich but who are not entitled, for example, to a childcare check, to free childcare; to those who pay an important portion of the IRPF but who do not have access to a VPO because they earn too much -'too much' between wonderful quotes -; to those who do not have access to a food voucher but who pass them canutas with the shopping basket when it comes to the end of the month; to those - those super payers - who enter the minimum but who do not charge the minimum income. Now, many of those super payers who pay social housing with their taxes, when they go on vacation to their second residence, may find that an okupa has been installed in it and that they do not have a legal defense for their eviction and, as it has not mediated neither violence nor intimidation, little less that they have to take the purchase. The message is that in order to get your house back, you'd better have been hit. Government of Spain, they express to super payers and bleed them to taxes and now make it easier for them to occupy their second residences. The super payers who work are expressed by rulers who have never worked; they pay contributions to be managed by those who have never contributed outside the political activity, and now, when they go on vacation, they may open the door of their second residence and meet Mrs. Colau sitting in the living room welcoming them. This is not a middle-class country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. [[Start your intervention in Galician]] We will focus, by time limitation, on the amendment introducing this plan of measures against financial exclusion, a mere statement - in our view - of intentions which, although necessary, are clearly insufficient. It has only been because of social mobilizations, such as those held in Galicia on a constant basis for years against closures and restrictions, so now they are finally decided timidly to intervene. Indeed, ensuring access at least to a cashier when closing offices and making the technical means for vulnerable persons understandable and accessible is essential, yes, but legislation is needed to establish minimum banking obligations as an essential service provider. The closure of offices, the restrictions on services and the dismissal of thousands of workers to replace them with call centres or self-employed fakes with a commercial contract cannot continue. No action has been taken with regard to the costing of financial services, the increase in fees, the obligation to maintain face-to-face services or the reduction of cash hours. As bank performance accounts increase, quality employment services worsen. It is essential to open a serious debate on this issue and to bet on a new regulation of the banking sector that meets people's needs and not the increase in bank profit margins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u8	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u9	Thank you very much, President. The hate snake has been laying eggs - right here, every week - and one of those eggs has hatched in Betara. Two girls take out the rainbow flag in high school and the center makes them remove the flags, as the protocol states. The next day, other students take out Spanish flags and when a teacher tells them to withdraw them, following the protocol of the institute, physically and verbally assault him alluding to his sexual condition, with shouts from Spain!, live Franco! and others of homophobic character. Spanish flags with flags representing people's rights. To reflect. Some will be happy, but it is to reflect. Minister, we will vote in favour of this law. For the first time, a great deal of compromise amendments have been accepted, which has been unheard of in the ten years that we have been in this House. Amendments by the Senator of Compromís Carles Mulet have been accepted to include gender biases, all of which have been endorsed by the Cermi - I am finishing - and measures to improve banking care for older and vulnerable people; eight amendments that have crystallized in a transactional so that there is a permanence of ATMs; for more staff to attend to people; for the use of simple, understandable and inclusive technologies; and for greater security against scams and thefts. In short, we believe that the law improves with these contributions and we will therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u11	Thank you, President. We often only associate vulnerability with a lack of economic resources, but the factors that can make a consumer or user vulnerable can be of a different kind, gender, social, territorial or economic, and can make a person more exposed to scams, frauds or bad marketing practices. Public administrations have a commitment and responsibility to protect the most vulnerable and, for this reason, we note that for the first time the concept of a vulnerable consumer is included in the state rules for the defence of consumers. However, it seems to us that there is insufficient recognition of the co-official languages of the State and we believe that greater protection should be offered to linguistic vulnerability. There is another opportunity to strengthen the multilingualism of the State and to enable citizens to read labels or sign contracts in their own language. We also welcome the incorporation of disability and gender as potential elements of vulnerability in the Senate, as well as the commitment to develop a Braille alphabet label on a regulatory basis. We consider it key to ensure accessibility to all services and forms of consumption so as not to exclude or leave anyone behind. And, speaking of exclusion, we welcome the incorporation of a plan of measures to promote financial inclusion, especially in the older age group. The PeCAT registered an initiative last week in this regard to contain the closure of bank branches, especially in rural areas, and to provide spaces for the face-to-face care of elderly people. In this group we will ensure that the banking sector and the Ministry of Economic Affairs comply with their commitments. Finally, I do not want to end my intervention without recalling that the Statute stipulates that exclusive competence in the field of consumption rests with the Generalitat of Catalonia, so in PeCAT we have doubts about the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u13	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day. We have all risen with the sad news that the worst human will, the worst human barbarity, has sounded in the form of war sirens. From the Confederal Group we wish to recall that not only must we imagine a world in peace, but we must build a world in peace, where all people can live in peace and quiet. [[Applauds]] Having said that, in the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-Galicia in Communo-En Comú Podemos we would like to thank all the parliamentary groups in the Senate for their efforts to work together on the amendments that are being debated in this House today. We would also like to thank the Ministry of Consumer Affairs for its efforts to enable the debate on this law, which brings new rights for vulnerable consumers. Today's amendments for adoption emphasize the ultimate objective that made the birth of this bill necessary: the protection of consumers in their consumer relations, the empowerment of people to make informed decisions and the establishment by law and in an up-to-date manner of the basic rights of consumers and users. We believe that the bill promoted by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs responds, to the extent possible, to imbalances in consumer relations, to the historical ones relating to liberalism, to the free market and to those that appeared in the digital age and increased by the situation of the pandemic. However, the amendments passed in the Senate have increased the security and equality in consumer relations that this bill has been pursuing since the beginning. The amendments introduced in the preamble reinforce the recognition of situations of vulnerability, those related to the fact of being a woman in a society still with sexist biases, and even, and in a remarkable way, those situations of vulnerability that reinforce each other, such as being a woman and living with situations of violence, sexist violence, sexual exploitation, trafficking or with capacities that hinder the commitment of what we have come to call, I believe, in an evil way, normal life. Perhaps we should consider that it is not people who are disabled, but rather that it is the society that we build that is disabled in order to solve the different needs in which we meet people throughout our lives. So I think our goal and our obligation is to train society. In this regard, we welcome the amendments introduced in the first additional provision to develop Braille alphabet labelling, as they deepen the capacity of society to respond to the needs of blind or visually impaired people. We also welcome the compromise amendments aimed at ensuring that information on commercial and pre-contractual goods, services and communications is provided in a format that ensures accessibility for all people, so that they can make optimal decisions for their interests, and that they pursue equality. In this respect, in the area of equality, we also wish to highlight the amendments to the third additional provision, in order to guarantee the rights to financial services to all citizens. The financial exclusion of a part of the citizenry, resulting from the constant and persistent closure of bank offices and ATMs in the last decade, has become an unspeakable reality that particularly affects vulnerable groups and must be reversed immediately for equality and social justice. On the other hand, not only at the practical level but also at the doctrinal level, the view is growing that access to banking services is not merely a consequence of a commercial activity, of a commercial activity, but is a real right of the citizen who, although not yet regarded as a fundamental right, should not be ignored by the public authorities, and more so in a financial and technological context in which access to banking assets is becoming indispensable and basic. In this context, the public authorities have a responsibility to articulate the necessary instruments, in this legal case, to reverse the situation and ensure the financial inclusion of citizens. I should like to inform you that we are already working on this in our parliamentary group. For all these reasons, my parliamentary group will support the amendments that have been tabled in the Senate and tabled in this House today. We thank the Ministry of Consumer Affairs for the initiative that has prompted this debate and these legal changes, and we also encourage it to continue working in this direction. Taking advantage of the time I have left, I wanted to say one thing to Mr. Díaz of Citizens. Excuse me, I'm letting you go now, it's a very fast thing. It's just that I thought you wanted to have coffee with Mrs. Colau. If you want to have that coffee with Mrs. Colau on the couch of your home or wherever, I will send you the invitation, because in dialogue and in the defense of people's rights is where you will find it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that we are going to say no to this savagery that it does nothing but protect crime. We are not going to support this infamous way of frivolating with something as sensitive and dramatic as people in vulnerable situations. [[Applauds]] Okupas are not vulnerable consumers, because the only thing consumed by the Okupas is the property of others; the property of others, the resources and mental health of good Spanish citizens who witness astonishment at how their rights are curtailed, because this Government protects, protects, promotes and encourages illegal okupation. [[Applauds]] Article 47 of the Constitution gives you, the public authorities, a mandate to ensure access to housing. In times like those we are experiencing this happens because they solve the structural deficit of public housing and social rent and facilitate the supply of housing. Okupation, ladies and gentlemen, is the way. It is not the mechanism for access to decent and adequate housing. This law is an armed robbery of the savers. It is an indirect expropriation of the houses of the Spaniards. And you know what? Of the houses found in the most humble neighborhoods, which are suffering 80 % of this scourge in the face of the indolence of the public authorities. [[Applauds]] This is not a vulnerable consumer defense, this is an attack on our rule of law, and you know quite well - if not you, yes the army of advisors who work for you - that it is unconstitutional. That is why VOX has already brought its 14th appeal before the Constitutional Court. Not to mention the parties referring to ports, hydraulics and discharges, which have nothing to do with the title and which violate article 245 of our Criminal Code. But, of course, they have to give content to a ministry of girl and turnip - which should never have gone from general leadership - and defend their positions within this infamous government, and will resolve the Constitutional Court within a couple of years; while, they already have their budgets tied up, which is really what interests them. For something they voted against our initiative to limit the time limits of the Constitutional Court's resolution. It is the PSOE style: to legislate unconstitutionally to please their bands and then, when the Constitutional Court resolves, skins to the sea. However, along the way there are victims who feel helpless and helpless when they claim their rights before a Government that is transferring a responsibility that is theirs - from the Government - to them. They transfer the problem of housing to the owners, thus transferring the situation of vulnerability to the owners as well. [[Applauds]] Vulnerable consumers are the Spaniards who see 72% light up, 23% gasoline, 23% housing, and who see the IPC shot and a shopping basket that is increasingly difficult for them to fill. Vulnerable Consumer is Maria Luisa, a 57-year-old woman who has been in need of psychological help for two years, the years her tenant does not pay her the rent of her house in Carabanchel Alto. In five years he had no problems, but the pandemic arrived and his tenant took over his social shield and stopped paying. Maria Luisa is living... well, she's sleeping on a friend's couch. A friend - less bad than there are good people - who, in turn, lives with her husband, daughter-in-law, two children and a grandson. And, meanwhile, María Luisa continues to pay for the expenses of supplies of her inqui okupa, the expenses of her housing and the judicial expenses. Vulnerable consumer is Bethlehem, of Benalmadena, who, after three years, two weeks ago has recovered his home. Yes, the 86-metre house that his father left him where he grew up and spent his childhood. He has recovered it destroyed, without appliances, completely vandalized and has had to pay 38,000 euros between supplies, lawyers, prosecutors, and for that he has had to be indebted. Now fixing the house would cost you another 30,000 euros and you don't have them. Who's the vulnerable? [[Applauds]] In VOX we have it clear, we offer law and order, and social housing. Law and order as in the proposals of law that we have presented before this House to provide legal tools to our Security Forces and Bodies in order to immediately evict and raise the penalties of usurpation of property, which are now punished only by a fine, to four years in prison. Of course, that's another one! With the reform of the Criminal Code of the People's Party in 2015, illegal misappropriation went from a serious crime to the new category of minor crime, which is merely an administrative sanction. It is just that you too, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have given these criminals a very easy clue. [[Applauds]] You have not come to improve the lives of anyone but yourself. They use other people's property and create legal insecurity, when what they have to do is build social housing and facilitate the offer to improve access and scour prices. Can you imagine if those who preceded us had not had legal certainty? Do you think anyone would have built something? And now they come with the threatening new housing law to give more legal insecurity and completely strangle the housing supply; all the fruit of budgetary negotiations between you that have nothing to do with solving the problem. They have already been warned by the General Council of the Judiciary of the legal uncertainty of the rule and of interference in private property, and do not give them the approval; but they do not care. Mr Sicilia has already come out to say that he is sucking her, that they are going to disregard the position of the General Council of the Judiciary and they are going to implement the same law. Law and order, ladies and gentlemen. Law and order to protect our citizens. Law and order to maintain the foundations of our rule of law: freedom, equality and property. Law and order to be able to give protection to families in need. Between those who do and those who do, we are with those who do, and you already know where you are. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Garzón, I'm glad that you've joined us and that you've already replaced the COVID. This is your first law after two years and I tell you one thing: it is a law that does not solve the problems that consumers currently have in a vulnerable situation. Nor does it solve the problems related to banking care, much less those of the owners with what they have done to legalize the housing otupation. Minister, it gives the impression that you and your government have given themselves in body and soul to the bank, and now I will explain it to you. From the formal point of view, this law is a veritable aberration, and you, who appear not to be a hunter, have begun to set traps in this law so that we have to approve yes or yes. You know that in this law there are five pages with the modification of articles of the consolidated text and there are eight pages of other issues that have nothing to do with the vulnerable consumer, such as harbour centers, temporary workers, railway sector, illegal okupation, General State Budgets and hydraulic public domain. What nobody understands, Minister, is that it happens at the most problematic time for consumers. [[Show a chart]] This is a graph of the OCU where more than 40,000 people have complained about banking services. In the Senate process, you and the PSOE have not tabled a single amendment to resolve this problem, and we sincerely believe that you should have done so. I would like to remind you that we have this law in the Constitutional Court because the first additional provision legalizes the octopus of housing. Minister, it seems unacceptable that, when forty-nine homes are usurped every day, when the housing otupation has grown by 18% and when this is creating in many areas extremely serious problems of coexistence and security, you make a frontal attack on private property legalizing the temporary expropriation of a house, shielding the otupation and legitimizing the usurpation of a house. The obligation to solve the housing problems of the people who have them is the responsibility of the State and the Government and cannot lead to this responsibility towards the homeowners, because there are many who are also vulnerable. Do you know why they do it? Because you and your Government have failed in rental aid, failed in housing alternatives in evictions, and failed in support of vulnerable tenants. What do we propose? We have put forward an amendment for you to bring to this Parliament an anti-Okupation law that does something important: to combat okupation, to defend private property, to protect rights holders and to ensure peaceful coexistence and also security. We will always defend the owners and, therefore, in our proposal we propose that the ocupation be a crime, that the eviction be done in twelve days and that the owner immediately recover the housing. [[Applauds]] But what is the most important problem that consumers have at the moment, Minister? I just told you: the problem of banking users. But you are looking at other issues - you are looking to save the planet, to save the climate and to change the eating habits of the population - rather than giving solutions, as the People's Party has done, which has tabled two amendments in the Senate to solve the banking problem that users have at the moment. You have missed an opportunity for a law to reach a compromise, because what you have actually done with that protocol that you have now approved with banking is a toast to the sun. We'll see how it works. We sincerely believe that at this time there are far too many older people who are very concerned about the difficulties in accessing the bank they have. We are talking about third and fourth-year-olds, but also about those consumers who do not have digital skills even if they are not older or those consumers who are in a vulnerable situation. We do not understand why the Government has done absolutely nothing. I would like to take this morning to thank DonCarlos San Juan, who highlighted the problem that they had much older with the 'I'm older, not dumb' campaign, which got 600 000 signatures; also the Platform of Mayors and Pensioners, which last week met with us to tell us about the problem they have, and some colleagues who have helped me to draft a non-law proposal that is already in this Parliament and which is part of the amendments that we have tabled in the Senate. The situation is a perfect storm and a kind of obstacle race for the elderly. [[Show a document]] Do you know what problems the biggest banking users have right now? The closing of the banking offices, because they have closed more than twenty thousand in recent years; the reduction of schedules in the window - now you have to go running because as soon as you neglect it has already closed -; the obligation of prior appointment; the reduction of telephone and postal care; the lack of computer devices - many older and many people do not have an iPad or a digital phone to be able to do business -; the absence of computer skills; the complexity of cashiers, because it is a gallimatías to be able to access a cashier; the difficulties of computer applications - some apps are impossible to download -; the obligation of passwords and authentications that make it impossible to make a digital management, plus the insecurity that many older feel. At the moment, 20,000 banking offices have been closed, 68.4% of those over 65 are in what is called a digital blackout situation and there are more than 4000 municipalities that do not have banking institutions. 46% of the bank's resources are over 65 years old - 350 billion between pensions, savings plans and savings that have the largest - and of almost 9.3 million over 65 years old, 62% do not have the capacity to handle online banking or Internet connection or 5G or broadband; in addition, 74% use cash, cash, and have to access the bank in some way. What an opportunity the government and the bank have missed to solve this problem that affects them preferentially! What I do not understand, Minister, is that you have not been aware of this issue. We have tabled two amendments: one, that the banking is personalized and, two, that the attention in the municipalities under 5000 inhabitants is done by Correos, which is one of the few public services that still remains in the rural environment and that would allow direct access. [[shows a photograph showing a Post van]] We are going to support the compromise amendments that have been adopted in the Senate because we believe they improve the law, but I have to tell you, Minister, that it is unfortunate that you and your Government, being able to include the resolution of the problems of bank users in this law, have not done so and derive it from the customer service law.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u18	Mrs. Riolobos, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u19	We will be pending because for us all consumers are important. Good morning and thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Riolobos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u21	Thank you, President. Welcome, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today Parliamentarians in this House are given the opportunity to pass an eminently social law; a law for equal opportunities, for universal accessibility and to protect that very high 39% of the total Spanish population who suffer from any situation of vulnerability in their consumer relations. The protection of vulnerable consumers requires the urgent adoption of the measures provided for in this Act. And you know, of course you do, and that's the big deal. Therefore, believe me, in my parliamentary group we deeply regret that today the benches of the right have decided to lose a magnificent opportunity to lift the finger of the button of confrontation, manipulation and demagogy, because the only thing they have shown this morning has been that they have not been able to understand where we are. We are improving the lives of the citizens of our country and you, the right-wing people, have decided not to vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you spoke of law and order. I imagine that law and order also for those members of your party convicted of breaking the law and not paying for the illegal works of your house, right? [[Applauds]] I guess so for them, too. Believe me, there is no worse demagogy than the one that plays with the vulnerability of people, because the arguments that are twisting here this morning are not true so as not to support this law. They know perfectly well that this law does not give free bar to the Okupas, so I hope that they have enjoyed infusing fear, fear and anguish among the Spanish families, because it is the only thing that would explain the nonsense of the hoaxes and lies that have been poured here this morning in this rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, this law does not violate the right to private property, it does not paralyze anything of its own motion, it only empowers the judge - if he considers it so - to give a housing solution within three months and, in this way, not to leave minors, dependents or victims of gender-based violence on the street; only in these cases assessed and, if the conflict is not resolved within three months, the launch continues. And only if they have blocked the housing of a large fork, natural or legal persons holding more than ten dwellings. In addition, it is obvious to say that for these stoppages an economic compensation has been established that the big forks can request. So stop penalizing poverty, praising unfounded fears among Spanish citizens, pathetically defending causes that do not need you to defend them, simply and plainly because you are not in danger. The regulation of the vulnerable consumer figure, which is what this bill really deals with, has been politically driven by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on several occasions and today it will be a progressive majority that takes it forward. [[Applauds]] And who are these vulnerable consumers you have decided not to support today? Who are they? You have decided this morning not to support consumers living in rural areas without access close to financial institutions and other services. They have decided not to support older people who do not understand online procedures and need face-to-face attention. They have decided not to support low-educated consumers or those with some kind of disability. They have decided not to support minors for their lack of defence against commercial communication or those who have difficulty accessing technological resources and following their online training. They have decided not to support people with food intolerances or allergies who need additional information in food purchases or in catering spaces. And it's just, ladies and gentlemen, here I want to wink at my land and say that this is one of those nice, really nice laws. [[Applauds]] It is one of those laws that, when we look back, will make us proud to have been part of it. Therefore, thanks to the groups who accompany us today in the rostrum: Cermi, ONCE Foundation, Platform of Mayors and Pensioners. Thanks to all of you who are also part of the content of this law for your valuable contributions that have been transformed into amendments through dialogue and work. I would also like to highlight the work done by my colleagues in the Senate to improve the text of this law - Manuel, Aurelia and Mrs Carmona, thank you - and also that of my colleagues in Congress - Caesar, José Ramón and also Iñaki; colleagues, thank you - because this law has a little bit of yours. During its proceedings, we were the majority of parliamentary groups who wanted to give us the opportunity to work, negotiate and dialogue in order to incorporate and negotiate a total of fifty-three amendments with a single objective: to improve the response to vulnerable consumers. It ended not without telling them some questions that may have gone unnoticed for consumers that we are not in a situation of vulnerability but that can mean a world for those who suffer it. This law extends the letter of contracts to make them more accessible to vulnerable groups; this law approves the regulatory development of a Braille alphabet label to ensure the accessibility of blind and visually impaired persons to goods and consumer products of particular relevance; this law for the first time expressly includes the obligation of companies to provide the necessary support to vulnerable consumers. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to care for those who have cared for us, cared for us and will always accompany us. With this law we respond to a question of generational justice. With this law we respond to the requests of the collectives and platforms of older people, we respond to and respond to that initiative of Carlos San Juan that has moved us all, because with this law it is a question of ensuring the presence of banking services for older people and for all those collectives for whom access to financial services through new technologies is a reason for exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, are you really going to miss the opportunity to support these measures? Believe me, the only ones who lose here are you, because this law will be brought forward by the parties in this House that we have decided to give our hand to improve the lives of vulnerable consumers. All of them, that majority, those collectives, that parliamentary majority, thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Consumer Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Without re-opening the debate, I simply express my gratitude to all the parliamentary groups that have contributed to improving this law, both in the Senate and in Congress; they have contributed with amendments, they have contributed with compromises, they have contributed with negotiation and dialogue. I think the result is very positive for society. We talk about vulnerable consumers and any of us or ourselves at some point in our lives can be, if we're not already. I believe that this law extends the rights of society and has been thanks not only to all the rapporteurs who have participated in the Courts, but also to part of civil society - and I would particularly like to refer to them who are also present here - which has pushed to combat financial exclusion and to combat discrimination, for example, against groups of persons with disabilities. I especially thank Cermi, whose demands for decades have illuminated dark spaces in our legislation. Some of their demands have been incorporated and I think it is a success for society as a whole. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 27/2014 OF 27 NOVEMBER ON THE SOCIETY TAX, AND THE REFUND TEXT OF THE TAX ON THE INCOME OF NON-RESIDENTS ACT, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 5/2004 OF 5 MARCH, IN CONNECTION WITH HYBRITISH ASYMETRICS [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 4/2021 OF 9 MARCH]] [[File number 121/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u25	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Amendments approved by the Senate to the bill amending Act No. 27/2014 of 27 November 2014 on corporation tax and the consolidated text of the Non-Resident Income Tax Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree No. 5/2004 of 5 March 2004, in relation to hybrid asymmetries, from Royal Decree-Law No. 4/2021 of 9 March. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u26	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on hybrid asymmetries returns to the plenary session of Congress. With regard to this draft - which we will support, because we agree with the technical amendments which it suggests and which derive from a European directive - we would like to highlight on this occasion the amendments introduced by the Socialist Parliamentary Group - and which are already included in the presentation report which is now being voted on - relating to the sanctioning regime and the regulation of model 720 for the declaration of goods and rights abroad. As is well known, the Court of Justice of the European Union has just given an important sham to the Spanish Tax Agency by considering the information declaration, model 720 on goods and rights located abroad, as illegal, in its recent judgment of 27 January 2022. This is an obligation approved at the time by Cristóbal Montoro, Minister of Finance with the Government of the People's Party, according to which residents in Spain must submit annually an information statement on the possession - and, if necessary, variation in value - of their property and rights located abroad. In the eyes of the European Court and in the opinion of the European Commission, which initially denounced our country, the obligation to present this information model violates the principle of free movement of capital enshrined in the Treaty on European Union. According to the Court, this obligation may deter residents of the Member State - in this case, Spain - from investing in other Member States, preventing them from doing so or limiting their chances of doing so. European justice has also ruled on the leonin sanctioning regime imposed on the case of non-compliance or failure to comply with this obligation, claiming that the consequences for the taxpayer are disproportionate in relation to the objective pursued for several reasons, including the lack of prescriptibility of the action by the Administration and the unjustified disproportionality in the amount of the fines demanded, an extremely repressive type in the words of the court, which can reach up to 150 % of the quota corresponding to the imputation of unreported income. It is true that after this ruling the Government has acted with a certain speed - it has no choice - and has introduced amendments in this bill to change the aspects of this information statement and the proposed changes are appropriate, so we will vote in favour, although we believe that it is now time to move towards a model in which it is the Tax Agency that prepares a model declaration with all the information it has on that taxpayer and that it is only necessary to confirm the data in its case. But, at least, it has acted, and that is what we are celebrating, although we want to make it clear and highlight that in Citizens we have been interested in this issue on repeated occasions and have shown it to the Government over and over again, the last one last summer during the course of the anti-fraud project. [[The Lord]] It is incredible that we are proposing identical amendments which have now been tabled and which have had to include the Government in a hurry and in a hurry. They really rejected them by passing the roller, as they always do, because they were presented by Citizens. I believe that this is a new opportunity to show that the Government is always late and always wrong and that from Citizens we usually expose or warn about situations that can cause problems for our Government and carry a charge for the budgets of the State. And now we want to ask you: Does the Government count on an economic estimate of what it will cost the public coffers, in terms of the State's patrimonial responsibility, to return the sanctions, now considered illegitimate and disproportionate, to those taxpayers who potentially initiate procedures to claim them? They didn't count on that. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the gravity of the situation currently taking place by Russia invading Ukraine, I would like, on behalf of the Democratic Party, to transfer all support to the Government of the Spanish State so that, within the framework of the European Union and within the framework of NATO, all measures can be taken to curb this misunderstanding. Obviously, we must do our utmost to ensure that there is no war, but we must also not show weakness in the face of positions that do not occur for the first time on the part of Russia and its leaders. Having said that, Mr President, I am thinking about the amendments to this bill in the Senate. The most significant, obviously, as the previous speaker said, are in relation to model 720, and here I would like to make several reflections. First, urgent action is being taken because there is a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and that must make us all reflect. In the area of taxation, we must be aware that it is slow but the Court of Justice of the European Union imposes its criteria and we are subject to them. I say this because a few days ago we discussed here a subject on which the Court of Justice of the European Union has also ruled and is going to rule: on the application of VAT to subsidies and also to research and development, and which must therefore be complied with in the end. And I also want to make a reflection for your ladies and gentlemen, although you may not like this one so much. The judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union have to be complied with because we are in Europe, and they have to be complied with when they refer to the tax field and they will have to be complied with when they refer to the status of MEPs and they will have to be complied with when they refer to the situation of President Puigdemont and other MEPs at this time in exile. I leave it here because surely a few months from now some of your ladies and gentlemen are going to have to recover this intervention. Turning now to the matter, first of all, before these corrections to tax legislation and the General Tax Law, one must also have a retrospective view and must express thanks. And from this rostrum I would like to thank the Association of Tax Advisers, which submitted the complaint in 2013 and has followed the whole procedure. You see, the issues take a long time, but in the end they come and they are right. Therefore, to the Association of Tax Advisers I congratulate and thank you for your work. And I would also like to have a memory for two eminent tax collectors, who wrote the first complaint in this regard, Antonio Duran-Sindreu, and Ramón Falcón and Tella. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] Therefore, my thanks from here not only to the two of them, but to all the legal team that has maintained this struggle before the Court of Justice of the European Union. And what have you said that you do not agree with European legislation on 720? Essentially, two things: the disproportion of sanctions - a 150% penalty of undeclared property had no meaning whatsoever, it was absolutely disproportionate - and, secondly, the non-opportunity to apply the prescription in the case of those goods not initially declared in model 720. This situation is rectified and corrected. The Government has acted quickly. Perhaps yours would have been a real decree-law, this indeed was a matter of urgent necessity, because you will have to see what happens to all those undeclared assets in 720 before the sentence and the statements made between the sentence and tomorrow, which is when this is going to be published in the State Official Gazette, although in any case that is already the responsibility of the Government, which is obviously the responsibility of the Government. We are going to vote in favour of these amendments that come from the Senate. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u29	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said here today, on 27 January the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that the Spanish legal regime associated with the obligation to declare goods and rights abroad, i.e. the famous model 720, according to which persons are obliged to account for all goods and rights they possess outside the country, does not comply with European law. We regret that the court has ruled in this direction, because we frankly believe that in no case did it affect the free movement of capital. On the other hand, it seems clear to us that all efforts to ensure that economic actors provide reliable information to States are few, given the glaring lack of global governance on the subject and the corresponding erosion of the tax bases that countries have been suffering increasingly over the past decade. In any case, and despite not agreeing to one hundred percent with the content of this judgment, our country is obliged to comply with it, logically. Moreover, it is with some urgency, since it is a matter of avoiding, as has already been said, that it affects the declaration of property and rights abroad of 2021, which, as you know, will begin next March. Well, it seems that the fairies have coincided times and dates, so that the handling of the hybrid symmetries bill was in the Senate's hands when the content of that sentence was known. In this way, the Upper House has been able to legislate in extremis to bring several specific points of our legislation into line, and it seems to us, therefore, that it is fair to thank and give thanks for these efforts since Congress, and my group will therefore vote in favour of these amendments. However, we believe that the European Court has sent at least one misleading or confusing signal to the States and citizens of the Union with this judgment, because the BEPS Project, against the erosion of tax bases and transfer of profits, developed by the OECD, has already warned us almost a decade ago that the financing of States, at least social states as we know them, would be compromised in the long term if decisive and coordinated actions are not taken at a global level. Well, the long term of 2013 is now, it is now, that is why the European Union would have adopted a guideline that operates along the lines of the recommendations set out in that famous report. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress of the past two years, the fight against circumvention and tax fraud is one of the most pressing outstanding issues that Spain has at the moment and I would say that the European project itself. Moreover, at a time when the melon of fiscal reform is about to be opened, we would not do so if we did not incorporate this perspective into the reform. According to a number of studies, if our country managed to bring more than a fifth of the productive activity out and thereby reduce the levels of the submerged economy to the European average, some €40 billion more could be raised. GESTHA calculated a figure of 38 billion per year lost due to the submerged economy in Spain a couple of years ago, which is not a small amount, especially if the objective is to approve Europe, i.e. if we want our public health to have at least 7 % of GDP, as is the case in Europe - I remind you that Eurostat was setting Spain at 6.1 in 2019 - if we want our education to be financed by 4.7 %, as is the case in Europe - Eurostat was setting Spain at 4% - or if we want our investment in social protection to increase to 19.3 % of the GDP that Europe has, and not 17.4 % of Spain. For this reason and despite the important step that we have taken today to complete this last stage of processing, we cannot give ourselves, much less, satisfied. Moreover, the sine qua non condition for us to make progress in rights in the framework of a productive economy not burdened by fiscal imbalances is that the international community joins efforts to legislate in a coordinated manner in the fight against fraud and against the existence of tax havens, which push us all to be a little closer to hell. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mr Vice-President: Thank you very much. [[Rodriguez Gómez de Celis]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u31	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are faced with a bill, that of hybrid asymmetries, which returns again to Congress, as other parliamentary groups have said, after passing through the Senate for approval today. The draft law transposes a Community directive, the main basis of which is to avoid tax avoidance, in such a way as to prevent transactions between an entity of a Member State, in this case Spain, and another of a Member State or third countries from occurring where the same expenditure is deductible twice, which is deducted from expenditure without weighing the equivalent income, the double non-inclusion of an income or the double use of tax credits. We call these situations hybrid asymmetries and they are presumed to be hybrid legal qualifications that cause tax asymmetries that can be used as instruments of aggressive tax planning to achieve the objective of tax avoidance. However, the bill of Royal Decree 4/2021 leaves much to be desired and demonstrates once again the abuse and totalitarianism of a Government that interferes with the legislative power, making it a despotic and absolutist regime. [[Applauds]] And it is, ladies and gentlemen, because this government has kidnapped the legislature, and I explain myself. Because during its proceedings in Congress the spokesman for the Socialist Group stated that it should not have been dealt with as a bill, and yet an amendment of the Socialist Group was incorporated into its proceedings, making the remaining amendments that improve the legislative text, and then in the Senate used this bill to incorporate seven more amendments. The rejected amendments emphasized the elimination of the cascade effect of tax groups and the temporary abolition of the digital services tax, better known as the Google rate, which we believe should be done within the OECD environment. In fact, the introduction of this tax has been a failure, having raised up to November 165 million of the planned 968 million. And secondly because of what has been experienced in the Senate, admitting several amendments from this parliamentary group and producing a legislative latrociny whose excuse has been that the Google rate suppression amendment submitted does not have the proper relationship of congruence with the bill. However, seven amendments of the Socialist Group have been incorporated into the draft law, including six relating to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on model 720. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: If the amendment concerning the Google rate does not maintain the proper relationship of congruence with the bill, do the amendments concerning the amendment of model 720 do so? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and other co-religionaries who support the Government, you are usurping the General Courts' legislative capacity, damaging both institutions and generating in citizens tiredness and mistrust. [[Applauds]] However, with regard to the incorporation of the amendments of the PSOE into the draft law on the sanction imposed on Spain by model 720, it is necessary to explain what it is, because I am sure that many in their homes will be asking and I am convinced that many of your ladies and gentlemen do not know it. Model 720 is an information statement, which is presented each year in March, which relates to goods and rights located abroad and is presented in excess of EUR 50 000. And this started in 2013, when Cristóbal Montoro was Minister of Finance; a model that did not take into account the prescription and sanctions 150% of the undeclared amount, curiously two of the criteria for which Spain was sanctioned by the Court of Justice of the European Union. A striking example of Hacienda's abuse of this model is the famous case of the retired taxi driver from Granada who declared out of time that he had 340,000 euros of a participation of a sicav in Switzerland and for which he had to enter Hacienda 188 000 euros, that is, 55% of what he had, and a sanction of 150%, that is, 254,000 euros, was claimed. In total, 442,000 euros were claimed, 102,000 euros more than he had. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, stood idly by while this taxpayer was being sanctioned, in addition to collecting and confiscating much more than he had, and did nothing to change it. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have been ruling since 2018 and could have processed or changed the legislative text so that these sanctions would not apply or that the prescription would be taken into account. In fact, in 2015 you suggested to the government that model 720 should be presented as an out-of-date declaration, avoiding the application of the 150% penalty. Why didn't they change it when they came to the government? Out of ineptitude? You've been portrayed. But this disintegration is even worse because, during the processing of the draft Law on the Prevention and Combating of Tax Fraud in May 2021, this parliamentary group and the deputy speaking to them in the debate in the Commission of the said Law, within the amendments, defended number 75, which proposed the repeal of several articles of the Law on Corporate Tax and Law 7/2012 which have to do with the imprescriptibility of model 720 and the disproportionate application of sanctions, so Spain has been sanctioned. It turns out that now the government, nine months later and after the sentence on Spain's costs, incorporates the same amendment that VOX presented in May, in an act of cynicism proper to an incompetent and ineffective government. [[Applauds]] Once again VOX was right and proposed in May last year the possibility of repealing part of the legislative text on model 720. And, as always, the absence of common sense in your ladies and gentlemen demonstrates your political blindness. Dependence on a charge irreparably damages the optic nerve that allows them to discern reality. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u32	Thank you, Mr. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, from the People's Party we would like to reiterate our support for the Government in the coordinated response with the European Union and NATO to the Russian attack on Ukraine. We strongly condemn this aggression and convey our solidarity to the Ukrainian people. Good morning. Today we are discussing Senate amendments to the bill amending the Corporation Tax Act and the Non-Resident Income Tax Act in relation to hybrid asymmetries. We have already said at the time that it was the transposition of a directive from the European Union to avoid precisely the so-called hybrid asymmetries, which would allow for double international deduction. The Government, as has been said here, has used this process in the Senate to incorporate a series of amendments to model 720, of declaration of property abroad, to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We will therefore vote in favour of these amendments. It must be said that the right to require the declaration of property abroad is maintained in order to avoid tax fraud. But I want to delve deeper into this issue, because to understand the context one has to retreat to the moment when this model 720 is made, to the year 2011, when the Socialist Party went out the back door because it did not know how to manage an economic crisis. The People's Party came to the government and we find ourselves in a fiscal hole. Tax revenues had fallen from EUR 442 billion in 2007 to EUR 387 billion in 2011. This is the context in which model 720 is made. Mr Rodríguez Zapatero left the country in ruin, with 90 billion euros of deficit, Social Security in deficit, frozen pensions, more than five million unemployed, reduced the salary of officials by 5%, increased VAT, the IRPF, tax on savings, eliminated the baby check, cut child benefits, the Disability Plan, etc., that is, they made the biggest cut in the welfare state of all democracy. And Mr. Sánchez voted in favour, you have to remember. After all this cutting, they left the drawers full of invoices: 40 billion euros of unpaid works in Fomento, 16 billion euros of deficit in the health sector. We had to make an urgent payment plan to save thousands of businesses and independents that were closing. That is, we find a country on the edge of the cliff. [[Rumors]] And in this context, ladies and gentlemen, it was necessary to bring forth the money and the goods that the Spaniards had taken out of the country in recent years...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u35	...in the face of fear of an intervention or of a corralite, as happened in Greece. Well, with this measure, you know that 103,340 million foreign assets out of a total of 176 000 declarants, that is, an average of 600,000 foreign assets per declarant, which, along with the other model, 750, allowed to increase the collection of the fight against tax fraud from 10,463 million euros in 2011 to almost 15 billion euros in 2016 and 2017. In other words, the collection was increased by 50% precisely at a time as critical as it was in 2012. The problem is that when you talk about taxes you don't tell the truth, because we increase the collection, but not by raising the light, the diesel, the shopping basket. The problem is that you talk about tax increases to the rich and tax to the great fortunes, but what you are doing is sinking to the middle and working classes, who are suffering in their meats the fiscal sandstone of the left and the extreme left. And the only growth - let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen - that families and businesses see is the brutal rise in taxes and the highest inflation in the last thirty years. And the Spaniards can no longer, with the rise of light, of fuels, of raw materials or of the shopping basket. And you, in addition to suffocating them, take away their assisted breath, i.e. from ICO investment loans, which could be used to give our companies oxygen, it turns out that only 26% has been set aside. And meanwhile, debt in historical peaks, foreign investment falling. We remain at the head of unemployment in Europe, at a rate of 13.7%, doubling the EU average of 6.4%. And, if anything, almost 200,000 jobs have been destroyed in January; 200,000 people have lost their jobs, 20,000 more than in the last two governments of the People's Party. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and in view of this scenario it is only their intention to declare secret the management of the rescue fund of the companies in order not to be held accountable and to refuse to detail the criteria for the selection of the beneficiary companies and the amounts granted. This smells bad, ladies and gentlemen, and let's hope we don't end up like Plus Ultra in the court for aid to a company that didn't meet the requirements. Of course, we are barely going, ladies and gentlemen, with these decisions of little transparency. But going back to the subject before us - and I finish, Madam President - the People's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Fuentes Curbelo has the floor. [[Rumors]] I'm asking you for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the amendments incorporated in the Senate to the bill amending the Corporation Tax Act and the consolidated text of the Non-Resident Income Tax Act in relation to hybrid asymmetries, as has already been said. This is a rule within the framework of the European Commission's package of measures to combat tax avoidance, which directly indicates the functioning of the internal market and which originates from the final reports of the OECD BEPS projects and from the erosion of tax bases and transfer of profits. [[The Rumors Continue]] The measures incorporated in this draft law came into force with the validation of Royal Decree Law 4/2021 of 9 March, the purpose of which was to transpose Directive 1164/2016 into the wording given by Directive 952/2017. These measures aim to put an end to tax misadjustments and distortions that were used as a mechanism for erosion of the tax base and artificial transfer of profits. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u38	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Fuentes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you again for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u39	In other words, tax planning is being combated by some multinational companies operating in more than two jurisdictions in order to try to benefit from different tax legislation to the detriment of State finance rights. The aim is to protect against corporate tax evasion throughout the European Union, while ensuring a more just and stable environment for businesses. The aim is to increase fiscal transparency and create a level playing field for all companies in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments which are incorporated in the Senate and which we are debating today seek to solve a problem which has been highlighted by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the problem inherited from Mr Rajoy's government; Mrs Spain, inherited. It is a problem that the Government and this Parliament have to solve. We have had to solve the problem inherited from capital gains. The government has solved the settlement of the VAT of 2017 that generated Montoro, transferring this year 496 million euros to the municipalities. It is now up to us to resolve some aspects of the declaration of goods abroad questioned by the Court of Justice and which we have corrected with the amendments today. It was a complementary measure to the tax amnesty carried out by Mr Montoro, who forgave those who were not taxed for goods abroad. By the way, it was a tax amnesty declared contrary to the Constitution; an indecent measure that forgave tax to the defrauders while raising VAT to the entire citizenry. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Spain, that did go to fry at taxes. Summary: VAT went up to everyone in general; they passed unconstitutional tax amnesty; they helped the big fraudsters in this country; they cut the number of tax inspectors by 10%, and they came to vote against the Anti-Tax Fraud Act. So lessons from good managers, none, Mrs. Spain, none, and the fight against tax fraud and corruption, much less. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, combating tax fraud is a priority for us. More is being collected in the fight against tax fraud. The budget of the Tax Agency has been increased by 9% and two thousand places have been called. Ladies and gentlemen, fighting tax fraud does not mean raising taxes. It's fiscal justice and it's social justice. It is absolutely false that we have raised taxes during the pandemic and it is absolutely true that taxes have never been higher in our country than when the People's Party ruled. [[Applauds]] It is irresponsible to constantly question taxes, since they play an indispensable role in ensuring the provision of services and meeting the needs of citizens in the face of adversity. Remember ERTE, minimum living income, pensions, aid to self-employed people, vaccines, which are measures that, although you voted against them, have helped to alleviate the effects of the crisis. By the way, they do not intend to divert attention: the Government's vetoes of its Senate amendments justify that they have nothing to do with the purpose of the bill. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of these amendments, which seek to incorporate a four-year limitation period, bring sanctions into line with the general regime and adapt national legislation to comply with the judgment in order to comply with existing European rules. We comply with justice and we comply with Europe. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you cannot say the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Fuentes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u41	We conclude with the last item on the agenda, concerning the proposals for the plenary of the Chamber for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the promotion of the ecosystem of emerging companies and the draft law on the reform of the consolidated text of the Competition Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020 of 5 May. These proposals will be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of this meeting. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. We started with non-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the return of VAT unduly charged to research and development projects. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 323 plus 7 telematics votes, 330; in favour, 162 plus 2 telematics votes, 164; against, 117 plus 1 telematics vote, 118; abstentions, 44 plus 4 telematics votes, 48.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u43	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - OF THE PLURARY PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE PUBLICITY OF CONTAMINANT VEHICLES. [[File number 162/000925]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u44	No bill by the Plural Parliamentary Group on the prohibition of advertising of polluting vehicles. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal and Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 plus 7 telematics votes, 332; in favour, 5; against, 272 plus 3 telematics votes, 275; abstentions, 48 plus 4 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u45	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u46	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for a resolution by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on measures to attenuate the disparate costs of industrial production, restore their competitiveness and defend employment, with particular reference to the growing uncertainty for different sectors, including that of the electro-intensive industry, as well as the disappearance of the aluminium plants in Asturias and Galicia. We vote separately by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 plus 7 telematics votes, 331; 153 plus 2 telematics votes, 155; 149 plus 4 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 22 plus 1 telematics vote, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u47	The point was therefore rejected. [[Rumors]] Is it approved? [[Pause]] The item was adopted. [[Applauds]] Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 plus 7 telematics votes, 331; 154 plus 2 telematics votes, 156; 149 plus 4 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 21 plus 1 telematics vote, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u48	Paragraph 2 was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 plus 7 telematics votes, 331; 147 plus 2 telematics votes, 149; 154 plus 4 telematics votes, 158; abstentions, 23 plus 1 telematics vote, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u49	Consequently, point 3 is rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 plus 7 telematics votes, 332; 146 plus 2 telematics votes, 148; 155 plus 4 telematics votes, 159; abstentions, 24 plus 1 telematics vote, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u50	Point 4 is therefore rejected. We voted on point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 7 telematics votes, 333; 183 plus 5 telematics votes, 188; 119 plus 1 telematics vote, 120; abstentions, 24 plus 1 telematics vote, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u51	It was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO ENJOY THE DECIDED PENITENTIAL POLICY OF SPAIN. [[File number 173/000124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u52	Motion for an urgent debate by the VOX Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to prevent ETA from deciding on Spain's prison policy. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 327 plus 7 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 144 plus 2 telematics votes, 146; against, 183 plus 5 telematics votes, 188.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u53	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the policy of the Ministry of the Interior for the prevention and eradication of the criminal activity of organized and violent groups of young people. [[File number 173/000125]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u54	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the policy of the Ministry of the Interior for the prevention and eradication of the criminal activity of organized and violent youth groups. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 327 plus 7 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 96 plus 1 telematics vote, 97; against, 182 plus 5 telematics votes, 187; abstentions, 49 plus 1 telematics vote, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u55	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u56	Voting of the requests for avocado by the plenary of the Chamber for the deliberation and final vote of the draft General Law on Audiovisual Communication, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel, and also by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 328 votes in favour, 320 votes in favour, 327 votes against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u57	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u58	Senate amendments. Draft Law on the Protection of Consumers and Users from Situations of Social and Economic Vulnerability, coming from Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 of 19 January. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to Preamble I, paragraphs twenty-second, twenty-ninth. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 7 telematics votes, 333; 278 plus 6 telematics votes, 284; abstentions, 48 plus 1 telematics vote, 49.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u59	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendment to Preamble Y, paragraph twenty-sixth. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 7 telematics votes, 333; 326 plus 7 telematics votes, 333.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u60	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendment to article 1st Eight. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 327 plus 7 by telephone, 334; in favour, 269 plus 6 by telephone, 275; abstentions, 58 plus 1 by telephone, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u61	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendment to the second, new additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 334 votes in favour, 318 votes in favour, 325 votes against, 9 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u62	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendment to the third, new, additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 327 plus 7 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 184 plus 5 telematics votes, 189; against, 50 plus 1 telematics vote, 51; abstentions, 93 plus 1 telematics vote, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u63	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendment to the seventh final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 327 plus 7 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 232 plus 6 telematics votes, 238; abstentions, 95 plus 1 telematics vote, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u64	The amendment was therefore adopted. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 327 votes, plus 7 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 265 plus 6 telematics votes, 271; against, 48 plus 1 telematics vote, 49; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u65	The amendments were therefore adopted. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 27/2014 OF 27 NOVEMBER ON THE SOCIETY TAX, AND THE REFUND TEXT OF THE TAX ON THE INCOME OF NON-RESIDENTS ACT, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 5/2004 OF 5 MARCH, IN CONNECTION WITH HYBRITISH ASYMETRICS [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 4/2021 OF 9 MARCH]] [[File number 121/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u66	We turn to the bill amending Act 27/2014 of 27 November 2014 on corporation tax and the consolidated text of the Non-Resident Income Tax Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 5/2004 of 5 March 2004, in relation to hybrid asymmetries. Block vote on amendments to the bill amending Act No. 27/2014 of 27 November 2014 on corporation tax and the consolidated text of the Non-Resident Income Tax Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree No. 5/2004 of 5 March 2004, in relation to hybrid asymmetries. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 334 in favour, 259 in favour, 5 in favour, 264 in favour, 68 in favour, 2 in favour, 70 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour, 2 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u67	The amendments were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u68	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of requests for avocados by the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the promotion of the ecosystem of emerging companies, presented by the parliamentary groups Plural and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 7 telematics votes, 329; in favour, 321 plus 7 telematics votes, 328; against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u69	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary. - DRAFT REFORM LAW OF THE REFUND TEXT OF THE COMPETITION LAW, ADOPTED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 1/2020 OF 5 MAY, FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVE 2019/1023 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 20 JUNE 2019, ON PREVENTIVE RESTRUCTURING FRAMEWORKS, EXEMPTION OF DUTY AND INHABILITIES, AND ON MEASURES TO INCREASE [[EU]] THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RESTRUCTURING, INSOLVENCY AND EXEMPTION OF DUTY PROCEDURES, AND AMENDING DIRECTIVE 2017/1132 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL ON CERTAIN ASPECTS OF THE RIGHT OF COMPANIES [[DIRECTIVE ON RESTRUCTURING AND INSOLVENCY]] [[File number 121/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u70	Voting of applications by the plenary of the Chamber for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law amending the consolidated text of the Competition Law, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020 of 5 May. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 7 telematics votes, 329; in favour, 322 plus 7 telematics votes, 329.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-24-CD220224.u71	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary. Have a very good day. The meeting rose. It was eleven o'clock in the morning.
