ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2022 of 15 March, which provides for urgent measures to support the agricultural sector due to drought. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u2	Good morning. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you, on behalf of the Government, to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2022 of 15 March, by which urgent measures are taken to support the agricultural sector because of drought. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u3	Forgive me, Minister. I'm asking for silence, please. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u4	On 15 March, the Council of Ministers adopted a package of urgent measures in support of our agricultural sector in order to deal with the protracted drought that we suffer, so that agricultural and livestock production would not be compromised by this. The primary sector is a priority for the Spanish Government, as I have pointed out on many occasions in this House, and this is a new example of this. Two years ago he asked his lords to validate the decree-law on urgent measures in the field of agriculture and food which we adopted at the harshest time of the pandemic and our farmers, farmers and fishermen, and our companies, cooperatives and agri-food industries gave us everything at a very hard time to supply us with food and drink. Two years later, the agricultural sector is affected by a problem that could not be expected by any of us, but which has been worrying, such as drought. In this period, medium-term forecasts do not change trends, despite the rains that have occurred in recent days and weeks. Indeed, the hydrological year ending 30 September2021 had a precipitation of 5% below the average of the previous ones and, since then, particularly in the period from 1 October 2021 to 1 March this year, has only made it worse. In fact, the average rainfall in Spain was 40% below the average and 60% in the Guadalquivir and Guadiana basins. The reservoirs' hydraulic reserve is slightly above 40%, i.e. on a significantly lower average than in the last ten years and, as I indicated a moment ago, the basins of Guadalquivir and Guadiana are the most affected and, indeed, the object of this royal decree-law. This has been accompanied by an increase in the prices of some inputs, especially since the second half of last year, and by the current supply crisis in the world economy, aggravated, as was discussed yesterday morning before this plenary in the face of the President of the Government, by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Obviously, in this context, we have been forced to adopt measures which I believe are favourable to the whole sector, as set out in another royal decree-law, 6/2022 of 29 March, which will be debated and considered in this House in the near future, but which I do not resist mentioning because they allow an overall reference in some of its traces of the fundamental content of the support that our primary sector currently receives from the public budget. Firstly, we have decided that EUR 169 million will provide direct support to the beef, sheep and goat milk sector, which I believe is an excellent news for a sector with a high vulnerability in its value chain. Secondly, 193 million for all other sectors. This afternoon I am meeting with the Autonomous Communities and we are going to begin to identify the sectors which should be the subject of such aid, aid of 64.5 million which I obtained last week from the European Union - the activation of Article 129 of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets - and the rest, that is to say 129 million, are in charge of the general budgets of the State, are the contribution of the Government of Spain to supplement these funds received from Brussels. Thirdly, the measures on beards, which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, can be extended to some 600 000 hectares on the whole surface of our country and which can enable cereals and sunflower crops to be activated, increasing production at a time like this, which is particularly necessary. Going to the issue that brings us here today, to Royal Decree-Law 4/2022, I would like to tell your ladies and gentlemen that our intention and forecast is to have an economic reach of around 450 million euros in direct repercussions for the sector. I will briefly state the content of the measures. Firstly, tax measures, those relating to the reduction of the tax base of the unique objective estimation system of IRPF modules, affect a total set of 918 000 farmers and livestock farmers and are therefore measures whose scope is very remarkable; they represent a reduction in the tax base of EUR 500 million and we estimate that in IRPF quotas they can amount to EUR 82.3 million. Secondly, the IBI exemption for agricultural and livestock holdings with a reduction of 30 % compared to normal production figures in previous years. The total amount paid by IBI in Spain is €454 million. It is true that part of the receipts are combined between agricultural and residential areas and it is therefore difficult to make a concrete estimate, but we estimate that the impact will be at least EUR 200 million in this area. The second major block is linked to liquidity facilitation within the primary sector. Here, we create a new line of support ICOMAPASAECA, with 10 million euros, which means the possibility not only to improve the vouchers, but also to reduce the main one by 10%. We estimate in principle - it is an expandable line - that for the sector its reach can be at least 100 million euros. Secondly, the SAECA guarantee bonus of EUR 2.7 million. And, thirdly, an element that seems to me fundamental, as well as certainly to your ladies and gentlemen, which is the additional EUR 11 million of our combined agricultural insurance plan, which is one of the best instruments we have to respond to all the unpredictable issues that arise in relation to agricultural and livestock activity in our country, which are covered by a very modern system that since 1978 has been a model within the whole of the European Union. Thirdly, the measures linked to the CAP and to the implementation of the CAP, i.e. the flexibility of crop rotation in relation to the implementation of the CAP this year and, above all, in relation to the drought and the increase in the progress of next October, which the European Commission has responded positively. Fourth bloc, social measures, the postponement of social security quotas. In this decree law which we bring to validation today to this House, on 4/2022, a period of March to May had been planned but precisely the one approved yesterday by the Council of Ministers, on 6/2022, extends it - to the knowledge of its lords - from March to June; therefore, the postponement of those quotas of Social Security which in this case belong to the agricultural sector, that is to say to the Special Agrarian Regime of Social Security. Secondly, a classic measure undoubtedly linked to the drought situation, which is the reduction in the number of peonadas or actual days paid to receive the agricultural subsidy, which falls from thirty-five to twenty in relation, of course, to the agricultural campaigns. And, thirdly, the consideration of fixed breaks, the new figure adapted to the adoption of the new labour reform, so that those working up to a maximum of six months may also be eligible for agricultural subsidies or corresponding unemployment. Finally, the last block - the fifth block - is the one dealing with water issues. As regards water, I would like to emphasise first of all the exemption from the regulatory fee and the exemption from the water tariff on the basis of the appropriations used. Our projection implies, in the case of the Guadalquivir basin, a possible profit of 41 million euros and 10 million euros in the case of the Guadiana basin. Similarly, the approval of surveys amounting to €9.65 million in an extraordinary way in relation to this situation, certain measures, particularly in the basins of Guadalquivir and Guadiana, of urgent works and also of actions corresponding to this context and, finally, the reduction of the prices of the rates of the desalinated water and those corresponding to the Jucar-Vinalopó. All water measures amount to approximately EUR 146.47 million. I would like to emphasise, ladies and gentlemen, that what I said a moment ago in relation to IRPF modules will be complemented, as is the case with all campaigns, by the decision to be taken next April on theinclemencies and reductions in production in the year 2021. I would like to stress that this 20% reduction is a horizontal reduction. I'm done. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a good instrument, a good package of measures which is undoubtedly a timely answer to a very important question, which must be seen and read in a complementary way which we adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers on the questions arising from the increase in the prices of inputs and the consequences on the functioning of agricultural markets. In any event, it expresses the will of the Government which I represent in this act, in this House and at this time to work for the whole of the primary sector, for our farmers, for our farmers, for our fishermen and, ultimately, for this agri-food system which not only provides us with food and drink in sufficient quantity and quality, but which it does, without a doubt, with self-denial work, with hard work which I believe your ladies and gentlemen and this House should positively reflect with the validation of this royal decree-law, which I ask you to do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2022 of 15 March, by which urgent measures are taken to support the agricultural sector because of the drought. It is clear that drought is one of the environmental problems that decisively affects farmers in all Spanish regions and, in this case, with greater severity to the Guadiana and Guadalquivir basins. Drought is a natural phenomenon that identifies the decline of precipitation in a period - in our case at a very long stage - and that affects a large part of Spanish geography - to a greater extent to the mentioned basins - and it is also a shortage understood as the lack of water resources to meet the set of demands, being therefore dependent on human action. In both basins, many temporary units of scarcity are in an emergency situation, and most are in a pre-alert situation. Drought affects both irrigation farms, which depend on the flows of embalmed water, irrigation canals and those obtained from underground wells, as well as farmers with drought farms, farmers who take advantage of pastures and also protected areas, such as Doñana, and has long been noticeable, for example, in the Daimiel Tables. Drought affects all drinking water resources, including those of human consumption. Current indicators warn of very severe drought levels due to the succession of several very dry years and restrictions on irrigation crops. The very explanatory statement of the actual decree indicates a decrease in precipitationmoderate in the hydrological year 2020-2021, of 5% on average values, but in the hydrological year 2021-2022 the decrease of precipitation is 38% and the hydraulic reserve in the month of March only reaches 40.5 capacity, that is, 20 points less than the average of the last ten years. As a result, the adoption of short-term measures is inescapable and we will therefore support this royal decree. But, on the other hand, we want to propose to the House the need to maintain a far-reaching reflection. Precipitation data indicate that drought is not circumstantial but must be part of a general process of desertification, a phenomenon of natural origin that extends through the Mediterranean basin. In addition, human action on land uses causes desertification in much of this territory. Increasing demands for water lead to a shortage of water resources for the necessary uses in different basins. Hydrological planning has infrastructures and technical tools developed for managing them, but we must admit that in many territories it is reaching a limit situation that requires as soon as possible to develop adaptation strategies to a new climate scenario. Denying it is socially comfortable, acting as if it did not happen can be sustained for a while, but both attitudes will only lead us to very serious problems. The geography of Spain shows us to what extent water is a limiting factor both for life, for societies, and for the settlement of the population. Any observer - and much better the farmers or farmers who live in the territory - knows that the humidity of the soil is currently very superficial, that the percolation of precipitation barely reaches a few centimeters and that evapotranspiration acts quickly past the rainy days. In other words, people in the countryside know that drought is already chronic - it is not a short-term event - and that it is necessary to adapt to these environmental circumstances. Therefore, we propose that the issue be addressed in Congress, beyond the emergency measures contained in this royal decree, based on the scientific analysis specialized in climate, agronomy and environment. With precipitation data from an extended period, for example in the last 60 years, the seriousness of the drought and the desertification process suffered by Spanish geography must be analysed and known. It is necessary for the legislative branch to have scientific analyses such as those indicating that the deforestation of certain areas, e.g. the eastern and southern sides of Javalambre and Gudar, causes a decrease in rainfall on the Mediterranean coast and in the southern sector of the Iberian System. It is necessary to listen to scientific teams who have been working for decades - such as the New Water Culture Foundation - to know the limitations of the productivist approach to water use, to promote scientific-technical debate from an interdisciplinary approach and to transfer the problem to society and how to know and improve management models. We know, for example, the National Climate Change Adaptation Plan 2021 to 2030, which will have to assess its results and, if necessary, make progress in legislative actions. That is why we would like to propose that, within the framework of the Ecological Transitional Commission, the problem of desertification, the reduction of rainfall, flows and, consequently, the shortage of water resources in Spain can be addressed at the Congress. It is about transferring what science already knows to the House to act accordingly. The objective would be to create a scenario of opportunities for farmers to adapt and maintain their farms and crops. It is also about preserving ecological flows and caring for the environment and protected spaces. We need scientists specialised in this field to present their analyses in Congress in order to know the reality in depth, to present examples of measures to enable society to adapt to living in a more dry environment, as well as to address the problems arising from the shortage of rainfall in the short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. As stated in its own title, the main purpose of this Decree-Law is the adoption, as a matter of urgency, of a series of measures to support the agricultural sector in order to cope with the prolonged drought situation and the increase in production costs generated by the current international economic situation. These measures, which fall within the areas of taxation, labour and social, financial and hydrological security, are established in order to contribute to the maintenance of the profitability and sustainability of agricultural and livestock holdings and to address the effects of this situation on workers in the sector in relation to social protection measures. Both the preamble to the decree law and the memory of the normative impact analysis accompanying its text, clearly and sufficiently explain the situation caused, on the one hand, by the drought suffered in the watersheds of Guadiana and Guadalquivir in the agricultural sector, which particularly affects the communities of Extremadura and Andalusia, and, on the other hand, as a result of other variables affected by international trade and the invasion of Russia and Ukraine. It is argued that the delicate situation described calls for the urgent adoption of the support measures developed by this rule, while at the same time accrediting the connection of the measures adopted with the situation that is intended to be affected. We wonder whether we really have to continue to think about exceptional measures when - Mr Guitarte has said so too - the issue of drought has already come to stay in some places and has become quite structural, so we cannot, year on and year on, come up with emergency measures and not develop effective policies to deal with this phenomenon, which at some point will have to be faced with more than emergency measures, I suppose. We think it's time we took this leap. Otherwise, every year we're going to come up with emergency orders. Apart from the measures mentioned above, this Decree Law also provides for a number of provisions which have nothing to do with the title and the extraordinary and urgent need expressed in connection with the pertinence and prolonged drought and other circumstances affecting the agricultural sector, which the Minister has not mentioned. Including this sort of thing we've been criticizing every time the government does some sort of maneuver, and that's many times. Because it seems that, on the one hand, they want to avoid the procedures that would be appropriate to them and, on the other, to hide under the mantle of a decree of urgent measures of another kind. And we wonder: why do they do it? Why do they always do this? Suddenly, they put in a decree on drought other measures and, moreover, not even name them, as if they were hiding them. We don't understand. As we said, this royal decree-law provides for the immediate implementation of the measures of reduction of working hours and suspension of contracts of work of the Network Mechanism, of flexibility and stabilization of employment, as provided for in article 47 bis of the Act on the Status of Workers. This mechanism and precept was introduced in the Workers' Statute through Royal Decree 32/2021 and for its activation required normative actions of development, which is what this specific measure is aimed at, and on the one hand, the effective constitution of the RED Fund and the provision of the precise economic resources and, on the other, the development of the applicable procedure for its administrative processing. Nothing in particular can be said about these provisions, except that their wording maintains this technical indefinition on the so-called social security contribution benefits, although, as we have already had the opportunity to state in the debate on Royal Decree 32/2021, we believe, they participate in the nature of the active employment policies, expressly recognized in the memory of that decree law, in accordance with its legal definition contained in Article 36 of the Employment Act, so we reiterate that we are in the presence of areas of competence, in this case the Autonomous Community of Euskadi as long as the active employment policies have been transferred and assumed. However, the reason for the Government's adoption of these specific regulations is provided for in the explanatory memorandum itself and is linked both to the loss of validity on 31 March - i.e. today - of the measures to transition from the temporary employment regulation dossiers caused by the pandemic to the new temporary employment regulation dossiers of Article 47.bis, and to the need for companies belonging to economic sectors which have undergone structural and permanent changes to take immediate measures of transition and retraining in order to overcome situations of structural difficulty. In this line, the Royal Decree makes special reference to companies belonging to the travel agency sector, a sector with a very poor recovery behaviour, which, rather than in the pandemic, has its cause in a structural change that the sector itself suffers. Therefore, and as provided for in Article 47a, the enjoyment of the measures of the RED Mechanism requires prior activation of the Council of Ministers and therefore, and since the measure was adopted before yesterday, on 29 March, both undertakings and workers in the sector concerned may apply to the administrative labour authority for the benefit of the measures of flexibility and stabilisation of employment referred to in Article 47a and the social protection measures for workers affected by the application of the RED Mechanism contained, as we said, without a solution of continuity with the ERTs still in force and from 1 April onwards. [[LET]] [[LET]] We will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, but, we repeat, we do not like this game of hiding or truffle of measures that, under one name, hide another as well. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u10	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to debate a real decree which, in addition to including measures to alleviate the problems that drought is having in our country, also includes a series of urgent measures to help the livestock and agricultural sector. We are going to support this royal decree, Minister, because we believe it is important to take such measures, especially in the moments we are living, but we have to look not only at the urgent and short-term problems, but also at the structural ones. Why am I telling you this? Because two years ago, just before the pandemic began, farmers and farmers were on the street and were manifesting themselves in other kinds of problems, problems that obviously did not have to be solved because we were barely a week ago on the street again with farmers and farmers asking for measures from the government, which were more involved with the sector, because they really are not enough. And I do not want to miss the opportunity to tell you, Minister, we also have to deal with those structural problems that they have; problems that will worsen not only because of the war in Ukraine, not only because of the rise in prices that we are seeing from the inputs, not only because of the lack of cereals to have food for the animals in the livestock farm, but also because of the problems of drought. We believe that this royal decree does take positive steps to curb, or at least temporarily alleviate, drought problems for this year. This drought also seriously affects Guadalquivir's territory and watershed, as it says here, but also other communities, such as Murcia, in a very worrying way. In some territories, such as the Gibraltar Field or the Ampurdan region, measures had to be taken to limit the risk of gardens or green areas, as well as the use of water for street cleaning. This means that the problem is becoming structural and that a long-term plan may have to be implemented to take steps not to take a scare after and have to take them urgently, hurry and run. Situations like this are repeated in the great waterings also of the Ebro, as well as in our neighboring country, Portugal. With this, we have to look at the long term not only in the short and medium term, but in the long term to solve these kinds of problems. To this structural situation of poor water management we must add, as I said, the crisis of electricity and gas prices, which are already months of unbearable rises. I want to tell you something, minister, here is a motion that brought Citizens so that you can activate that double rate for the moments of irrigation and the times when the field needs less water. We're still waiting for it to start. Farmers were stoned; here we negotiated with the Socialist Party and with the United We can, but we find that this measure has not yet been implemented. Why when in this Congress, in this plenary, measures are adopted that the sector is asking are not implemented quickly? It is not a measure that we have invented, it is not a measure that harms anyone, on the contrary, it is what the sector demands. That's why I wanted to draw your attention to this too. The measures that are being adopted or the initiatives that we are bringing here must try to get underway as soon as possible, especially when there is an agreement with the government parties. We believe it is important that measures be taken and have been taken, but this royal decree, as you can see, has been short. It remains short because they have taken further steps in the royal decree adopted yesterday. They include measures, for example, for the dairy sector. I ask you, since you have advanced something from this royal decree. And for the meat sector there will also be specific measures, will there be specific aid? Because the sector also needs another kind of help. In short, I have to say that we are also glad that they have taken fiscal measures to alleviate the impact of higher costs, but I also have to go back to the law of the chain, Minister. The chain law did not solve the real problems that the sector has and these problems are now getting worse because production costs are rising. There are even problems with the arrival of inputs on the subject of the war in Ukraine. That is why I tell you when everything is committed to the law of the chain, as this government has done, we can find ourselves with a surprise; it is a law that does not solve structural problems, and when a sector has basic problems, when urgent problems come to short-term problems the sector is very difficult to react to. That's what worries us. We will support this royal decree because, as I say to you, we believe that it has measures for both the issue of drought and fiscal measures that can help the sector at a specific time, but we cannot lose sight of the structural problems, which are very serious problems. In addition, we talk about a sector that worked tirelessly during the pandemic, which did so, even at first without knowing and putting its own health at risk. They are the first link in our country's agri-food chain and need a lot more help. So, minister, we have to tell you that we share the concern and indignation that farmers have and that they have been demonstrating because they have not been given the opportunity to accept that electric contract that I was telling you. Something very important is also the discontinuous fixed contracts. The sector is still calling for a solution to this problem. The labor reform was important, it was good for this country and Citizens supported it, but we have to take into account that fixed discontinuous for a sector like agriculture is something basic. Thus, just as measures have been taken on the accounting of aid for the RED system, they also have to look at these fixed discontinuous contracts so that the sector can absorb the staff needs to work gradually and depending on the season, the collection or the time of production at which they are located. Minister, I ask you more, Citizens ask you more. We need to solve the structural problems, which continue to reach the Internet in rural areas, which can implement R & D measures more easily. If we do not solve these problems, any urgent action will become obsolete very quickly. We will vote in favour of this royal decree because, as I say, we believe that there are measures that can help on a timely basis, but do not lose the long-term and structural problems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am not going to go into assessing measures in relation to drought because I have to admit that I do not know in depth the reality of the most affected areas and I do not want to make the same mistake or arrogance as those who speak Galicia or legislate without really knowing our reality. But I do want to point out that the Galician agricultural and livestock sector is going through a very difficult situation, aggravated by the uncontrolled rise in the price of electricity and now also other essential elements, such as inputs or transport, but that it is really structural and that the field has been dragging for a long time. Although this decree states that measures, in addition to drought, are set out to compensate for the increase in production costs and for the current international economic situation, the truth is that we do not see them in this decree and only partially in Royal Decree 6/2022. Measures such as postponing social security contributions by paying their interest - even if they are 0.5% - or accessing a ICO credit line may be a momentary relief, but they will in many cases, regrettably, result in a debt spiral. By the way, the measures contained in Royal Decree 6/2022, adopted this Tuesday, also seem clearly insufficient for both the overall amount, 123 million euros, and the fact that only 24 million will go to production other than milk; in Galicia, for example, leaving a fundamental sector as that of meat production separate. In any case, as I said, the main problem, which I believe, is structural in relation to production costs and the security right not to sell at loss. Therefore, Article 9 of the Food Chain Act should be amended in the sense of the amendment tabled by the BNG in its own right, and which you rejected, so that the cost certification can be carried out by competent public bodies and officials. As long as this is not changed, the aid will unfortunately always be insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u13	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the countryside it seems they're always in the perfect storm. Now we have the storm of fuel increases and electricity costs. We add the worsening and increasing of inputs: official fertilizers, always the competition of third countries, and, lastly, the low prices that have never just come back. We have seen it this year in the case of the citrus campaign. Also now, in case there was a short time, the drought is added. It is usually a dry year, especially in some accounts in the south and the Mediterranean, but it is becoming more and more frequent despite what some negatists say, who yesterday were striving to deny the effects of climate change in this very House. We tell him that Compromís will support the validation of the decree. With all that implies giving aid to the countryside, Compromís is absolutely in agreement, although - as some agricultural unions point out - the decree will probably be short because the VAT extra paid for the cost of these inputs will be eaten many of these aids. To finish, a reflection. If there's less and less water, you can't increase watering, and I'm not just talking about Doñana. They are going to allocate 25 cubic hectares of the Xúquer River - the Júcar River - for irrigation in La Mancha Oriental, an absolutely overexploited river that is unable to regenerate. It is extracted much more from its capacity to recharge and, in fact, at some times of the year the Xúquer river dries up in some sections of the Valencian basin. If authorizations for concessions for illegal wells are added to the increase in these 25 cubic metres, the aquifer is being depleted. In that sense, I think we will have to be much more demanding when it comes to authorizing aquifer catches, such as these extra cubic hectometers, to waterings of a river that is already exhausted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u16	Thank you, President. Minister, this Royal Decree-Law establishes support measures for those holding agricultural holdings. The measures aim to promote the recovery of the profitability of these farms affected by drought and the increase in production, oil, electricity, raw materials and fertilizer costs, aggravated in recent months by the war, by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In our view, much of the problem is solved by the actual and effective application of the food chain law, which ensures that prices cover production costs. The sector is experiencing a serious situation which puts the viability and continuity of many companies at risk. We understand that the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, through various formulas, such as the war response shock plan and the present royal decree-law, are making an effort. Minister, I recognize your efforts, but I have to say to you very much that these measures are insufficient. Postponement of social security contributions. It's the same as saying bread for today, hunger for tomorrow. The debt will finally have to be settled. It may give some relief, but it simply lowers the treasury tension. Reduction in 2021 of the net yield calculated by the method of objective estimation in IRPF and VAT. In a normal context, it is an effective measure, but in the current scenario it is insufficient. With it, the increase in production costs is not recovered. Actions in relation to the financing of the primary sector, ICO line, MAPA-SAECA. We know that liquidity, having circulation, is very important at the moment for the sector. We are concerned about two issues in this respect: that the role of the paper at the time of processing must be easy and agile and that the resources must be sufficient to accommodate all the farms concerned. I read the last sentence of Article 6.8 of this Royal Decree-Law: 'The aid shall be granted in strict order of presentation until the budget limit is exhausted'. Action on the CAP, in the line of making certain requirements more flexible. It is an action demanded by different agricultural organizations. We will vote in favour of this royal decree and also of its processing as a bill. Insufficient measures? Yes, but ultimately necessary measures to try to save a sector that was considered essential during the pandemic, with an important role of territorial vertebration and population fixation, key to reversing the problem of depopulation in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comuno, I give the floor to Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u18	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Despite the hope that the rain will bring us in recent days, it should be remembered that, according to official data from the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, the peninsular hydraulic reserve is around 50% of its capacity. In fact, it is a value that is less than half the value of last year and is 40% lower than the average of the last ten years. The national average value of precipitation accumulated at the beginning of the hydrological year 20212022 was 40% lower than normal. Here, too, we need to remember how the Andalusian basins are, above all,. The Guadiana and Guadalquivir basins are the most affected. The reservoirs in Andalusia are 30% of their capacity. It has rained around 20% less than in the same period in previous years. The situation is very serious because, in particular, 80% of the Guadalquivir basin is declared exceptional and this basin supplies 3 million people, 554 municipalities and 890 hectares of irrigation. As he said, the data reveal with cruelty that the drought is being gnawed especially with the basins of the central and southern peninsula, Castilla-La Mancha, Extremadura and Andalucia, which are territories that are seeing their productive viability compromised and, therefore, the crops and livestock for this campaign. [[Rumors]] These are the consequences of worsening and accelerating external processes that are causing climate change. Today we are talking about urgent and extraordinary measures, but drought is no longer an extraordinary issue, but a structural one. What we are beginning to need, in addition to these urgent measures, which are particularly fundamental at the time, is to reduce the dependence on irrigation and mass production to protect the extensive and traditional. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u19	Excuse me a second, Mrs. Franco. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to follow the debate. I almost heard more of her conversations than the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u20	Thank you, President. The 'brother-in-law' of extreme right-wing climate negation is trying to cover it up, but it cannot be covered up because this clumsy reality leads us to deepen the determined struggle to face the causes of the environmental and civic crisis. The problem of the extreme right-wing eccentricities about the great globalist conspiracy - and this is indeed of the silver paper cap - would have been even fun if it were not because those who suffer it, as with drought, are the affected areas. It must be said that the primary sector is not defended by the negationism of the extreme right, which has voted against the sale at loss, i.e. they did not want to prohibit the sale at loss, they wanted to legalize it with an amendment to the food chain law, and whenever they want I bring their own amendment for review. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Moreover, in 2018, with the last government of the People's Party, in their last budget they also did not come to protect the primary sector because, among other things, they imposed a special tax on petrol and diesel, which amounted to 342 million more, which affects the gas sector crisis that we currently have. Moreover, VOX does nothing, yesterday or before yesterday, tweeted that the electricity industry was at a very difficult time, but it is an industry that has 40% more profits than last year and that also refuses to negotiate with the state government a shock plan to protect our economic sectors from rising prices. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the climatic conditions that the agricultural sector is suffering, conditions which are now compounded by the widespread increase in production costs, the inflationary moment that we are experiencing, and also the speculative increases in the energy costs that it was talking about earlier, with a speculative instability that is also resulting from Putin's savage aggression against Ukraine. It is not necessary to make a very careful analysis to realise that all these added elements are giving us as a result the ingredients of a terrible and bloody storm that is threatening the economic viability and, thus, the survival of many farms, especially those of small families, which are the ones that will spill over the local economy and those that give life to our rural areas; they are therefore putting employment and our food security and sufficiency at risk. This royal decree brings measures to tackle, as I said, this environmental crisis, this drought crisis and is focusing where the problems really lie. The Government is therefore acting with measures such as improving the characterisation and allocation of the combined agricultural insurance scheme; also with the creation of funding lines with the granting of non-reimbursable bonus credits and actions on the common agricultural policy or the recovery advance, as well as with measures to make social security and PRTI more flexible. In particular, as regards the payment of social security contributions, also with a reduction of the day from thirty-five to twenty peonadas so that people working in agriculture in Andalusia and Extremadura can receive unemployment benefit and agricultural and agricultural income subsidies. As I said, structural measures must also be developed, particularly in the areas of the environment. This exceptional situation in the pandemic and the current complexity leads us to take other measures, such as that, in the face of the reduction of the twenty peonadas, we must start thinking about a reduction to twenty peonadas in a structural way and a reduction to ten peonadas in an exceptional way, as at the moment. As Andalusian I am particularly concerned about the development and effectiveness of urgent measures to alleviate the effects produced in the Guadalquivir basin. I am also particularly concerned about the intention of the People's Party, VOX and Citizens to legalize illegal irrigation in Doñana, putting it in jeopardy, but also endangering farmers in Doñana, the County population and of course, the image of red fruits...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u21	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u22	I'm done with this, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that many measures can be put in place to continue to alleviate these extraordinary and also structural effects, but above all we must bear in mind that we are at a time when all these measures have to be shared as a common vector one, which is nothing other than the safeguarding of our small and medium-sized producers and the defence of life in the rural territories of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Franco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u24	Thank you, President. Minister, a previous one: Mr de Podemos, Mrs Franco, we are looking forward to you ruling United We can finally lower the bill from the light. [[Applauds]] You are the government of ruin, of lies, the worst government at the worst time, but also the government of excuses and, Minister, you have not said it, but you have surely thought that the drought we suffer in Spain is also the fault of the war in Putin, yes? [[Laughter]] The field agonizes, dies of thirst. Farmers and farmers want water, they don't want loans; they want tools to work, they don't want subsidies; they want legal certainty and not an endless bureaucracy; they want to give people food without dying of hunger in the attempt, and they want them to listen, they don't want palliatives, but the chronic disease they suffer disappears and, for that, I'm sorry, but, gentlemen of the government, you must leave because that is the urgent thing, you must leave. [[applause]] This royal decree-law, which the government wants to justify under the premises of urgency and extraordinary, aims to mask a problem that persists in Spain for decades: drought. You yourself, in the preamble to this rule, say that in Spain, from the hydrological year 2012-2013 to the present, there has been a situation of precipitation well below the average, ten years, which I believe is sufficient time to realize. Therefore, you are the Government of the last minute, at the stroke of royal decree-law and in time of discount, but it is that your inaction costs lives. With this rule you are not offering a solution to the problems of the field, it is another patch to cover the wound, but the wound remains open even if you want to hide it by wearing bandages, and the longer you leave it open, in the end it will gangrene and then the field will die without remedy, and if the field dies, we all die. Or do you think the bread comes from the oven or the potatoes from the bag and the chops from the fridge? [[Applauds]] The tax and social security measures they raise are time-limited measures because, after ten long years of drought, as we have just said, you are sure thinking that from June this year it will rain a lot and the problem will disappear. What, for example, are they based on to provide tax relief, reducing IRPF yields by 20%? Why not 30 or 25, or Social Security deferrals due to May or June? They are discretionary measures that translate into bread for today and hunger for tomorrow; I believe it is a flight forward without addressing the origin of the problem and without offering a bottom-up solution. I'm going to give you some notions of mathematics for progress and basic taxation. If agricultural and livestock farms, as a result of the rise in prices of raw materials, energy, fuel and less production due to this drought, have incurred losses, how would they benefit from a 20% reduction in yields if they do not have yields, if they do not have profits? [[Applauds]] 20% of zero is zero. This, Minister, is not a tax benefit, it is a laughing stock of our farmers and farmers. Since our parliamentary group arrived in Congress, they have done nothing but point out to you as a negator of everything - Mrs de Podemos has just done it - but it is here that the only negators I believe are you, that with ideological sustenance and your climate fanaticism do not want to see the reality. Without food sovereignty, we'll fill the refrigerators, you know what? Paper from the BOE, which is very ecological and very resilient. [[Applauds]] Since the VOX Parliamentary Group we have put forward hundreds of initiatives that propose real long-term solutions to the problems of the field, but you reject them by system. If the initiative is VOX, we must vote no. Those are their principles, the denial of common sense and the well-being of the Spaniards. The Spanish agenda that VOX proposes - yes, for all of Spain, that of which you sometimes want to laugh -, which is an agenda in front of the globalist progressive agendas, in point 17 says the following: Water is a resource of all Spaniards and it must be ensured that it reaches all corners of the nation through the interconnection of all basins - the Ebro is also Spanish -. [[Applauds]] In addition, a new national hydrological plan will be designed and implemented under the principles of solidarity and common good, because the abandonment of the national water policy is condemning rural Spain to become thirsty and dying Spain. In Spain we have 50% of our territory at risk of desertification and the opportunity to recover millions of hectares of irrigation if we are able to get enough water to all corners. We must ensure that water is a resource accessible to all Spaniards in each region of the country, defending farmers against the criminalization of the use of water. To date, only two out of every ten euros of the investment envisaged in the previous hydrological plans have been implemented, so a high percentage of regulatory and water infrastructure works of general interest have not been carried out despite being decisive for mitigating droughts. It must be that water is a sermasculin, without a gender perspective and therefore the EUR 21.3 billion for feminist policies here should not be applied. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Desertification has become a real environmental problem, but consensusprogress does not include it in its climate fanaticism or its green agenda. Our Constitution legally establishes water as a public property in its article 132, the State being the holder of such resources, which ensures that it is used on the basis of rationality and solidity criteria for all Spaniards. However, its arbitrary policies are devoted to territorializing decisions on the use of water in the various autonomous communities and hydrographic confederations, and here, in these policies, the PP and the PSOE, both mounts and mounts so much. Therefore, the distribution of water among all Spaniards is also in the Constitution, or is that principle not included in your concept of solidarity and patriotism? Of course, we already know that the communists share what they don't have. More of the same. However, we shall vote in favour, Minister. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, farmers, farmers, fishermen, hunters, the agri-food industry, regants, agrarian organizations - even your own, those of the PSOE -, the primary sector and, ultimately, the rural world as a whole have gone over it, they have run over it, they point to you and they point to your Government as responsible for the dramatic situation they are experiencing. It is no coincidence that hundreds of thousands of men and women have filled the streets and squares of Madrid in a historic demonstration such as last March 20, with a clear message: We can't do more, do something and respect the rural world. And you, what do you offer? Good words and few good deeds. With this royal decree-law, five days before the great demonstration, you have tried to appease the desperate to the rural world, but you have not succeeded, because you simply do not bring anything new to the rural world. It presents us with a royal decree-law that does not respond to the exceptional situation of the rural world and barely manages to alleviate the effects of the structural situation that the primary sector already has. This royal decree-law of drought is nothing more than the copy of those already made in the past, with a very important difference: the last, in 2017, was brought to Congress in early June, just a few days after the drought was decreed in some of the basins, and you have now waited four and a half months since the Guadalquivir Hydrographic Confederation launched the alarm voice for a drought of the most important in recent decades to make this royal decree and only because it had a historical manifestation at the gates. That is what I call opportunism, and when one is opportunist, he does not act in good faith, but in his own interest, and that is never to be forgiven by the rural world, Mr Planas. [[Applauds]] In addition, he dared to say in article 1 that this royal decree-law serves to recover the profitability of agricultural holdings as a result of the international economic situation. Could you tell me how? Because here there is nothing exceptional for exceptional times. Most of the measures proposed have already been taken in the past for drought situations or exceptional situations due to adverse weather events, such as the reduction of peonadas from thirty-five to twenty, water exemptions, the moratorium on social security payments, the CAP advance, the IBI exemption, ICO loans. You, Minister, have done nothing new, and what you have done, you have copied it regularly. For example, you in Article 4 propose a 20% reduction in the VAT and IRPF modules, but in 2017 the tax reduction was 30% for cereals and legumes, 30% for beef and extensive pig, 50% for potatoes, 50% for wine grapes and even 80% for olive groves, among many others, when the drought situation was not as terrible as it is now. In 2017 there was no war, the hydraulic reserve was 56%, ten percentage points higher than it is now, and tax cuts were made infinitely higher than those you do now. Only the set of measures of the reduction of the modules of the IRPF in 2017 had an impact of 500 million euros, that is, 130 million more than the set of measures that this royal decree-law brings. The main difference is that in 2017 there was a People's Party government and it was a government that worked to defend farmers' interests. [[Applauds]] But, more importantly, and I would like to address the Socialist Group in particular, which will now come with its usual massage of feet to the minister: if they have any credibility left, today they should come up to this rostrum and demand that the minister apply the extraordinary fund to fight the drought that the People's Party left behind in 2017 and set itself at EUR 1 billion. What have they done with the bottom? Have they maintained it, increased it or, as usual in the Socialist Party, simply suppressed it? If they had any leftover composure, today they would demand from the minister the social tariff that the People's Party Government had prepared, which, in Article 10, on the cost of desalinated water, established that the desalinated water cost would never exceed 30 cents. But today the minister says that by paying for desalinated water 47.5 cents farmers are already happy. Ladies and gentlemen, today the primary sector of this country has no reason to find any satisfaction in this royal decree-law. This government has raised hundreds of millions of euros more at the cost of the hydrocarbon tax, billions more at the cost of VAT and income, hundreds of millions more with the electric bill and now wants to plunder the pocket of the regents and all this at the cost of much of the farmers. If you really wanted to make us believe, Mr Minister, that this royal decree of law would remedy the exceptional situation in the primary world motivated by the price crisis, look at what the People's Party is doing, which is nothing more than putting in place the solutions they are asking of us from the rural world. Fertilizers with nitrogen have increased from 300 euros to 900 euros; diesel has multiplied its price and has never been paid so much for a liter of fuel; light has risen especially for irrigation; drought is ruining flowering; herbaceous crops are drying up; extensive livestock farming is mismatching or dying in many cases. You continue to keep double contributions to agricultural workers, small farmers, one as self-employed and one as self-employed. The real decree-law that should be validated today should be what really helps farmers. This government where there is more margin, where it has a spectacular margin - and listen carefully, gentlemen of the left - is in curbing the looting of the sector's pocket in the taxes that you are resisting to lower. We ask you again, lower the tax on hydrocarbons to a minimum, lower the tax on fuels to 4%, lower the VAT on natural gas to lower the price of fertilizers, eliminate the double taxation of small farmers, lower the bill of light for agro-industry and regents, or even simpler, look at what the Andalusian Council has done. [[applause]] Last Tuesday the president of the Board of Andalusia, Juan Manuel Moreno, approved the mobilization of 141 million euros for farmers, winners and fishermen, approved the reduction or exemption of fees, the granting of direct aids to extensive livestock, the exemption of taxes and tariffs in the use of water. Everything within its competence placed at the service of the rural world. And if not, Mr Planas, look at what your European colleagues in the European Union are doing, for example, Poland, which has abolished VAT on gas and petrol, has abolished VAT on basic foods such as bread, fruit, vegetables, meat, oil and milk products, among others. That should be the real decree-law that we should validate today, the massive tax reduction, the help of the strongest in this crisis - which is the government and its record-breaking - in favour of the weakest, that of truly helping farmers. [[applause]] Mr Planas, you are alone, as your Government has left you here today. Do not wonder why hundreds of thousands of farmers, farmers, fishermen, hunters, men and women from the rural world are manifesting themselves. The answer is in its own inaction. React before it's too late. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u27	Thank you, Mr. Requena. For the Socialist Group, Mr Serrano Martínez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have in this House the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2022, as detailed by the Minister, who comes to take measures to alleviate the situation that is leaving us without water in the territory, because thousands of farms in our country are going to suffer this drought. These measures - fiscal, labour and financial measures - come to inject EUR 450 million into the sector: a reduction, as the Minister has explained, of 20% of the IRPF modules; aid for the grant of loans; an increase in the aid for the purchase of agricultural insurance; a postponement of the social security contribution; and a reduction in the number of peonadas for rural workers for access to the subsidy. And let me also admire this measure, Mr Minister, because there are many women in rural areas who have difficulty accessing the agricultural world, having a contract of employment and even having a newspaper, and they need that drop of peonadas in order to be able to access the agricultural subsidy. [[Applauds]] In addition, this week, the President of the Government informed us at this same Congress and the Council of Ministers approved last Tuesday a national package to respond to the economic and social consequences, where EUR 430 million will be allocated to the agricultural and livestock sector. Mr. Requena, how easy it is to come, to criticize, to throw down the work and to bring nothing. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the face of the difficult times that we have been going through in our country, have been in this House for two years and since this forum you have not provided a single measure, I repeat, nor a single measure, Mr Requena. [[Applauds]] You, when real decrees and bills came to power and help the sector, either did not vote for them or rejected them. [[Rumors]] That's what they've done. They did it with the chain law. Now they're making a camper where they want tax breaks. The People's Party wants tax cuts, but it doesn't want decent prices for the sector, because you didn't vote in favour of that chain law; you left all the farmers and farmers in our country behind. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. That's the reality that we're living. Look, the only truth we can say is that never before had a government done so much for agriculture, livestock and fishing in our country and never before... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u30	...and never before had an opposition been so hypocritical and disloyal with our country's agriculture and livestock. [[Applauds]] Never before, never. Farmers in our country need proposals. The farmers in our country need to put their shoulders together. Farmers, when given everything in a pandemic, received a People's Party that gave absolutely nothing, nothing, or a proposal, but not in this House, no, Mr Requena, in this House, no, in the autonomous governments. The autonomous governments of the People's Party have left behind all the farmers and farmers of our country. That's the reality. On many occasions I have repeated this, Mr Requena - and I also say this to your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - from the Socialist Party, a hand stretched out to work, to work, I repeat, to contribute and to build joint proposals for agriculture and livestock in our country. [[laughs]] And now you're here to talk about reserve funds to deal with drought times? Look, the reserve funds left you as the fund reserved for pensions, the same, you left them the same: without a hard one. That is the reality of the People's Party, that is the reality that comes here to tell us, a reality that is not certain, that is not true. Therefore, we continue to reach out to him to work and, of course, to contribute from the seriousness, from the rigour and commitment and from the height of vision that is required in these circumstances. That is why I want to address the Minister. Of course, at exceptional times, exceptional measures, measures to encourage the sector as a whole, measures to be provided and constructed, to alleviate the situation. No matter what the right hand does, Minister, no matter what; here there is a Socialist Parliamentary Group which is conscious and sensitive to the situation in our country's livestock, agriculture and fisheries sector, but rather that this right hand bench is repeatedly using circumstances and circumstances to bring nothing and not bring solutions. That's the reality. You will see when you look back and see that in the most difficult moments you have left the whole of agriculture, livestock and fishing. [[Applauds]] That is why this government is not going to wrinkle, this parliamentary group is not going to wrinkle. There are structural problems that we are going to continue to work with measures and proposals, such as the price crisis, which comes from previous years, and drought problems, which are likely to continue. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you speak of drought while denying us climate change. Clear up, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, clear up. [[Applauds]] Bring a proposal. That's the only reality. That is why, from this parliamentary group, we extend our hand to the whole of this House to work with proposals, with serious and rigorous measures that are needed. And before I finish, Madam President, allow me to address some of the ladies and gentlemen of this House. I am going to address a Member who, yesterday and after forty years, in an unworthy manner, addressed this socialist bench with the argument of 'years of reds, years of hunger and lice'. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr González Coello, were not lice, it was hunger that suffered millions of families in our country. [[protests]] [[Protests]] Please, gentlemen of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u32	They weren't lice, it was hunger we were going through. Many of our families had to leave our country to escape that hunger, many of those families needed to seek with sacrifice and effort to stop something to be thrown into their mouths. And, yes, there was no abundance, as in many of your cradles, ladies, there was no abundance. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u33	Mr. Serrano, you have to finish, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u34	I'm finishing up, Madam President. But there was one thing in abundance in our families, where we came many from the Socialist Party bench, the vast majority: education and shame. [[protests]] [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u35	Thank you, Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u36	Education and shame. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u37	I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is simply a courtesy round, to thank the parliamentary groups for their interventions and to say that the Government will take note of the outcome of the votes. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u39	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u40	We continue with the debate on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the management of vaccines and the vaccination plan in Spain. I would remind you that at the end of this debate there will be a first vote. For the presentation of the opinion, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u41	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting on 11 March 2021, agreed to the creation of the Committee of Inquiry on Vaccine Management and the Vaccination Plan in Spain. The agreement provides for a period of six months, which could be extended, if necessary - and has not been so - by agreement of the plenary of the House. The Commission was set up on 24 June 2021, and the draft work plan was submitted at the meeting on 7 October, which was adopted at the meeting on 21 October. At the meeting on 13 November, the list of participants and the schedule of meetings of the Commission were adopted. At that session, the People's, VOX and Citizens' parliamentary groups announced that they would henceforth not take part in the Commission's work with the main argument of limiting the number of candidates proposed by these formations. On this issue, the Presidency indicated that the procedure used to draw up the lists of candidates was exactly the same as that used in other committees of inquiry held in the same legislature, without this implying a similar position of abandonment by these formations, in addition to indicating the consensus force used in the approved list. It serves as an example of the latter, which had 44% of those who were among those proposed by the Group of the European People's Party. In addition, a short second period was committed to requesting candidates, if this was understood as necessary, mainly from the parliamentary groups with little representation in the first quota, an issue which was adopted at the Bureau meeting on 7 February 2022. A total of nine meetings of the Bureau and thirteen meetings of the Commission were held, with a total of twenty-five participants participating in the meetings. All meetings of the Commission at which attendances have been held, in accordance with rule 64.4 of the rules of procedure of the Congress, have been held with publicity. Let me say that I am not going to go into detail on each and every one of the meetings and appearances held in them, which are, in any case, in the opinion which your honourable Members are aware of. The hearings ended on 28 February and, finally, at the meeting held on 23 March, the Commission adopted the opinion which is put to the vote today at this plenary meeting, and it was further agreed that a time limit should be opened for the presentation of individual votes, which will also be put to the vote at this plenary session. The opinion before the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies today consists of a first part, on the background and creation of the Commission, the constitution of the Commission, Bureau meetings and meetings of the Commission, as well as the report of the appearances requested, agreed and held, and a second part, on the conclusions and recommendations which have emerged from the work of the Commission. A set of conclusions and recommendations that unequivocally recognize the great collective success as a country in the management of vaccines and the Vaccination Plan; a success that has had the fundamental pillar of a citizenship that, in the vast majority, responded to the pandemic situation of our country and, of course, to the arduous and immense work of health professionals in our country. Co-governance, cooperation and coordination among the various administrations have been very positively valued, indicating that further progress should be made on this path, in this model of institutional architecture as a formula to be maintained in the current and future needs of the National Health System. The role of science and R & D+i, the technological advancement and training of our biopharmaceutical industry also have a prominent place in the opinion. But we cannot talk about a document that is complacent with the effort made. The collective success of the vaccination strategy in our country does not prevent the finding of recommendations, of elements of improvement, most of them on the basis of great certainty: that the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic is a global public health problem, which requires a common and supportive approach by all countries of the world and that, therefore, promoting global equitable access to vaccines against COVID-19 is the main way to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on public health and the economy of all countries of the world. Spain's proactive role in grants, grants or applications for temporary exemption is noted. The necessary monitoring and care is indicated for those who may experience adverse reactions from vaccines and the role of Europe is discussed. We are invited to move towards a European Health Union and we are talking about the correctness of joint purchasing, but also about the need for greater transparency in relation to relations with the pharmaceutical industry, contracts or price of medicines. It will then be the statements made by the various spokespersons which detract from the various aspects of the opinion which they consider to be an overview. [[The Lord]] On the part of this Presidency, and in a sincere and sincere manner, I would like to highlight and acknowledge the talent, will and efforts of the parliamentary groups and of each and every member who has participated in the work of this Commission - including advisers - to achieve a high degree of consensus in the drafting of this opinion, an issue which does not exclude the degree of freedom of each group for the presentation of particular votes seeking to highlight or underline specific aspects of the own opinion. In addition, I would like to extend this public recognition to the work done by the Commission's lawyer, for his good work and professionalism, and also to the members of his team. All this has undoubtedly helped to facilitate the work of the Bureau of this Committee, which I believe I can say on behalf of all its members. Ladies and gentlemen, in short - and I conclude - as in Fuenteovejuna, the whole people are being beaten to one. Well, this is the greatness of this process: collective success as a country. The whole town to one. That's all. Kiss. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u42	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The opinion received particular votes from the parliamentary groups. For her defence, I have the floor, first of all, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u43	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Meijón, if you will allow me, I will also start with you, thanking the lawyer of the Committee of Inquiry, who is accompanying us here today, Mr De la Peña, and his entire working party. I would also like to congratulate you, Mr Meijón, on the work you have done all these weeks and months throughout the Committee of Inquiry. They are sometimes difficult and complex work to carry well so that they reach a good port, even if we arrive with divergent or differentiated voting positions. That is why I would also like to share with you the thanks and congratulations to the House's counsel and teams. When we debated here a year ago, in Congress, the creation of this Commission of Inquiry you know that from the Basque Group we intervened showing our scepticism about what might be the result of this Commission of Inquiry and arguing that we considered it unnecessary, that there was nothing to investigate in relation to the vaccination campaign. After all this work and seeing the result, our feeling that the Commission of Inquiry was indeed unnecessary was confirmed. The work that has been done has been more a review or evaluation to improve aspects of the vaccination campaign due to its size. With regard to the Commission's opinion, the Basque Parliamentary Group tabled 23 motions for resolutions, of which three have been incorporated into the text of the opinion. We maintain the remaining proposals and have tabled them as a separate vote, for the purposes of the bulletin. I would like to refer to the three incorporated, because of their importance. The first concerns strengthening vaccination anywhere in the world. Throughout this work we have seen the level of overall budgetary vaccination. It is a matter that must be resolved, but much remains to be done. We'll never be safe until we're all safe everywhere in the world. The initial report proposed to continue with the alCOVAX contributions to ensure that it operates efficiently, but it seemed to us that it was very important that, because of what the participants in the Committee of Inquiry put forward, it should also be considered that, in addition to contributing anywhere in the world with vaccines, it should also contribute to the awareness and training of health personnel, because it was said that in many places there was a lack of such training of health personnel, which is basic to actually succeed. We also called for support with infrastructure and technology transfers, as well as for the provision of the necessary assistance to improve the organization of health networks. Another of our incorporated proposals has been to move forward in a European Health Union. We believe that it is essential to make progress in structuring and articulating a strong institutional architecture in this regard in order to achieve a European Health Union. And the third of our incorporated proposals aims to strengthen external health. It is one of the issues that has also failed throughout campaign management. Therefore, we ask you to strengthen yourself. The rest of the proposals have not been considered, and would divide them into three blocks. Firstly, because the deficit is in the overall vaccination campaign, we proposed that there should be explicit progress on the temporary exemption from vaccine patents. This is something we have been asking for throughout the management of the pandemic, but it has not been incorporated and we think it is very important that the temporary exemption on vaccine patents is expressly included. Also in this area of global vaccination we asked for availability, accessibility and affordability of vaccines worldwide. Because it is said that production has to be increased, but production aims to make vaccination more accessible and more affordable because, if not, why produce more. It seems to us that this hue was important. The second major block of our proposals addresses the issue of co-governance. We have discrepancies in the conception or interpretation of what co-governance is and we wanted to incorporate our approach or vision of what really has to be, because a crisis of this dimension should not be used to refocus some of the health policies. That is why we wanted to ensure that the vaccination campaign, because of the robust health systems of the Autonomous Communities, had been guaranteed, fully developed and accepted by the citizenry. This has been the key to successful vaccination. We also called for progress in a decentralised health cooperation framework to respond to future health crises, but this proposal has not been incorporated either. We also called for the definition of health cooperation objectives in the pandemic, with adecentralised approach. In a third block, from the governance block to the generic one, we asked for two issues that we think are very important. There has been a technical vaccination working group and those who were working there were subject to confidentiality clauses. We asked that these confidentiality clauses should not be applied to them in order to expose to their superiors and health officials in the Autonomous Communities what was really being said within that working group. Finally, we were also proposing - I say it in the remaining 30 seconds - to eliminate aspects which have nothing to do with the health management of the pandemic and which had indeed been included in the report. This Committee on Vaccine Research has to address issues of this pandemic and not other issues, as much as anyone might consider interesting. That is why our vote will be abstaining. Our message is that the vaccination campaign has worked, with improved aspects, that the challenge is, at this time, global vaccination, that the centralization of policies...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u44	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u45	...health is not the solution under any circumstances and it is necessary to make progress in health cooperation at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u46	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alvarez i García has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that everyone agrees that the process of vaccination in the Spanish State has been a success, especially thanks to the professionalism of our health care providers and the will and responsibility of the citizenry when it comes to getting vaccinated for a common good. I think that is important whenever we highlight it, as we have highlighted in the Commission, as well as other groups. This Committee of Inquiry has sought, in part, to give voice to all those in different profiles or areas who would like to tell their vision of the vaccination process and the pandemic in generic terms and also their concrete experiences. However, it is true that the profiles of the participants in this Commission have been very similar and very monotonous, giving more prominence, for example, to pharmaceuticals than to health-care workers or people affected by this pandemic and to their primary or secondary consequences. The few profiles that have given that touch, let us say, of plurality to this Commission were precisely those proposed by parties that are not part of the Government. For example, we had a representative of the AstraZeneca vaccine-affected platform, a representative of Doctors of the World or a representative of Amnesty International. It was at least surprising to us that, as I said earlier, the pharmaceutical companies in this Commission have played a greater role in showing the four winds that the production and distribution of vaccines have not paid off a cent. Man, I don't think people are stupid and that this can't even believe it. And we have seen very little prominence from NGOs, from health personnel, from people affected by the virus or from out-of-range operfil vaccines, which the Government has preferred to leave out. That is why we have missed the commitment made by the Government with the creation of this Commission of Inquiry. On the other hand, the aim of this Commission was for citizenship to be expressed and, of course, the relevant experts, too, to give them the importance they deserve. It has therefore seemed to us indecent that the parties on the right and the far right have literally passed from coming to this Commission. I understand, then, that you people and the health of people care about a curse. Of course, since their lists were not chosen, I get angry and I don't breathe. It's a lack of respect for the citizenry, ladies and gentlemen. As I said, we believe that we all agree that vaccination in the Spanish State has been a success, as I think we agree that vaccination outside the State, especially in low-income countries, has not been successful, either because of lack of vaccines - we have talked quite in this Commission about the inadequacy of the COVAX system, for example - or because of the lack of material or personnel to administer them. In these conclusions, we expected something more from the Government, despite the fact that certain points that we consider important have been taken into account, such as, for example, that of betting against future public health crises by co-government or shared governance, as they wish to call it, between the Ministry of Health, autonomous communities and cities with autonomy status, or that of assessing adverse reactions from vaccination to establish accompanying measures for affected persons, medical and psychological assistance, pharmaceutical services and rehabilitation services. These are important points, among others, of course, and that is why we are voting in favour of this opinion, not without saying that we believe that it could improve further, since the conclusions of this Commission should be those of the people. That is why we believe that this opinion, despite being good, could be better and that is why we have also tabled particular votes. Let us hope that this will to reach agreements between the left parties in this House will not only remain in this opinion, because if we have not seen what is the will of the right and the extreme right, basically to do nothing. I wanted to end with a phrase that has reminded us of Amnesty International: only if we immunize everyone and everyone around the world will we get out of this pandemic. It really is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u48	Good morning. The objective of the Commission of Inquiry was to investigate irregularities, failures and delays in the management of vaccines and the vaccination plan in Spain, and the conclusion reached by most of the respondents that vaccination in Spain has been an achievement. It is necessary to recognize that the Government of Spain has fulfilled the milestones set out in the vaccination strategy of COVID-19. Very high vaccination coverage has been achieved in a very short time. It has been a strategy characterized by security and equality. It is also recognized by the respondents that the high percentage of vaccination is due to our public health system and, of course, to the people who make it possible within it, to our primary care, which is essential to strengthen it, let us not forget, in order to face the challenges of the future and, of course, to the confidence of citizens in their public health. [[applause]] It has been concluded that the COVID-19 pandemic requires a common approach, solidarity on the part of all countries of the world. It is the duty of Governments to promote equitable access to vaccines for all, because it is the only way to solve the problem, both for rich and poor countries. Unequal access to vaccines puts global health at risk, in addition to being unfair, although we must be honest and not say that if we do not save everyone, because it is not true: rich countries can be saved while poor countries die. [[Applauds]] For this reason, some experts who appeared in the Commission proposed to modify the public-private collaboration mechanisms between the European Commission and the pharmaceutical industries and, of course, between the Spanish Government and the pharmaceutical industry, in order to achieve full transparency of the drug production processes and to know the real cost of producing them, as is required when there is any public investment. When public money is invested, the process must be transparent, because the law says so. The reality is that the money with which Farmaindustria investigates is public, that much of the basic research that they use is public, but intellectual property, patents, have it by companies and it is they that set the prices of the market, which produces abusive business profits. We are going to vote in favour of the opinion because we believe that it is a consensus document with which we fully agree, but we have a particular vote that takes concrete form in the following points, which reflect what some of the speakers have brought. First point. The vaccination strategy in Spain has enabled the whole target population to be vaccinated, but even the number of doses acquired by the European Union and Spain has been above the real needs of the population. We have enough vaccines to have vaccinated the entire population three times, but poor countries cannot access a single dose. The causes of the world's lack of vaccination, as has become clear in the Commission, are several. Firstly, the lack of cooperation between pharmaceutical companies, which have benefited from European aid for the production and production of vaccines for the rest of the world. Secondly, the principle of solidarity is not sufficient for overall vaccination. Thirdly, the difficulties in many less developed countries in implementing a vaccination campaign of this complexity, both due to logistical and demand-related problems. For this reason, pharmaceutical policies have been recommended in the Spanish State to include changes in the current regulation to set prices and finance and to promote a legislative reform aimed at the science-based, shared and non-exclusive, towards a model in which intellectual property does not pose a barrier to access the treatments that are being developed, because that is the patent system, a barrier that prevents the world's poor from being cured. Second point. Public-private collaboration should be geared towards making public investment conditional on a policy of regulating the prices of vaccines and other medicines, which is based on production costs plus research costs plus reasonable benefits for companies, while maintaining the current patent system. [[Applauds]] The enormous benefits of the pharmaceutical industry from abusive prices jeopardize our National Health System. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u49	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Group in Congress, Mr. Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this has never been a committee of inquiry. Moreover, there has not been a single commission of inquiry into the pandemic in Spain. What you bring here is a pantomime, a parody of what a committee of inquiry implies in a democratic system. Ladies and gentlemen, a committee of inquiry demands that it investigate, open itself to the views, testimonies and experiences of a wide range of witnesses and open up the possibility of hearing representatives proposed by the opposition in a weighted manner to the political representation they exercise in respect of their representatives. That is an indispensable condition for a necessary and even definitive commission of inquiry, and this has happened since the beginning of democracy until this parliamentary term. But you decided to veto the appearances of the People's Parliamentary Group and the other parties that are not part of the groups that support the Government. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, no opposition representatives have been accepted. To steal any intervention that was not a praise to the Government, they used in this legislature twice the voting of complete lists, and up to two came to propose the People's Parliamentary Group and were rejected in its entirety, instead of making a balanced, inclusive, open, participatory and representative composition of the participants to avoid an absolutely useless commission, which has investigated nothing, a mono-color, sectarian and elusive commission of the errors and responsibilities of the Government, which unfortunately caused a huge blow to Spanish society. They only allowed those who came to applaud the Government, without one disagreement or one opinion against it. It is a real insult to the intelligence of Spanish citizens, who deserve to know the truth. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is no opinion to be debated, because this has not been a committee of inquiry, it has been a committee led, short, stealthily and inoperative, with interventions by friends of the government and a couple of directors-general of public health, not of the PSOE, in order to be able to attack them at ease. The seriousness of this fact lies in the fact that there has not been a single audit in Spain, a single evaluation commission or an analysis of any of the elements that have leaked into this pandemic, as has happened in all the countries in our environment. And not only did they prevent the creation of audit experts, they blocked the creation of parliamentary evaluation committees, or the government president's commitment to create a joint Congress-Senary committee to analyse what has happened or to set up a committee to follow up on the agreements of the Reconstruction Commission, but they have subverted - and this is the most serious of all - the figure of the parliamentary commission of inquiry in our country. They have created a background where a majority can prevent the rest of the groups from hearing testimonies different from those chosen by the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, all they had to do was give us a sheet of questions that we could ask the audience on the sidelines. We could not take part in this farce, in this huddle, which is very serious from a parliamentary and democratic point of view, a blow to the democratic quality of our country. That is why this Commission was born absolutely delegitimized, a gesture more of the autocracy and cesarism of this president and his party. All Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen, know that if vaccination had not been carried out by the autonomous communities and their professionals and had depended on this Government of Spain, it would have been as disastrous as the management of masks, PPE or purchases, that the pandemic law and that the Public Health Agency and there had been opacity in the number of dead, no commissions of constitutional ear experts. Ladies and gentlemen, this Committee of Inquiry would only have made sense if, two years later, it had been useful for the future, if it had served to really identify errors, to establish a protocol for the future in order to avoid shortcomings and improvisations in similar future situations and to make Spanish society ready for new pandemics. It would also have served to rectify in real time, at each minute, the deficiencies detected during the process. But you, ladies and gentlemen, took care to have it frozen for a year and, to the height of irresponsibility, one of the attendees you called gave a pitiful, stuttering spectacle with false assertions. Ladies and gentlemen, you did not want to hear or learn or solve mistakes. They have not had the political and ethical will to know the truth. While other countries have sought truth and light, here we are still in the dark. Your opinion today is the result of all that, a part opinion, a hairdo, a caricature and a mockery of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, in view of this shameful and undemocratic attitude, do not count on us. No one who respects democracy, no one who respects political pluralism and parliamentary uses, but, above all, who respects the more than 120 000 people who have died and the millions affected, can take part in this buffooning and be complicit or complicit in this purpose. [[Applauds]] In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, the government and its crutches, unlike any country in our environment, do not want to know or want citizens to know anything, absolutely nothing, about everything that has happened during these two years. But, ladies and gentlemen, do not doubt that this moment will come and that this malicious obscurantism will have to account absolutely for everything and assume, sooner rather than later, all the responsibilities before Spanish society. Many ladies and gentlemen, thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u51	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet so that the speaker can begin, please. [[Pause.-Continue the rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u52	Thank you very much. President, ladies and gentlemen, one on. The first thing I would like to thank is those who have appeared and the rest of the people who have worked in the Commission for the effort made, because we have to bear in mind that it was a review of a giant vaccination process, with many variables, with many issues. We had an assignment, as you have already mentioned, to investigate possible irregularities and to investigate the situations that have led to the lack of transparency in relation to contracts and the entire process of purchasing, purchasing and distributing vaccines. Our group wants to record here today a very serious problem which has been detected and which is related to the lack of transparency in purchasing contracts, bearing in mind that the lack of transparency has been a problem arising from abusive clauses regarding the ability to control prices and costs in the production of vaccines. As yet we do not officially know in the Commission the actual prices of production and purchase of vacuanas. It has been completely impossible for this Commission to get to know them. I have to highlight the success and great achievement of applied science and public health, which have made it possible, in a record time, to design, produce and apply vaccines. It has been a historical milestone in biomedical science, but also a historical finding of the redistributive limitations of the international political and economic system. State and European agencies have functioned under the direction of the European Commission. A European vaccine strategy has been made which has been a success in getting enough vaccines, but at the cost of what? At the cost of global inequitable access to vaccines and of feeding unfair prices in the payment for vaccines. This has meant unprecedented gains for the major multinational companies involved. Two fully interrelated elements. Participation in the European strategy for the purchase of vaccines has been carried out through a steering committee and its negotiating team, and decisions on the prices of decision-making bodies have been subject to secrecy. And since meetings and their documents are subject to confidentiality, this Commission has not had access to such prices and pricing processes. Therefore, this Commission has not been able to investigate the quantification of the benefits that these pharmaceutical companies have had. It is the most turbulent side of this historical milestone of vaccination, secret contracts, and this data remains confidential. The pricing has been an obscurantist mechanism, pure commercial bidding: either you take it or you leave it. There has been no transparent mechanism with mixed participation of pharmaceutical companies, governments and scientific committees of researchers for the calculation, setting and pricing, a mechanism that should have developed under a shared risk model; shared risks, yes, but with fair benefits also shared. An analysis by People's Vaccine Alliance indicates that Pfizer and Moderna companies are charging governments up to forty-one billion dollars over the estimated cost of production, benefits that are being taken over by a few pharmaceutical companies. Knowing this reality and proposing concrete mechanisms not to be repeated in the future was one of the basic objectives of this Commission. We have not been able to achieve that objective, going beyond mere declarations of intent. Despite the efforts made, this Commission has not been able to achieve this objective. First-necessity goods, such as vaccines, cannot be the subject of secrecy, and we already knew that before the Commission. WHO continues to insist on the need for intellectual property and patent liberalization, and we already knew that. It is painful to think that a large part of these economic benefits seized by these pharmaceuticals will strengthen the redistributive limitations of the international political and economic system in the future. It is essential to incorporate transparency into future buying and production processes, ladies and gentlemen, it is an essential element for the future. That is why our vote is going to be abstaining from this opinion, because we have not fulfilled the task entrusted to us by this House. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. Cheers. Osasuna. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u54	Good morning. Thank you, President. I am going to explain in a very simple way and I think it illustrates what has happened in the Committee on Research on Vaccines. Imagine they're ordering a police inspector to steal some very valuable diamonds from a jewelry store. After several months of investigation, the inspector returns and presents his findings. And they say to him, 'Tell us, Inspector, who stole the diamonds, how and where are they?' And the inspector replies: 'The diamonds are pure carbon; in fact, they are the most stable form of carbon that exists and form a crystalline structure...' They say: 'No, no, Inspector, who stole the diamonds'. Answer: 'Well, I tell you that diamonds have a very high hardness and a huge thermal conductivity. Beautiful diamonds are carved in this jewelry store. Look, I'll show you the catalog. Here you have very nice necklaces and bracelets and at good price. Therefore, the result of my research on the theft of diamonds is the following: Congratulations to the jewelry store for the great work done, issue decorations to security officials and advise the purchase of jewelry, as well as highlight what good and what good works are done on diamonds here'. [[Applauds]] They say, "But, hey, what about the robbery?" And the inspector says, 'What robbery?' 'Well, the theft of diamonds,' they answer. Inspector: 'Did I tell you how well you eat here?' This has been the research on vaccine management, because I tell you what you brought here honestly that day - you will explain to me later what you have done - the Plural and Mixed Group. I quote what was the research proposal - I open quotes -: 'Researching irregularities, failures and delays in the management of vaccines'. They especially highlighted - I open quotes again -: 'Investigating the existence of a structure of influence traffic that has enabled irregular vaccination practices, including that of high officials and public officials in Spanish territory, as well as the absence or failures of control mechanisms' - I close the quotes -. That is what was voted here with the speakers from the Plural and Mixed Group in this rostrum. That day they picked up positive headlines: They ask to investigate the people who have put themselves in the vaccines. But, once the committee of inquiry was opened, taking advantage of the fact that many of the meetings are closed, it was agreed to say that nothing of that, that here we are going to tell ourselves how well we have done. And we're faced with the refusal to investigate the people who had broken into it. I know you've played with the fact of the time factor, which makes anything seem less serious over the months. It has been a long time since the thousand daily deaths and when the first people who had to vaccinate those who were most at risk. We have already forgotten that very few vaccines were coming and many people were dying. Look, the elderly, the immunosuppressed, the people who could most likely die if they took COVID-19 were the first people to get vaccinated, but there were some who joined that vulnerable group, called themselves vulnerable, specifically the politicians of a vast majority of political parties that make up this House. In Citizens we tried to call this Commission of Inquiry on all those politicians who had come to tell us how they had done it: they did not admit us any, none. And there was the PP agreed; then they sat down for other things, but the PP agreed that this should not be done because they said they had already had enough public reprobation. I mean, the shame that it must take to get you into vaccination when people who ran into danger were wanting to get vaccinated is to be told, 'Oh, my God!' That is, if he sinks from the Titanic and arrives a group of politicians and pulls the women and children out of the lifeboats and pushes them up, when they arrive on land, the penalty awaits them is to say: 'How bad are you, you have been very bad, come, go home for a while!' The PSOE replied that, with the great management that they had done, with the good that everything had been done, who was interested in having been thrown politicians. The penalty is that more than seven hundred people, who are the ones who collided between politicians, trade unionists, high-ranking officials, political partners, trade unionists, high-ranking officials, politicians' families, trade unionists, high-ranking officials, took advantage of their situation in order, in a situation of national emergency, to put themselves ahead and save themselves before the weakest. It's too bad they're playing with the times. Two thirds of the politicians who were vaccinated remain in their posts. I'm only partially comforted by two things. One is that no Citizens, no Citizens got into vaccination. In those governments that depended on Citizens at that time, that is, Murcia, Madrid, Andalusia and Castillay León, they had to resign those who stuck in the queue of the vaccination. [[Applauds]] The second thing that comforts me, even though they have been freed from the fact that the law did not have positive effect on this conduct because the law did not foresee so much misery and have been freed from being investigated by this Commission of Inquiry, is the shame that will remain for the rest of their lives in all their surroundings, because everyone will know that they belong to that kind of opportunistic coward who does not care more than himself. And it's this species you've protected here today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. If anything revealed the pandemic of the COVID-19 was the inability of the capitalist system to effectively manage, social criteria and global vision an emergency like this, since even in an extreme and dramatic situation the interests of the major Western powers and their major pharmaceutical companies prevailed over the general interest of the whole of humanity. The opinion, on the whole, goes beyond an enthusiasm that we do not share on the management that the Spanish State and the European Union have made of the investigation, manufacture, purchase and distribution of vaccines, and, as has already been said, has not made it possible to clarify essential issues, such as price-fixing mechanisms or possible irregularities or failures throughout the vaccination process. But, in any case, he could not help but point out obvious issues, such as the need to attack a global epidemic, which was also global, and the extreme difficulties of many countries in accessing vaccines and being able to articulate an effective vaccination process. The recommendations talk, for example, of encouraging the European Union to support the proposal for a temporary exemption on certain obligations of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. It would be a small step forward, but can you really not even in this context and with the accumulated experience recommend defending the release of patents from vaccines against COVID? First the benefits of big companies go and then, much later, it seems that human lives go. It's absolutely indecent. Of course, it should be remembered that in the TRIPS Council of November 2020 the Spanish Government already voted against India and South Africa's proposal on the suspension of patents for all technologies against COVID-19 during the pandemic, when that was a premise for being able to act globally and save lives. Interestingly, the opinion says that patent release would not be a sufficient measure to ensure equitable access by countries to vaccines, because it would also be necessary to act on technology transfer, on a solidarity supply chain and on the support of health systems. All right, but the question is when, because it is clear that the COVAX mechanism was not enough and that the participation of European countries was far from real collaboration from the principle of solidarity with countries that could not access vaccines to ensure mass and rapid vaccination of the entire world population. The pandemic also highlighted issues such as the need for public pharmaceuticals to strengthen the capacity of countries to act, and not to be at the expense of the interests of multinational pharmaceuticals. In any case, we will support the transactional, even if we do not agree with all its elements, the particular votes of the PNV or the Republican Left and the United Nations We can, because, although it is still quite generic, points in the right direction, and we will abstain in the opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u58	Thank you very much, President. 'We advise you that the notification of your cessation, dated March 31, 2022, is available': Text of the SMS received this week by 6,000 health professionals from the Community of Madrid, governed by the People's Party and supported by VOX. Otranoticia: 'Ortega Cano has just been registered as a member of the Centre for Taurino Affairs', Comunidad de Madrid, governed by the PP and supported by VOX. By the way, Guillermo, the infants were also vaccinated illegally; the infants were also vaccinated illegally. I'm just saying in case you've forgotten. [[Applauds]] This Commission, despite all its regret, has been positive, despite the initial controversies, despite the theatrical withdrawal of some formations, which could have been avoided if the Presidency and the Bureau had had the waist they had had at the end - and I say this honestly - if many of them had been accepted and not so afraid that certain people would have appeared in the Commission. They would probably have enriched the Commission and we would probably have saved ourselves the appearance of so many pharmaceutical companies, which in the end ended up saying that they were poor girls who had won almost nothing with this pandemic, when we are all very clear that they were fed. So, despite everything, I believe that this Commission has been positive, albeit insufficient at some point. It has been heard that they have provided very interesting points of view and have enriched this opinion in a remarkable, albeit insistent way - with major shortcomings. Conclusions that must be noted, some on the proposal of Compromís, and that I think they are very important, and that is why we started with that SMS: first, we must support our health systems, the importance that our primary health systems have had when Spain succeeded in vaccination - without them we would not have achieved the vaccination rates that we have had, and that is why this news of the 6,000 health systems that are going to the streets today is so important -; secondly, we must ensure equitable and universal access, and intellectual property cannot be a brake on equitable and universal access, we must support our health systems, but also - and this is a global problem - the health systems of developing countries with vaccines, with materials, with devices and also with technical advice, and, lastly, irrebatible evidence, and it is that vaccines save lives: the more vaccines, the less mortality and the less hospitalizations. That is why it is so important for public people to set an example, and not for some to hide saying that no one is interested in whether or not they have been vaccinated. Public support for science is absolutely essential. And I'm done. I believe, sincerely, that it has been worth it, I think it has been insufficient and I think that sometimes courage makes it possible for us to move further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jara Moreno has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that the aim of this Commission was to investigate vaccination in Spain, not in Europe or in the rest of the world. [[Applauds]] In addition, it had stated objectives from the outset, which consisted of analysing, among other issues, whether high-ranking vaccination groups had been jumped, of which it is not astonishment here, as well as the rest of the objectives. A year ago VOX told them that it was not the time to start an investigation, when the Spaniards were still in the middle of the pandemic and we had to deal with more practical things for the citizen, such as mitigating the queues of hunger, raising small businesses that the illegal closure imposed by the government had ruined and caring for and empowering our health professionals. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] At the time, it was not that VOX thought that investigating the entire management of the vaccine was not necessary, on the contrary, but we thought that an investigation by this government was a waste of time because we were not going to know anything and it would only serve for the politicians who govern us to throw flowers at each other, as it has been. I will explain to the Members who have not been in the Commission and to the Spaniards who listen to me that we have not participated in the Commission because they imposed on us the list of assistants in an undemocratic way, without respecting our share of participation and refusing to quote any of the representatives proposed by VOX. [[Applauds]] We had no choice but to stop wavering to the Socialcommunist Left and the nationalists, and we stopped being part of this drama that was the Commission. After the time of appearance, twenty-five participants in total and all of similar opinions since for this reason they had been chosen, the time came for conclusions and pantomimes of recommendations. The conclusions set out in the opinion have given us reason. The speech seems to be made by the minister's cabinet. Reading it gives the impression of being in front of the ministry's vaccination strategy. [[Applauds]] The basic text on which he has worked is that of the PSOE, and on this text the rest of the groups made their amendments. United We can make an attack on private property: price intervention and blaming the pharmaceutical industry. The PNV proposed to delete all references to co-governance and to try to delete everything that was Spanish in character. They prefer the context of the European Union of Health, while the Spaniards spend their lives being cared for by other communities or getting an appointment of specialties. [[Applauds]] Compromís brought an allegory to the NGO Doctors of the World in order to attack the pharmaceutical industry and promote the vaccination system in the countries where they have representation, forgetting the rest of the world. The Republican Parliamentary Group, in a love for work that covers half a leaf, spoke of something important, such as the side effects of vaccines, but lomezclaved with other points and questioned that the first vaccination groups had to be chronically ill. [[applause]] From the whole period of amendments came the final text of the Commission's opinion, which varied little from the original, except in some small reference here and there to what was amended to satisfy the partners of government. However, there are different points to highlight from what we are talking about and I insist that in no way meets the objectives of the convention in its constitution. First, they claim that the actual cost of vaccines is unknown. How do you understand this? Don't you know how much they've paid or how much they owe for the vaccines they've bought? What contracts have you signed? Have you signed a blank cheque to the European Union without asking for explanations? Why this obscurantism? Is this going to be the case for all centralised purchases with the European Union? Ladies and gentlemen, when paid with public money, there can be no confidentiality clauses, explanations must be given. We demand transparency. [[Applauds]] Another issue to be noted is that at this point any citizen knows that Spain is participating in solidarity vaccination and in the transfer of knowledge. However, the opinion does not provide any information about how much money you are giving to other countries for this purpose, when in Spain you are not taking care of the entrepreneurs you have ruined with the closure of your businesses. We would like to know how much money you are giving to other countries and how much you are devoting to the recovery of the Spaniards, because, after all, it is our money that you waste. [[Applauds]] In addition, in the case of knowledge transfer, it is insulting that the Spanish benefit from the diagnostic test given to C-TAPno. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, you have not met any of the objectives. No irregularities, delays or vaccination failures have been found. What a coincidence! Nothing is said that the delay in buying vaccines ruined our country's health and tourism. Nothing is said about the lack of concreteness about the responsibilities that can be generated by the adverse effect of vaccines. The Government and the European Union are obliged to declare the degree of responsibility of governments and the industry for the adverse effects. Nothing is said about the reason why doctors are not allowed to prescribe vaccines. Nothing is said about why the vaccine data sheet was skipped to start a heterologous vaccination. It should also be noted that the Spanish Government has not given a cent for the development of the vaccines received by the Spanish, neither a euro to Pfizer nor a euro to Moderna nor to AstraZeneca, but what the parties of the left and separatists are considering is to give money to the cannabis manufacturers flagged by Podemos and his travelling companion, in this case, the PNV. [[Applauds]] Finally, they congratulate themselves on the vaccination. I will tell you in this regard that making the possibility of vaccination available to the citizens is only their obligation, and it is thanks to the citizenship of the Spaniards that the scope of vaccination in Spain, because they have come to be vaccinated and protected in a massive way, demonstrating common sense, trust in the science and maturity that we have as a society. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Jara. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, two years of the alarm decree have been completed as a result of the worst pandemic of the last century, two years in which the People's Party and VOX have added the virus of political crisp and continue to use the pandemic to oppose the government. We have the worst opposition at the worst time, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] Mrs Jara, despite our marked political differences, I had it for you rigorously. Of twenty-five respondents, two coincide with those proposed by VOX, it is 8%. I don't know if you've read the CombivacS study. Mr. Echaniz, for parodies yours and those who bring us your party all these weeks. In politics elegance is very necessary, and those who don't know what fair play is don't know what elegance is. And you, of course, as you do not know fair play, Mr Echaniz, lack political elegance. [[Applauds]] We've immunized an entire country in front of the COVID. We were the first country in the European Union to immunize 100 per cent of those over eighty years of age, and today there are more than 40 million people with a complete pattern. Ladies and gentlemen, the intensive research carried out by the scientific community, public funding for research, the initiative and investment of pharmaceutical companies and the collaboration between the State and international bodies has enabled us to have vaccines in record time, providing an early response to the pandemic situation. A process of vaccination which is a collective success, concludes the opinion. The good results achieved are related to the strength of the National Health System, of the autonomous health services and of the commitment and responsibility of the citizenry and, of course, of co-governance. It has been a vaccination process by which the Director of WHO for Europe congratulated Spain and set it as an example for all. For this reason, today I want to stop for a moment and congratulate the organizations, entities and individuals for their joint effort in the vaccination campaign, which has placed our country as a reference at the international level, and to which the Government of Spain has given them distinctions for this reason, as well as I want to congratulate the medical, nursing and pharmacy professionals for the granting of the Great Cross of the Cross of the Civil Order on a proposal from the Ministry of Health. Having effective and safe vaccines has been critical to reducing the impact of the pandemic. With leadership and determination, Spain, with President Sánchez at the head, and within the framework of the European Commission, signed purchase agreements that allowed us to have sufficient vaccines. In Spain, through the National Public Health System, we have access to safe, free, equitable and non-discriminatory vaccines, which have decreased the severity and lethality of the disease. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u64	Despite this, no one will be safe until we are all safe because, from the beginning of the pandemic, the Government of Spain has understood that only by acting in a global and coordinated way can we defeat COVID. Spain has already donated more than 60 million solidary vaccines through the COVAX and other bilateral mechanisms, and the challenge now is to meet the target of 70% of the vaccinated population in 2022. Vaccine donation mechanisms have been unstoppable, but we know that they are not enough to meet WHO objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are submitting to this House for approval the opinion resulting from the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Vaccine Management and the Vaccination Plan in Spain, for which I ask you to vote in favour; the Commission whose objective has been to investigate and analyse the management of vaccines and the Vaccination Plan in Spain. The problems and difficulties encountered in the vaccination process and the implementation by the competent public administrations of the vaccination strategy, as well as the centralised purchase of vaccines under the European Vaccine Strategy, as well as the role of the State in financing the development of vaccines and the signing of production agreements with pharmaceutical companies, have been examined. We have had discussions, twenty-five representatives have taken part, we have received documentation, accepted amendments and reached compromises to reach a common text with a desirable consensus, which has helped to improve the final document, but the People's Party, VOX and Citizens, refused to participate - you, Mr Díaz, refused to participate in the Vaccination Research Committee - and they did not do their homework well. Once again, and as usual, they do not hold their shoulders and abandon their responsibilities as deputies and deputies to Spanish society. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u65	Mrs. Prieto, wait a moment, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u66	You can disguise your position on this Commission as you wish, you can send a message and the opposite, but the reality is that, as in all matters related to the pandemic, your only interest was to harass the Government and, as with the vaccination process you have not been able to, you remain on the political agenda. But, ladies and gentlemen, no one here has prevented anything. You made proposals for appearances up to twice, but you did not have enough votes to get them approved. They know, moreover, that of their proposals, eleven coincide with the list of twenty-five participants and that this closed list system has been used in other committees. Why, then, has it not been problematic in these contexts, and in this Commission it has? The point, I say to you, is that they do not like the legitimate majority that is reached in this Parliament, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is very serious, because the reality is that they were in no way prepared to reach any kind of agreement. The opinion recognises that COVID vaccines meet the required parameters of quality, safety and efficacy. At times when a potential for serious risk to people has been identified, extraordinary precautions have been taken. Among the recommendations, it is also stressed that the Government must continue its commitment to equitable vaccination at the global level and calls for greater transparency in vaccine purchase agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions support the vaccination strategy, and the result of all that has been learned has been the elaboration of these joint conclusions and recommendations, which highlight what has been done and which will enable all areas to be improved, as well as better prepared for future public health crises. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, ladies and gentlemen of the right, to respond unitedly and leaving behind bitterness and sectarianism, the utmost strength, also in the fight against the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Prieto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, in five minutes we shall vote on the particular votes cast on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the voting. We shall proceed to vote on the opinions of committees of inquiry. Opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on Vaccine Management and the Spanish Vaccination Plan. Private votes. Private vote No 2 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 35; against, 287 plus 12 telematics votes, 299; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u69	The individual vote is therefore rejected. Particular vote No 4 by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 62 plus 6 telematics votes, 68; against, 262 plus 6 telematics votes, 268; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u70	The individual vote is therefore rejected. Particular vote No 6 by the Republican Parliamentary Group, in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Republican parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; 179 plus 6 telematics votes, 185; 145 plus 6 telematics votes, 151; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u71	The individual vote was therefore adopted. Rest of the particular votes of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 30; against, 288 plus 12 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u72	The particular votes are therefore rejected. Particular vote number 1 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 51 plus 6 telematics votes, 57; against, 273 plus 6 telematics votes, 279; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u73	The individual vote is therefore rejected. Particular vote number 3 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; 138 plus 4 telematics votes, 142; 187 plus 8 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u74	The individual vote is therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, from now on, until twelve and forty-five minutes today, the non-law proposals and motions, the royal decree-law, the opinion of the committee of inquiry, the amendments of the Senate and the opinion on the general account of the State, together with its resolution, will be able to be voted on by telematical means.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u75	We continue with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the Waste and Contaminated Soil Bill for a Circular Economy. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. If you want to leave the Chamber, please do so quickly and quietly.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u76	Thank you, President. Today the Law on Contaminated Wastes and Soils for a Circular Economy returns from the Senate, with the incorporation of a series of amendments that we understand will generally improve the text. I would just like to emphasise the inclusion of the Basque Group and which have been endorsed by the rest of the Senate groups and for which I will also be calling for their support today. One of them will oblige companies that produce toilet wipes to meet the requirements imposed by the UNE standards, if they want to label them as biodegradable and likely to be discarded by the toilet. Such labelling is necessary so that consumers have sufficient information and we can avoid all these jams in the sewers, which are giving so many problems to the municipalities and whose cost is excessive. There is also the reservation of a percentage of contracts for insertion companies and special employment centres, of social initiative for the treatment of textile waste, furniture... A commitment is therefore made to pursue simultaneously a dual objective: social integration and the circular economy from integration companies and special employment centres, as well as that the evaluation of the objectives for the implementation of a system of deposit, return and return of packaging is carried out in accordance with a single methodology established by Europe. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u78	I would also like to make an assessment of an amendment for the recovery and correct application of the hydraulic canon, which was introduced during the People's Party legislature and which had to be adapted, because its incorrect application in 2021 resulted in a series of fines and caused a few million to be returned to electricity. This canon is a very detailed regulation of Article 112 of the Waters Act, but we find ourselves with a paradox, and it is that the decree that was adopted yesterday by the Council of Ministers, by chance, reflects in its final provision twentieth the amendment of Article 8 concerning this canon that today is intended to be adopted here in the Waste Law, and in which I believe there is a misadjustment. While yesterday's decree, for example, contains a bonus for hydraulic installations of 50 megawatts or less, 90%, the waste law provides for a 92 % bonus for those same installations, so if it is approved today it would amend yesterday's decree in that part, unless the government has been foresight in the face of a possible rejection by this House of this amendment. In short, today we are voting on a Law on Waste and Contaminated Soils for the Circular Economy necessary to meet the new waste targets and also the single-use plastic directive. A law that is also part of the structural reforms of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, with the aim of promoting a model of production and also of consumption, where the value of products, materials and even resources have to be kept in the economy as long as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today comes back after passing through the Senate the Law on Contaminated Waste and Soils for a Circular Economy. After the full process in the Senate, we remain concerned that the political debate, when environmental and sustainability issues are discussed, does not revolve around how to achieve these objectives, on what are the best tools and ways with their nuances, but that parties on both sides of the political spectrum embark on an artifice battle, even fetishist, where everyone has decided ex ante what regulatory toy they want to impose. It is important not to fall into a marketing operation, because it is not worth putting ambitious goals that in practice can not be achieved afterwards. But it is also not possible to fall into a race to see who puts the highest goal, without marking a clear and concise path to achieve the goal set. Paradigmatic here has been the topic, for example, of deposit, return and return systems. For some it had to be implemented yes or yes, because it had decided that it was the most efficient, and for others SDDR was anathema in a spectacular reflection equally devoid of real reasons. Pure positioning and replenishment. Seeing how the debate began, we must recognize that the final outcome has been based on reasons and puts an approach where it should be, conditioning objectives rather than means. We would have liked, however, that this that was achieved with SDDR would have been transferred to the whole of the law. All public policies should be based on the achievement of objectives, scientific evidence and technical capacity. Environmental sustainability is a global problem and therefore requires global solutions. In the case of this law that they bring us, this leads us to make two considerations. It would be unacceptable to outsource problems; for example, to ban a specific technique or produce a particular product if we then allow it to be imported from abroad. We would be destroying jobs in Spain to create it outside, losing the power to compete in this sector. There is also a need for internal coordination between Spain and the rest of the European Union, on the one hand, and within Spain and the autonomous communities, on the other. The competition regime for the environment is very complex and overlaps the activities of several administrations at the same time, without calling into question the competence of each one. Every effort must be made to achieve such coordination and also to ensure the effectiveness of policies. The law cannot imply a jibarisation of the Spanish market in waste management. The creation of economies of scale plays an important role in achieving the greatest possible efficiency and objectives. Breaking the market unit in Spain, in addition to being counterproductive in building a circular economy, could make Spanish companies at a disadvantage with European companies. We therefore put an amendment on the table to resolve this problem, but it was not possible for it to be adopted. The circular economy, which includes better and more efficient waste management that we generate, is inseparable from innovation, scientific progress and technical progress in industrial processes. Innovation is always a challenge, but it can be even greater in the case of waste. The leading industrial process can be made technically feasible, but due to its small dimensions it is economically inviolable. And we return to the same concept: to be able to invest in new technologies, in other new processes, we need that market unit to allow us to invest in those technologies and thus to achieve greater benefits and exploitation for companies that want to devote themselves to the waste sector. It would hardly be useful for a company to develop an avant-garde process, for example, in La Rioja, if it then has no way of exporting it to the remains of the autonomous communities and thus benefit from this new technology that is an opportunity within the sector. There are two amendments that we wanted to highlight from the amendments adopted in the Senate. These are two Citizens' amendments, which we again tabled in the Senate, to Article 13, so that the minutes of the coordination committee on waste are public. From Citizens we have always argued that transparency is fundamental to better regulation, to give credibility to action in the field of public administrations and to give more security and certainty to businesses and citizens. The second is an amendment to Article 27 to clarify the regulation of the burning of plant waste. On the other hand, we did want to point out that there is an amendment with which we do not fully agree, which amends the Waters Act for the recovery of the hydroelectric cannon. Regardless of the concrete content of the provision introduced and whether or not the regulation of the canon is appropriate, this is no way to do things. An amendment to forced marches in the Senate in a law that has nothing to do with it really impoverishes the parliamentary debate on the waste law, something that we are unfortunately already accustomed to and that this government does on too many occasions. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u82	Thank you, Madam President. The waste law is back. The BNG already in its day made a not very positive assessment of this text, to the extent that we consider that it was really a missed opportunity to make progress in this area. We believe that the law is far behind expectations, especially that zero residue target, and we therefore regret that there is no higher level of vision, more ambition in proposing a law that would really serve to transform policies and even behaviour in relation to waste generation and management. It now passes through the Senate with some amendments that do not seem to affect the fundamental, precisely those elements that we missed. But among them there is one that draws our attention, like the canon to the hydroelectrics. We understand that this is also intended to be sold as a tax on electricity, but we do not see it that way. There is already a production tax on electric wings, but what happens is that companies then transfer it to consumers through the price of megawattage/hour. That is why we always insist that this should be banned directly. But, in any case, if you want to engrave the electrics, what is to do is to tax the profits, and not with a fee or with a production tax that, as I say, will subsequently be passed on. Therefore, on this we are going to pronounce against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u83	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u84	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have passed the last stage of a law which is urgent and which, despite this, comes at least a decade late, and I now take the opportunity to greet the collectives and associations that are with us today and that have been fighting for a change, for a transformation in waste policies. This is the transposition of two directives, waste and plastics of one use, but, beyond the transposition, which is required, there are key elements in this debate: prevention, reuse, closeness and transparency. These are the key elements of a good waste policy. With the current management model, the reduction targets have not been met and could not be met, thereby contributing to the fight against climate change. In addition, this model has put in serious difficulties permanently the municipalities responsible for waste management, with too many tons in landfills and too many collapsed landfills. The law marks a path, timid in our judgment, but that applied rigorously, with ambition and determination is worth initiating the transformation of a model, which is urgent, including the deposit and return system, which is strategic for reduction, as reduction is strategic for model change. But, careful, you can't put interest groups to control the process, producers. In other words, the data to control the achievement of the objectives in this process must be transparent and public, known, that is the only way we will be able to ensure that the model is opened according to the fulfilment of the objectives, but that it has to be guaranteed from the standpoint of the public. We have also worked to maintain in the Senate an amendment banning toxic chemicals in packaging. We hope that this will finally be the case, because it is an important issue. I'm done. What we are going to ask is determination, ambition, objectivity and rigour in the application of this law. We're playing the future. From a past of waste, of poor consideration and of business in waste to a future that considers waste as a fundamental part of the circular economy, of transformation and of change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u86	Thank you, President. How many times have we not heard the independenceists, as a charge, that we believe in the worst, the best. You know where I'm going. It is said: Right-wing governments have been the largest factory of independenceists. It is true that independence has always been preceded by re-centralisation, cuts in competences, contempt for the Statute of Catalonia, repression, and with you, the most progressive government in history, all of this has been maintained. Therefore, today I come to tell the Catalans that it is backwards, that the better, the worse. That doing things right in Catalonia, instead of having a prize, in the Spanish state penalizes. That the better we manage resources, the less budget the Spanish Government executes in Catalonia. That the more we tighten the belt the Catalans, the wider is Castile. That the better our waste cannon model is and the more we collaborate by teaching and creating awareness, the more interested you have been in leaving us without it, setting today a dangerous precedent. Catalonia has built over the course of eighteen years a model of success of canon of discharge and incineration of recognized and prestigious waste, a Catalan tribute that becomes of the Spanish Tax Agency; 120 million euros we will collect for Hacienda, waiting to recover that money through budgets and a mechanism that must compensate for a differential that can reach 40 million euros between what was collected Catalonia and what will be collected Hacienda. Diranustedes: The State is obliged to pay. Yes, it is, too, with regard to what is budgeted each year, and in the first half of 2021 the Catalans reached 30%. Let's see how you end the year. There must be a tax on waste management at state level, but it is an aggravation and a great injury to Catalonia that the tax is withdrawn. We told him here and we told him in the Senate, it is perfectly possible to amend the Organic Financing Act of the Autonomous Communities to allow Catalonia or other communities to continue to hold the canon. Italy, Belgium or the United Kingdom discriminate by territory. This law endangers the efficiency of a finalist canon that allows municipalities to finance infrastructure for recycling and companies and industries to implement measures by promoting sustainable practices. To finish, this text began as a Draft Law on Contaminated Wastes and Soils, and then we added 'for a Circular Economy'. And yes, we've been swimming in circles for nine months to end up recognizing that the turtles I dedicated my first words to on the occasion of this law will still be trapped by the plastic rings of the soda pack we bought on the super. Because after more than a thousand amendments between Congress and the Senate, we have only managed to reduce their use, we have not been able to agree to a ban with a time of adaptation, of moratorium. This law, like that of climate change, has remained far from expectations, and here there is no doubt, the worse, the worse.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u88	Thank you very much, President. Today the process of the Law on Contaminated Wastes and Soils and Circular Economy ends, and we wanted to take advantage of this moment to send our sincere thanks to all those environmental and environmental organizations that have accompanied us throughout all this work, especially to the Zero Residue Alliance. We would like to thank you for all your help throughout the process of this law and, in particular, for your indispensable commitment to meeting the major challenge we face as a society, which is to achieve environmental objectives. And I say that it is a major challenge because the Spanish State has not been doing its recycling duties for too long. The European Union sets a recycling target of 55% of municipal waste in 2025, when the Spanish rate in 2019 was just 34.7%. There's work, therefore. But it's not just about recycling, it's about working with all the waste pyramid. You know that 3R thing? Reducing, reusing and recycling is really where you have to work. For this reason, one of the main assumptions we have in working on this law is that the best residue is the one that is not generated. We have already repeated several times that prevention must be the basis of the waste hierarchy. We must bet decisively on ecodesign and demand more environmentally efficient products. As far as environmental taxation is concerned, we cannot forget the polluter pays principle, another fundamental principle. Therefore, an essential objective of this law was to enforce the European principle of extended producer responsibility in control, transparency and traceability measures. Finally, it was a basic requirement for the adoption of this law that the legislative powers of the Autonomous Communities, which, as you know perfectly well, have competence in waste management, should be respected and not in any case limited, but, above all, because we firmly believe that the best policy is that which is exercised from the territory itself and in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. There are territories that we have been doing our duties in the field of circular economy, and two clear examples are, on the one hand, the Balearic Islands, which have shown that it is possible to pass and apply an ambitious law in the field of waste, and, on the other hand, Catalonia, where the Climate Action Council, with Councillor Jordà at the front, together with the Catalonia Waste Agency, have a clear objective, to achieve zero residue. But in this law, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, they set out a tax on the deposit of waste at the state level which de facto eliminates one of the main environmental tools of the Government of Catalonia, such as the waste canon, a canon with almost two decades of travel - almost twenty years, that is said - and which has a broad social consensus in Catalan civil society. That is why we argued from the very first moment that Catalonia maintained that successful tool, because losing the Catalan waste canon for us is a clear setback in environmental matters. Today, thanks to months of work between the Government and the parliamentary groups, an amendment is incorporated that will allow the Generalitat de Catalunya to manage, liquidate, collect and inspect the waste fee. But we know this isn't enough. We do not give up that Catalonia can have the full regulatory capacity of the tax, something we have really insisted on over and over again. We do not, therefore, give up in that sense. That is why we will continue to maintain the maximum social consensus around the waste canon and will take advantage of each and every margin allowed by the law to maintain our tax. We again call on the Government to make the necessary changes to recover it. Until then, we reiterated our negative vote to the law. In conclusion, I would like to assess some of the amendments that have come to us from the Senate. One of our main objectives was precisely to adopt all measures guaranteeing the protection of human health. In particular, since 2023, the use of phthalates and bisphenol A in packaging was banned during the Congress proceedings. Well, that measure has been fulminated in the Senate process by the votes of PP and PSOE. We demand that it be reversed and that it be returned to the text adopted at the Congress. We are talking about eliminating toxic substances that contaminate us every day from food containers, and this does not allow truce. From a proactive point of view, we will also want to celebrate three areas in which we believe it has been improved in its handling in the Senate. Firstly, the amendment introduced concerning the deposit, return and return system in relation to the objectives set by the Ministry of Transition for 2023, since the fulfilment of the objectives has been a condition imposed by the Government for the implementation of that management system, which we consider essential. We also welcome the change introduced so that the plastic tax is finalist because we understand that the ultimate purpose of environmental taxation should allow financing and incentivizing those strategies that involve an improvement of the management and the reversal of the current situation - we say this from experience in Catalonia; our canon is a finalist canon - and therefore the resources obtained must always be used for actions such as, for example, waste prevention or even environmental education. Finally, and not least, we also welcome the State's assumption of the cost of transporting waste from Formentera and Eivissa. For us it was a demand, an amendment that we tabled at the time, and we therefore believe that it is also important. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming to this House the representatives of the organisations which work so intensively and day-to-day on the issue of waste and which are accompanying us here today. It seems to me that this is a law whose approval will be welcomed by those who voted for it and also those who voted against it. I say this because the waste problem is a real problem, it is a problem that is affecting us every day. According to recent studies, each Spaniard produces 442 kilograms of waste a year; therefore, in the end, municipalities of any political sign will have to manage this amount of waste. Some of the products that end up being waste, such as plastic products, increase at a rate of 3.5 per year, with which we find that in the end we have to manage 3.5 billion bottles of soda, 1.5 billion cups of coffee or 5 billion units of straw. It is said to be easy but these are waste that will stop being there thanks to this law, because this law sets out measures of prevention, reuse and recycling that so far were not imposed. Therefore, any municipality will be glad that the amount of waste that is being produced will be reduced. Just by giving a figure, the economic impacts of waste collection, for example on the beaches, in our country amount to 529 million euros, which the municipalities have to pay. We are therefore talking about very specific, of course environmental, of course health, but also economic issues. On the other hand, the current legislation has not served to ensure that we comply with European directives. We're failing them right now. Although the Waste Directive set a recycling target of at least 55% of waste by 31 December 2008 at the latest, we are not even there; that is to say, the current legislation has clearly been insufficient and the environmental and economic consequences are clear: on the one hand, saturated landfills, which leads to a constant search for new sites, with the consequent tide of citizen protest; fires in recycling plants - which, by the way, make us suspect what is behind so many fires -; exports of waste to third countries; seas contaminated by plastics, and so on. So this law sets out the first steps for a new model in not only managing but how we produce less waste. That is, it tries to give an answer not only to what we do with the waste, but to how we generate less waste. That's why it's making profound changes. First of all, in the reduction. I have already referred to the implementation of prevention policies that go beyond rhetoric. For the first time, by transposing the European directive or by transposing the European directive, the marketing of cutlery, dishes, straws, agitators of beverages, food containers... In short, single-use plastics that will very quickly become waste. On the other hand, it obliges the separation of organic matter, which is a substantial part of the waste and which from now on will follow a different path, going mainly to composting, which will greatly reduce the problems that organic matter generates in plants such as landfills. In addition, re-use is encouraged. With regard to recycling, which is one of the most relevant developments in this amendment of the law or this new law, deposit, return and return systems are finally put in place. This is great news because it is a debate that has been blocked for a long time, but now, at last, these recovery systems are going to be put in place, which are nothing more than a modern version of the old one returning the helmets to the store, something that we all, at least those of my generation, did quite habitually. [[The Lord]] This system, the return and return system, has high levels of effectiveness in the countries in which it is used and has broad support in public opinion. We must therefore welcome the launch in our country as well. There are other issues that are also relevant and that are addressed in the law, such as dealing with asbestos waste and setting a limit for the disposal of such waste in many places, in many municipalities, because it is well known about the health impacts that asbestos has and the number of victims it has generated. So I think we can agree that this law is a very relevant step forward in the area of waste. Obviously, from here everyone will be able to judge whether it is a sufficient or insufficient step. I also think that we have to go much further, that we have to be much more ambitious, but to be very ambitious we have to take the first steps and this law gives them. As far as the amendments coming from the Senate are concerned, there is one which we are particularly concerned about and which I would like to draw your attention to, which is Amendment 340 on Article 18(1)(i). I would like to draw your attention to ask for your vote against this amendment, because the law we passed in Congress clearly agreed to ban phthalates and bisphenol A in food containers because of the health impacts of these products. Unfortunately, in the parliamentary process, this ban disappeared. With our request we tried to recover the text that we adopted in Congress and that agreed to ban phthalates in food containers. In short, ladies and gentlemen, and with some minor change in the Senate, I believe that we are facing a step forward in a problem that undoubtedly affects us all, affects us all, affects the environment and affects the economy; in short, we are moving towards prevention policies, towards reduction policies.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u91	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u92	Moving towards policies of using the elements in a much more rational way, the materials we live with is a step forward that needs to be welcomed. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u93	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Contaminated Wastes and Soils and for a Circular Economy arises on the occasion of two directives of the European Union, but with such a subject in the hands of this eco-fanatic government, which is dedicated to demolishing thermal power plants in order to achieve a radical model that is neither more sustainable nor sovereign nor effective and that involves the destruction of our productive capacity and dependence on foreign powers, with the approval of the People's Party, which has already closed the Garoña power plant, nothing new could be expected; both kneeling before the climate gurus of the moment and condemning the Spanish to energy poverty. [[applause]] The fork that allowed transposition was broad, but a text with 118 articles emerged, which no longer liked anyone, as evidenced by the large number of amendments tabled, 1321: 742 in Congress and 579 in the Senate. And dealt with in the worst possible way, with haste and last-minute compromise amendments, something that we are already very accustomed to. A text full of ideology that does not substantially improve the amendments and that has already provoked our vote against this House and the veto in the Senate. Not only do we pay more for energy for its insane climate, we also pay more for getting rid of waste, and all thanks to Brussels' radical environmental policy, Greta and foreign globalist agendas, which bring us to ruin and misery. [[Applauds]] As we said yesterday, or green demagogy or the future of our children. The result is another project that emerged from the 2030 factory and its SDGs, "objectives of social demolition", characterized by increased state-run driving, more laborious and, above all, more tax. And it is that Brussels and Sánchez create a single-use rate on plastic packaging, another on landfill waste storage and another on waste incineration, which already apply ten autonomous communities. These taxes do not serve to prevent or reduce, they only seek to collect. [[Applauds]] Already the Council of State's opinion on the draft law warned precisely of the risk that these new burdens could entail an insurmountable cost for many of the economic operators. In addition, in case there is little, the Socialist Group is submitting two amendments amending the Water Act to recover the hydroelectric fee that the electricity companies will pay. The PP already did it in 2015, but wrong, which forced the Supreme Court to request the return of 1908 million euros. You know who's gonna pay for this hydroelectric cannon, don't you? Don't you know? I tell you: each and every one of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Economic growth will be sluggish by reducing competitiveness for businesses and harming market and entrepreneurship freedom, which will eventually impact on the pocket of all families. We will say it again: the best residue is the one that is not generated. But in the project prevention is little more than a declaration of intent without serious control mechanisms, although it does establish a sanctioning regime. For you prevention is to interfere in the productive models of companies by fixing which products have to be withdrawn or which ones have to be put back on the market. In VOX we believe that the opposite is true, it is necessary to allow the R & D & i departments to know how to innovate the best materials that are free of toxics and packaging prepared for the 100% recovery technology, zero waste and other viable initiatives, with patents and competition in the market. With a progressive language that floods the whole text, as a society of recycling, resilience or co-governance, the true intention is hidden, which is nothing other than the growth of an already existing artificial waste market, multiplying bureaucratic bodies from the general budgets. Its longing circular economy is also not defined. The only thing that circulates in the project is the money for subsidies, taxes and taxes collected by the State in each phase of the recycling process. [[Applauds]] The autonomous communities will have discretion in the authorizations, one more step in the bankruptcy of the market unit and in the inequality between Spaniards. The European Union wants to harmonise each and every criterion. However, what you want and what you are committed to is to develop seventeen taifas markets. It is not understood that the same material has different consideration in one region of Spain or another. Nor is energy recovery by incineration of non-hazardous waste envisaged more than in the last place and with prohibitive taxation, when it is rapid, clean, within the limits of the European Union and which makes it possible to transform energy into electricity, evaporative heat. But they don't like it because it's not part of the artificial and sustained business of their chiringuitos. [[Applauds]] We see positive the reduction of methane emissions from landfills or farms for their transformation into biogas, without criminalising farmers. In twenty-five years we will have an avalanche of solar panels rich in cadmium, lead, heavy metals, to have to recycle them, panels produced entirely in China, the largest source of CO2 in the world. All this is done, to the greatest glory of the government, with the European Green Pact, from whose sources this project drinks, but leaving a poisoned legacy to future generations. Of course, we must save the planet, but we must save it from all of you. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u95	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Alonso Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u96	Thank you, President. Today we are at the end of the process of a draft regulation which transposes two European directives, that of waste and that of plastics of one use, a law that comes to this House late and bad. I know that your left-wing lordships would love to blame all their problems, as they always do, on the People's Party, but in this case they really have difficulty. The Directives are 2018 and 2019 and had the deadline for transposition June 2020 and July 2021, respectively. And do you know who's been in Moncloa since 2018? Mr. Pedro Sánchez. We have 118 articles before us, and for those 118 articles in Congress, 742 amendments were tabled and, in the Senate, 579, the People's Parliamentary Group has contributed most, because we do listen to society. The aim of my parliamentary group has been to receive dozens and dozens of associations, collectives and companies to correct the most negative aspects of the text, because for us it is a priority to make a fair transition, meeting the demands of civil society and the more than a million companies on which this law has a significant impact, most SMEs and self-employed, which have not been heard by Minister Ribera. The government's work can be summed up very easily: to transpose the two above-mentioned directives, to ideologize the text as much as possible in order to reduce competitiveness to Spanish industry and, taking advantage of the Pisuerga pass through Valladolid - and this is what a Wallisolatano says - they create two new taxes because this is what they are best given. [[Applauds]] I have come to the conclusion that there is nothing that a politician of the Socialist Party likes better than creating a new tax. It excites them, recognize it. Just as you have not wanted to reach agreement either with the autonomous communities, with the municipalities or with the representatives of the industry, because we already know what you like about the roller. One of the fundamental levers of the ecological transition that our country needs is to move from a linear economy to a circular economy. That is why this law is a missed opportunity. The only thing that needs to be circulated is the name and definition thanks to the amendments of the People's Party. What about the waste law in the Senate? For you take advantage of two amendments to recover the hydroelectric cannon, even if it has little to do with the object of this law. When I read it for the first time I thought they were wrong and that they had confused packaging with reservoirs, but in the end I could see that it was not. What I have seen is that with what is falling, in the midst of an energy price crisis, your concern has been to use a sectoral law that has nothing to do with this matter to introduce a tax through the back door. [[Applauds]] I don't know if inflation sounds like anything to you, but I assure you that millions of Spaniards who can't make it to the end of the month sound like a lot. Yesterday we knew that the March inflation figure was 9.8 %, a new figure since 1985. Since you are in government the end of the month for Spanish families begin on the fifteenth day. I know that when we talk about taxes they get nervous, so nervous that when we register our amendments aimed at the moratorium on the plastic tax to support Spanish industry at such a difficult time, the government vetoed them, once again, of anti-democratic behavior. First, they made it impossible for this House to debate the tax in the paper and then to withdraw the veto because it was convenient for them to try not to lay down the law for them, because you don't like the Bank of Spain or the European Commission to discourage increasing tax pressure on citizens. We have also suffered them in the Senate, where they have done everything possible to prevent an amendment by the People's Party aimed at extending the useful life of many products and foods, preventing them from ending up in the landfill, while curbing waste and fighting inequality; an amendment that facilitates the donation of products to social organizations by eliminating VAT in these cases. This is a direct cost to companies that disincentives donations and causes that, on many occasions - and this is shameful - it is cheaper to destroy than to donate, something that is especially traumatic for many of the tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. We have managed to push it forward in the Senate with your vote against and we hope that, for the sake of the environment, the third sector, the most disadvantaged and the companies in our country, we will also do so today. Speaking of taxes, they have also shown their true face in voting against our amendments declaring the finalist nature of taxes so that collection can be devoted exclusively to measures and investments related to waste management and the circular economy. The above-mentioned amendments have been put forward by the opposition groups because you have shown little interest in the environment and waste management. However, what they did make clear in the Senate was their eagerness to continue with the waste. From here I would like to thank Senators Martínez Mus and Juncal for their tireless work and my colleagues, César Sánchez and Guillermo Mariscal, for not falling into discouragement, even though you have not made it easy for us. They, along with our excellent advisors, Bernedo and Ruiz, have made this possible. Gentlemen of the Government, tax collection has risen almost EUR 30 billion last year. They don't like the Spaniards having their own money in their pockets. They think that the government will spend it better and that it is preferable for citizens to rely on their subsidies. You know what they say on the left: if something moves, put a tax on it; if it keeps moving, regulate it; and if it stops moving, give it a subsidy. It is a phrase of the eighties, of President Reagan, but with you in the government it is still in full force. [[Applauds]] The position of the People's Party has been that of a state party, a responsible and serious party that has tried to bring its management experience so that a bad law gets here less evil. We simply ask them to want and support the corrections we have made to them in the Senate. The street is talking and you know that sooner than later Spain will have a People's Party government. Help, now that they still can, to improve the country's situation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u97	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u98	I'm done, President. This law is a missed opportunity, but the Spaniards who see how the light goes up, how the gas goes up or how the prices of the commodities go up don't have time to waste. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u99	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u100	President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome the organizations that accompany us from the guest gallery. The new Law on Contaminated Wastes and Soils for a Circular Economy is now entering its final line. With this initiative, the Government of Spain faces one of the biggest challenges for the environment, for sustainable development and also for human health: waste generation and management. Honourable Member of the People's Party, your colleague, Mr Sánchez, was more kind when we had the previous debate. I don't recognize him. I think we had worked well and that we had worked very hard. You tell me about taxes, you tell me about transposition of directives. Please, Your Honor, you have already been given a review by my colleagues to your group this week of how you raised taxes from VAT to the IRPF, going through electricity taxes. [[Applauds]] Please. But it's that, besides, they go up and up badly. Therefore, it is up to us to pay the citizens for the taxes and for the failure, which we have to pay to the electricians two billion euros. They go up and up badly. With regard to transpositions, do not remind me of what we are paying in Europe for its waste water management. So I'm surprised. The denialists of VOX, who do not like the vocabulary that comes in the law and seem to have to take the dictionary in order to understand it, and that probably has made them not read it, just want to tell them that the conservation of the environment and the fight against climate change is a social requirement and a duty of the public authorities, as reflected in the Spanish Constitution in its article 45. Those who do not see this reality or do not want to see it have the slightest sense of patriotism. The earth is cared for because the earth is generous and cares for us. [[Applauds]] The earth is cared for because the opposite is to attack life. And here there is no more debate, because debate with you, honestly, is a waste of time. [[Rumors]] I'm going to continue with the important thing. The new law, in addition to complying with European directives, as has been said here, promotes a different model of production and consumption, respectful of our health and the health of the planet, through the prevention and reduction of waste generation and its impacts. The rule addresses this environmental problem from a sustainable development perspective, where waste will become resources without leaving the value chain, that is, where there was waste, we will now have raw materials and new opportunities for training, innovation and employment. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we call circular model. We started from a context of more than 22 million tonnes of municipal waste in our country in 2018, of which more than 50% was destined for landfill. The landfill is the main waste destination in our country and we therefore waste much of our resources. Plasticssons the most frequent waste at sea and on our coasts, more than 70% of the total. The European Union has set targets for 2020, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which we do not meet, and that is why they must be reviewed again. From Brussels, several reports have been made with recommendations that had not been implemented and are now reflected in this law. For all the above, the law sets out measures necessary to correct the course of waste treatment and increase recycling rates in our country, thus fulfilling our objectives and commitments. In addition to this law, the Government has adopted the Spain Circular 2030 strategy, the Circular Economy Action Plan 20212023 and five royal decrees on waste. The recovery plan has incorporated a specific envelope for investments in circular economy: EUR 850 million. And, yes, two taxes are created, on landfill and incineration and on single-use plastic containers, as well as trying to recover the hydroelectric cannon. Ladies and gentlemen, environmental taxation is an economic instrument that contributes to the protection of the environment. Therefore, the purpose of taxes is to encourage the most respectful behaviors with the natural environment. The one who pays, the one who pays dirty and the one who breaks pays, don't you see it fair, ladies and gentlemen on the right? Don't you see it fair? In parallel with the pandemic or this cruel war that we are experiencing, the greatest challenge facing humanity, ladies and gentlemen, is advancing climate change. The environmental crisis will remain there when everything passes and we have to fight it. We will face the environmental crisis, we will have to change the way we produce and consume and also the way we manage our waste. I'm finishing up. I want to thank the work of the parliamentary groups in general and especially those who have supported it; that of the rapporteurs, Idoia, Inés, Guitarte, Oskar, Carmen Martínez, César and José Ángel, are many amendments, congratulations to everyone for the work; also that of civil society, which has brought us their commitment and knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, the CUP, Junts and Esquerra, we feel that they have not been added; I would like to thank you for the amendments you have made, which have certainly improved the law. Mr. Eritja - I don't know if you're out there - what a paradox. Many times your spokesman goes up here to give us lessons from the left and I listen to him carefully; however, you will now vote with VOX. It's a paradox. Mrs. Calvo has told us how well she goes to the canon in Catalonia, and it's true. That is why it will be an example to follow by the tax of this law, which will be at the state level, but we not only want it to be good for you, we want it to be good for all of us. I want to thank the work of Dani and Esther; Juantxo; of the team of the ministry, whose availability and involvement has been total; of the lawyer, who has made the road ever easier for us; of the Socialist Group, which despite the adversities we have always worked without losing sight of social justice, which goes hand in hand with environmental justice, and is committed to the constitutional values of article 45. [[applause]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is patriotism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u101	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u103	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u104	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the statement on the general account of the State for the financial year 2019 and the resolution adopted by that Committee. Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u105	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a servant does not want to confuse them very much with a subject that I know does not arouse a great political interest such as the general account, but it is curious that this Congress does attach a significant importance to something like drawing up a country's annual budget and, for some reason, the result of the implementation of that budget, the annual economic and financial situation of a country as a result of the implementation of that budget and its capital situation do not seem to arouse excessive interest. In fact, sometimes the misunderstanding about the general account of a public administration is such that it is voted against. I do not know if any group will vote against it today, we will obviously vote yes, because voting against voting against the accounting officer is voting against what he has put the numbers on a paper, not against the policies that reflect those numbers, which obviously should be the subject of criticism and reflection, especially in order, on the basis of that information, to draw up better budgets for the future, for the following annualities. The dynamics of the handling of this issue are quite complicated by how the Government conducts this audit of economic management on an annual basis. In fact, we find that we are going to approve the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors, with its resolutions adopted on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, on the basis of the account drawn up by the General Intervention of the State. Interestingly, we are talking about the numbers, which turned black on white, the management of the year 2019 and we are in March 2022. You can imagine that this information, which can be very interesting, is unfortunately very out of date. I am not saying that any critical debate we can have on the implementation of the Spanish Government's budget for 2019 in March 2022 is obviously irrelevant, but at least it is not very interesting, for example, to draw up a new budget. We have already gone through two budgets since then and yet we have not taken into account how the numbers were carried out in 2019. This is because there is a mechanics that practically makes the knowledge of the closed accounting of an exercise, as in this case the 2019, by the General Courts, which is the body that has to approve that accounting, can go to sixteen months. In the private sphere, any company has to submit its accounts within six months and, in addition, deposit them in the Property Registry within one more month. In the case of local entities, before October 31st it has to be... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I say that in the local authorities it has to be approved by the plenary before 31 October of the year following the financial year that closes, therefore, there is a lapse that at least allows us to know what numbers have been carried out in an administration. But in the case of the General Administration of the State that is very difficult, not only because, as I say, we are no longer going to an average or a minimum of about sixteen months, that is to say, this Congress would be aware, through the opinion of the Joint Commission, in April of the second year after the end of the exercise, but also that there are a number of resolutions that, as the Court of Auditors itself has pointed out in its reports, in this case of 2017 and 2018, has not been fulfilling the Government's efforts to shorten, for example, the deadlines. I have already announced to you that this is one of the initiatives that my group is going to put on the table, that there is indeed a legal reform that will allow at least in the same year after the closure of a financial year the general account of the State can be closed, the report of the Court of Auditors can be made and approved by the Joint Committee and brought to this plenary. We believe that it is important that we can have a more or less prudent time to know data such as the one that casts the 2019 account, such as that 54 public entities of the 441 of the General Administration of the State did not manage to integrate their accounts into the general account of the State, or that there is a gap in the first formation of the account by the General Intervention of the State of more than 117 million euros, or that we still do not complete inventories of immobilized material in many ministerial units, or that again there is evidence that Social Security is an entity that is still underfunded, and that there are 17 billion euros formalized between 1992 and 1999 that remain unsanied. That is, it is data from the year 2019 that we know and that we are going to approve today, in March 2022, but that are absolutely outdated. Similarly, in this opinion there are judgments issued by the General Courts, in the sense that I have already commented on 2017 and 2018, which are pending enforcement; moreover, this is what the Court of Auditors points out. Therefore, from this point of view, we believe that it is necessary to make an effort from the legislative branch, from this Congress, to speed up the processing of the elaboration and approval of the general account of the State so that the temporary framework does not exceed, as I have said, that of one year from the exercise in question. As the great Tip would say - and here I leave it - about the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors, we will talk next week. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u108	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we spend a lot of time, a lot of debate, a lot of discussion and a lot of negotiation when we adopt the general state budgets, and the truth is that once the government in office has approved the budgets, the intensity in relation to the budget document and its low implementation, it is reduced or practically disappears. On the other hand, at the time when the general account is presented, beyond the formulation of the account itself as a summary and settlement of the budgetary year, in these Chambers it always passes, it is not a question of now, absolutely unnoticed. With this, I believe that the governments in charge are given the opportunity to pass accounts. The truth is that this general account of 2019 has several peculiarities: the exercise of 2019 is already an exercise of socialist government in its entirety; it has another peculiarity that has passed more than one occasion, which is the liquidation of an extended budget, and it has a third peculiarity, it has not passed so much, and it is an extended budget of the previous government. I think it will be the only time that it will happen, but in any case it is a good time to analyze, to see if you have corrected mistakes of the past, if you are moving forward and if you can draw any conclusions. First of all, a note that I like to make in these debates is that we are very demanding with the autonomous communities and especially with the local corporations as regards their accountability, as it should be, but perhaps the General Administration of the State is not so much so when it applies to itself; in fact, the Court of Auditors points out that of the 441 entities that would have to be part of the object of this general account of the State, there are 54 that are not integrated for different reasons, which quantitatively represent a very limited part of the budget, but they represent 12% of all entities that are not integrated, either because they have not approved accounts, or because they have not commissioned them in time. It is true that 46 of them are UNED consortia. This percentage remains stable over previous years. Let me look at some of the relevant aspects of budget implementation. One that these days is very topical: the defense budget, the defense program. Well, in 2019, the same thing happened that happened in 2018 and it was over in 2017: an amount of the extended budget is budgeted, it is expanded very significantly, 8100 million euros are budgeted, budget changes are made for more than 900 million euros. In other words, the initial defence budget is increased by 11.57%, and almost 100% of the final appropriations are implemented here. So, beyond the debates about whether we increase our defence spending or not, there is one previous one: that we should really budget the expenditure that we actually do. We do not have to do that fiction when we approve the budgets that the defence budget is increased by 2% or 3% knowing that you will change it by 11% a posteriori. This high implementation of the defence budget, programme 12, contrasts with the low implementation of some very significant programmes. In the industry programme, of all appropriations budgeted, only 77 % is implemented; in the defence programme 98 % is implemented. In the trade and tourism programs... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u110	Mr. Bel, forgive me. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you again, please, for silence and respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u111	Thank you, President. In addition, it is very interesting the data I give them and they can give a lot of play to each other. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] In programme 43, trade and tourism, in 2019 the government was only able to implement 45% of budget appropriations. Therefore, the problem was not that there were no budget appropriations, the problem was the inability to execute them, and that should serve as a reflection and purpose for amendment, because some of the calls for such programmes are so restricted that companies cannot attend, and this is the problem of low implementation. This is still more bloody in programme 46, which is research, development and technological innovation. We have a problem with research and development expenditure throughout the Spanish State. Well, of what is budgeted, which is practically EUR 6 billion, only 49 % has been implemented, i.e. in 2019 not even half of all budgeted amounts in research and development have been implemented. Another element of reflection. Why? Because much of this budget allocation is earmarked for loans to companies or research centres on conditions that are absolutely impossible. In any case, let us hope that this can be solved when we look at the 2020 general account. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u113	Thank you, President. The 2019 report on the General Account of the State of the Court of Auditors, whose opinion we intend to adopt today, is incomplete. They have not been monitored more than 12% of public sector entities because they have not presented their accounts; in other words, they have failed to comply with the law and nothing happens here, because the Court of Auditors does not pursue those who do not submit their accounts or pursue corruption, it pursues their political enemies, because it is an absolutely politicised court that carries out its supervisory work without any kind of control. Worse still, when we tabled four hundred parliamentary questions from the Republican Left to monitor it, the Bureau of Congress, with a majority of PSOE and the United Podemos, rejected them because it considered that the control of the Court of Auditors would cover matters outside the competence of the Government. If the proper democratic functioning of the State institutions, and in particular of the Court of Auditors, is truly outside the competence of the Government, the great democratic deficits of the State are understood, which have been pointed out by the Council of Europe and the Cilevics report. [[Applauds]] The democratic shortcomings of the Court of Auditors are very deep and structural and are not solved with the patch of renewal of its members, because, despite being called a court, its members are not judges, although judgment and you cannot defend yourself in ordinary jurisdiction, and after preliminary proceedings in which you are not given the opportunity to intervene, they notify you of a summons and verbally inform you of the liquidation they consider, which must be paid in very few days, assuming accounting responsibility without the right to defence, without having concluded the trial. Either you pay or you get stuck, and point; that, if you're an independentist, if you're a corrupt PP, no. In fact, among the vetoed questions, it was raised why no property liability has been claimed in cases of corruption or waste such as Ercros, with Piqué and Rat, or City of Justice, with Esperanza Aguirre, or more than 5000 floors sold to vulture funds by Ana Botella, while Catalan politicians accused of organizing the referendum on 1 October, especially Catalan prisoners and political prisoners like my sister, who have already been paid with prison. [[Applauds]] Obviously, we suspect that the fact that they were as members of the Court of Auditors, among others, the brother of José María Aznar or his ex-minister, Mariscal de Gante, will have something to do with the politicization and ideological bias of this court. We also ask why there is no persecution of the social security fund, which belongs to the workers and from which thousands and billions of euros have been extracted, destined after all, which has nothing to do with social security benefits, while the Catalan embassies are being persecuted for allegedly exceeding their powers. [[applause]] In fact, the Court of Auditors becomes, without having the capacity or legal amparo to be, in a constitutional court, a constitutional court capable of determining whether the Department of External Action of the Generalitat de Catalunya has or does not have the competence to carry out certain activities. And while the Court of Auditors becomes the economic arm of repression through the control of the independent enemy, no one, no one controls the expenses or the proceedings of the Court of Auditors itself. Thus, the Court of Auditors spends more than EUR 4 million on productivity for its workers or more than EUR 500 a day on diets, something we have also asked the Government about, but, of course, the Bureau of Congress says that this waste, this public money is outside the competence of the Government. It is curious that PSOE and United We can also veto our questions as to whether one in seven people working in the Court of Auditors is related, a scandal of nepotism that seems not to interest the members of the government in particular in this House. [[applause]] All this without the lack of control of the house and the royal family or other institutions and agencies of the State, which, as you know well, have bought police by the cloacas of this State to benefit a political party, as demonstrated in the Kitchen Commission. [[Applauds]] In short, we are going to vote against this opinion not only because this report is incomplete and because the recommendations and the resolutions fail year after year, but because we refuse to endorse the legitimacy of this so-called court. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comú, I give the floor to Ms. Maestro Moliner. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u115	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that from our group we are going to vote in favour of the opinion of the Joint Committee of the Court of Auditors, because, in general terms, we understand, as the Court itself has understood, that it is a faithful reflection of both the financial and financial situation that has been developed specifically in the general account of 2019 and that the deficiencies that can be found are more administrative than other issues. Of course, we always recognize that further work is needed and that, as other speakers have already said, it is vital that we implement at once those resolutions which were adopted in the General Courts and which, unfortunately, are still latent. Similarly, being a widespread criticism, it is essential that we recognize that deadlines are not at least ideals. The President herself of the Court of Auditors acknowledged how unoperational-so many times it has been said here - that we are having a debate in March 2022 on the general account of the State of 2019, but it must also be remembered that on this occasion we are talking about quite exceptional circumstances that we have not seen at other times. I would like to stress the importance of operationality. Those of you who are in the Joint Committee already know that my interventions always go through that side, which is very specifically to highlight the need for the Court of Auditors' reports to be much more operational, for us to talk much more about management and much less about accounting or budgets. What we need are useful tools for parliamentarians to be able to make real assessments of public policies, and there we are going to insist from the United Nations we can every time we have a chance. Of course, the time frame issue has been improved, because we are now talking about that in almost six months we can now move on to that accountability, with the commitment that it will be improved in the future. There are two very important issues that, although they do not have such a vital accounting burden, we would like to highlight. First - it has also been commented -, the budget we are talking about in the account is 2019, the budget immediately preceding the pandemic. Mr. Bel was also commenting on it. It is a pre-pandemic and extended budget. We are talking about extensions, with the addition that we were forced to manage the pandemic, but we could talk practically about a complex budget cycle that would span from 2018 to 2022. That's where we'd have the whole pak so we could get an idea about it. To this end of the cycle - we could be talking about 2022, which is expected to overcome the pandemic - we have to add, regrettably, to it the negative effects that the new uncertainties inherent in the war in Ukraine, the increase in energy and inflation with less growth can produce. First of all - and this has already been said on several occasions - the Government has mobilised a package of economic and social measures around 16 billion in order to alleviate this kind of consequences. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u116	Ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, Mrs. Master. I'm sorry to have to interrupt you all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just asking for a little education. There is a person who is speaking and cannot be heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u117	Thank you very much, President. As I said, it is essential for us to insist that the orientation of economic and fiscal policy and, in general, budgetary policy developed by a Government is what it will mean to leave no one to their fate and achieve fair recovery. Here we can talk about Spain having faced an unprecedented crisis and the answers have been very different to the neoliberal solutions we have faced in past crises. Measures have been taken to alleviate the impact on our productive fabric and on the well-being of families. They have been answers, as you know, diametrically opposed to those we have known in other governments and other situations. On this occasion, there were no cuts in sensitive items of current public expenditure or public investment. However, with regard to the allocation we also have on European funds, as well as the maintenance of the suspension of the European restrictive tax rules, a moderately expansionary budgetary strategy has been maintained. In other words, fiscal policy is trying to support economic recovery through European funding and, first and foremost, without cuts or devaluations, but we must be very clear that all this must go through a fiscal reform that ensures greater progressivity and sufficiency in public revenue. Otherwise, we will never be able to solve these kinds of shortcomings. Secondly, but no less important - especially from the accounting point of view - we can talk about that most of the budget deficit - in this case of 2019 - is attributed to Social Security. Obviously, there is not enough revenue for Social Security to finance its current expenditure. We are basically talking about pensions and social benefits. We must avoid that accounting fiction that is so much being used for the State to lend to the system itself, especially knowing that they will never be returned. We cannot allow this structural deficit that Social Security has to be consolidated, which neither in any way heals its balance sheet nor avoids that generalised debt. What we must do in a clear, clear and uncomplex way - as we have already stated in all forums - is to bet that contributions to social security are made directly through a transfer of funds to the general budgets of the State, because we do believe that the public pension fund, its income and, of course, the whole public social security system is sufficient. In this sense, we will also continue to bet on all the measures that can be put in place to continue on that path of reducing the deficit of Social Security, because we will always make that bet without allowing other parties - which are the adalides of privatization and cuts and which have shown us so much - to get their hands on that necessary provision of Social Security and in general throughout the treasury. We will continue on that path, we will continue on the path that has also marked the Toledo Pact and, of course, we will bet on that guarantee of a sufficient, guaranteed and well-funded public pension system. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Master. Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u119	Madam President, we are talking about the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the declaration on the State's general account for 2019, an opinion in which the Government is urged to meet the objectives of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. A Government that does not listen or simply does not want or does not know is urged. Let us review the general account of the State and see some data showing us what the concept of budgetary stability is for the Social-Communist Government. First, we are talking about a negative net worth in 2019 of 451059 million euros, that is, we owe 451,059 million euros more than we have, a negative figure that has increased in the year 2020 to 579,412 million euros. These figures are the cumulative result of inefficiency and irresponsibility in the management of the public accounts of successive PP and PSOE governments in recent years. [[Applauds]] Let us remember that from 2010 to 2019 the negative net assets of the public accounts have increased by 255,330 million euros. Second. The loss attributed to the dominant company amounts to EUR 37,792 million in 2019. That is, while the Spanish economy grew to 2.1% in 2019, the revenue from ordinary management grew to 4.1%, interest rates remained at 0%, the public accounts recorded a loss of €37 792 million. That, ladies and gentlemen, has only one name, and it's called incompetence. [[Applauds]] Third. A total debt, adding short and long maturitys of EUR 1,117,068 million, debt that is the result of accumulated inefficiencies of previous years, inefficiencies that are demonstrated in the fact that during the period 2010 to 2019, for each euro of GDP growth, the debt increased by EUR 3,14. Fourth. Financial expenditure amounting to EUR 24 837 million, a very high amount as a result of an irresponsible increase in public debt which conditions the rest of public expenditure. Secondly, I would like to stress two motions for resolutions tabled by the VOX Group, which were not adopted by the Commission. First. Define and quantify the collection required to have an additional euro of effective public expenditure, as well as efficiency costs, compliance costs and administration costs. Pure common sense, they add to a situation of strong deficit in the public accounts. Monday. To study the implementation of the budgetary methodology of the zero base budget, with a view to: providing greater efficiency in the use of public resources, providing better information when making decisions and contributing to the reduction of the medium-term public deficit. [[applause]] Again pure common sense. They refuse to budget on a zero basis because they know that, in applying this methodology, the inefficiencies and duplications that exist in the State and that they refuse to commit will come to light. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, I would like to talk about the Court of Auditors. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we have already denounced the lack of respect for democracy which is the pact reached by PP, PSOE and Podemos to distribute the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] With that pact - we said in its day - institutions are surrendered and the defence of the rule of law is weakened against those who are committed to attacking it; a pact that gives oxygen to separatists and a government that tramples on the Constitution. The passage of time has given us reason, as evidenced by the fact that the first major decision of the Court of Auditors, after its renewal, was to accept the resources of the convicted jolters for the Generality to approve the €5.4 million. [[Applauds]] It should be recalled that the Court of Auditors, prior to its renewal, had rejected the Generality's endorsement and announced the embargo to twenty-eight Angolan leaders. The worst is that, ultimately, we are all the Spaniards, since the Generality has no money, has debts, and of great importance. Let us remember that in September 2021 the Generality has a debt of 82,936 million euros, of which 66,936 is debt to the State, since no one buys debt from the Generality of Catalonia. Finally, we are faced with a general state account with a negative net worth. We are faced with political parties that are not interested in analysing the efficiency of spending. We are facing a lack of respect for democracy which presupposes the pact between the PP, the PSOE and Podemos. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, by principle, by credibility, by consistency, by integrity, by respect for democracy VOX does not participate in the vote on the renewal of the posts of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of principle...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u120	Mr. Sáez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u121	I'm finishing up. ...,by responsibility, by credibility, by sense of state, by common sense since VOX, we cannot support an opinion that does not include measures to reduce in the future the amount of the worrying imbalance in public accounts. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u122	Thank you, Mr. Saez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u123	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Bassa that it does not seem very consistent to take away from the Court of Auditors jurisdictional functions and to give them to a committee of inquiry. I don't know since when a commission of inquiry is a judicial unorgan. And I would also like to say that criticism of any institutional body or institution of the State, coming from its party, has no credibility when its leader has been convicted of sedition and embezzlement. This general account of 2019 and the presentation made to us by the President of the Court of Auditors allow us to talk about several things - some interesting, Mr López-Bas - basically about the risks facing our economy and the management of public administrations and the negative consequences of mismanagement. Before we go into this matter, we put to you a proposal. We must make, together with the Court of Auditors and the General Intervention of the State, a greater effort of study, work and agreement to give an impetus to measures which will significantly reduce the time limits and time limits, as Mr LópezBas said, in the next general accounts of the State. I hope that we will have enough generosity and willingness to work, because it cannot be that 54 of the 441 entities in the state public sector have not been integrated into the general account; that EUR 1784.50 million of bonuses for the promotion of employment by SEPE have been eliminated from the financial statements; that there are multiple deficiencies in the inventories of assets and items of the material immobilised and in their accounting valuation; that the valuation of the deterioration of the recorded debts, excluding those of Social Security, as recognized rights, was insufficient in 7558.40 million euros; that the budget has not been charged EUR 12,684.7 million from the creditors' account for accrual operations in December when it was done in 2018 and in previous years, and many other safeguards. We cannot continue with this level of caution in the general account. Let's take the risks. We were transferred by the President of the Court of Auditors; risks that have not been taken by Mr Sánchez since his arrival in the government in 2018. Firstly, pensions and social expenditure. If you analyze the negative net assets of the Social Security system, as accentuated over time... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u125	..., the president told us, by the data it can be seen that pensions, both those paid by social security and those paid through passive classes, account for 61% of the total current liabilities, 36.7% of the total net recognised obligations and if the debt is excluded, account for 51%. This means that pension expenditure is more than half of public expenditure. The sum of pensions, unemployment and other economic benefits accounts for 61% of net recognised obligations, excluding public debt, and these levels are maintained in the general budgets for this year 2022. Secondly, public debt. The president told us that the sum of the payments generated by the amortization of the public debt and the financial expenses of the State accounts for 46% of all the obligations of the General Administration of the State. The financing of these budgetary expenditure has mostly been achieved through the issuance of new debt, which accounts for 44 % of the net revenue budget collection, almost 50 %. This mechanism for financing the payment of financial expenditure through debt issues implies that these interests become debt capital, which will lead to an increase in the financial burden in the following years. What does the Court of Auditors' sound analysis of these two points tell us? It tells us, on the one hand, of the importance of the social policy of the State, but, on the other hand, of the low investor profile of the budget, of the little room for manoeuvre that the public administrations have and, therefore, of the risks involved. That is why the margin provided by economic growth, a good fiscal consolidation policy, maintaining surpluses over time and reducing public debt is so important. This economic and fiscal policy is the only thing that will save us from the next crisis and, curiously, this policy is the one that this Government does not even think about. One current example, if you see the television chatter these days, is that people who often support the management of the Government, curiously - in quotes - transfer the same message to us, the inability to take more budgetary measures, contrary to what other countries around us do, because of the lack of funds. That is, we no longer have the capacity to cope with a crisis. And that's why these data are more bloody than I'm presenting to you. In 2019, GDP grew below the target, the deficit was above the target, more than double, and - an outrageous curiosity for me - the first year since 2010, at the height of the financial crisis, in which the public deficit in this country is not reduced, increasing the economy to 2%. The debt target in 2019 was not met and the expenditure rule was not met by the Central State Administration, the autonomous communities and local corporations, i.e. all public administrations. That is, no budgetary targets were met in 2019. Congratulations, Mr Sánchez, Mrs Montero and Mrs Calviño. I remind you that in 2017, the last full year that the People's Party ruled, all the goals were met. These management errors demonstrate, as I mentioned a moment ago, the inability to help our economy and the Spanish in the face of crisis situations such as the one we are experiencing. In addition to errors in the management of public accounts, Spain has another branch: errors in our economic policy. The President of the Government complained yesterday about the bad luck of his Government for the events, but the bad luck is not of him, but of Spain: larisis has caught us again with a socialist government. You, gentlemen of the PSOE, are doing it again, as Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero has already done. Change the way you manage or leave the government as soon as possible, for the sake of this country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u126	Thank you, Mr. Paniagua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with good news, of which you do not like it: the government deficit of 2021 fell by 6.76%, 28% less than the previous year. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[applause]] They like that news as much as the national plan against the effects of the war or as the Iberian exceptionality that President Pedro Sánchez has achieved at the last European Council. It's good news in the face of a difficult situation. Of course, every effort is being made. Ladies and gentlemen, 2019 general account. A year of misconceptions, the year of the political blockade. Two elections were repeated, one in April, because the draft budgets for 2019 were not approved. The blockade was by PP and Citizens, who joined Catalan independence. The elections had to be repeated in November, but not with the same block, but with another different block. In this case, the investiture did not support it neither PP nor Citizens nor, even, Podemos. Citizens certainly had a historic mistake that is going to pass on to the analysts of parliamentaryism in this country. The CIS, which said that almost 50% of the Spanish population considered the second problem in this country to be politics and politicians, above all unemployment, considered it to be the second problem. This blockade, this political misconception, meant allowing the ultra-right to enter Parliament. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]] Fascism has entered this Parliament and, if you don't like it, this outdated band of brains that is VOX. [[rumors and protests]] [[Rumors]] That was the consequence. [[A Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Do you know anything about what you're talking about?]] Why? Because the blockade is anti-politics, which is what VOX practices: it denies everything and refuses everything. And in that game of anti-politics the People's Party also entered, and continues in it. I ask the People's Party two questions. The first question is, haven't you learned the lesson? Don't you realize how the beast is fed? [[Rumors and Protests]] That's the first question I ask you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u129	Second question I ask you. Are you going to change your strategy? Is Mr Feijoo going to realize that anti-politics does not belong to a political party that wants to be an alternative to government? [[Rumors]] Mr Feijóo has the opportunity to support the plan of confrontation against the effects of the war and to unlock the renewal of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[rumors]] Let him prove it. [[Applauds]] Let the cordon sanitaire to VOX, not as they have done in Castile and León and let us hope that they will not do so in Andalusia, although they will not have the opportunity, because it would be a real casus belli for the Andalusians that the ultra-right and fascism would enter the government. [[rumors]] [[Rumors and Protests]] You're not gonna have that chance. [[Rumors.-Applause.- Various Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Fascist! Fascist! Fascist!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u130	Quiet, please. Mr. Hurtado, I ask you, please, to get to the point. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u131	I'm going to the point. [[Mr Sánchez del Real speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u132	Mr. Sánchez del Real, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u133	The consequence of this misconception and blockade was the extension of the State's budgets, in accordance with article 134 of the Constitution and article 38 of the General Budget Act. Obviously, it was not a government-made budget and, therefore, changes and adjustments had to be made in order to develop policies; it would have been yours to have the budget that was vetoed for 2019. Of course, that is the question by which the budget is extended and settled, and that is what we are bringing here today. I, too, am going to provide significant data on this budgetary liquidation. Recognitions of rights and obligations are lowered, as is normal in an extended budget: 78 billion recognised revenues less and 13 billion euros less in respect of recognised obligations. The main reason is because it lowers the level of indebtedness in 2019, because there is less issuance of public debt. Recognized obligations why do they fall? I'll explain. Firstly, because in some chapters, such as staff costs, the replacement rate, which had frozen and left the People's Party to zero, was increased, and salaries were also raised by 2.25%; indeed, with a CPI of 0.8%, a substantial improvement in the purchasing power of public employees. The chapter on current transfers also increased. Why, you'll be wondering. Because pensions were raised not by the CPI, but by double the CPI: 1.8% by general pensions and 3% by minimum pensions, with 0.8% by CPI. What's down? Financial expenditure, due to the good evolution of interest rates. Real investment and capital transfers fell, just because the extended budgets cannot incorporate all the appropriations. The Court of Auditors therefore points out in this report that there are improvements to be made in the memory of the general account corresponding to the general state intervention, including the balance sheet and the management report and the establishment of a social security financing system, because the social security deficit was set at EUR 16.6 billion. Lowered the debt, lowered the public deficit...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u134	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u135	... and this requirement - I conclude, president - has been fulfilled in subsequent years with the pension reform, with the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage and with the labour reform. Those are facts, not words, and that is helping this country to move forward. You have to change yourselves, move from blockage to collaboration. Thank you. [[Applause. - Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Fascist! Fascist! Fascist!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I'll call you to order. We'll vote in five minutes. I warn you that, since there are quite a few votes, we are going to reduce the voting time. So we'll go from fifteen to ten seconds. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the voting. We started with non-law propositions. No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the tax reduction of fuels in the face of the energy emergency. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 votes, plus 12 telematics votes, 343; 149 plus 5 telematics votes, 154; 179 plus 7 telematics votes, 186; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u138	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE IMPULSION OF RENEWABLE HYDROGEN. [[File number 162/000742]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u139	No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the impulse of renewable hydrogen. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 325, plus 12 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 249, plus 11 telematics votes, 260; abstentions, 76, plus 1 telematics vote, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u140	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u141	We continue with the motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the elimination of the compulsory use of indoor masks. The vote was taken on the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 184 plus 3 telematics votes, 187; 91 plus 3 telematics votes, 94; abstentions, 57 plus 6 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u142	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO SATISFACTURE THE APPLICATIONS OF THE SPANISH TRANSPORTISTS. [[File number 173/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u143	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to meet the demands of Spanish carriers. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 12 telematics votes, 342; 140 plus 4 telematics votes, 144; 181 plus 7 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 9 plus 1 telematics vote, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u144	Point 1 is therefore rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; 149 plus 5 telematics votes, 154; 181 plus 7 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u145	Point 2 is therefore rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 54 plus 1 telematics vote, 55; against, 277 plus 11 telematics votes, 288.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u146	Point 3 is therefore rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; against, 183 plus 7 telematics votes, 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u147	Point 4 is therefore rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; against, 183 plus 7 telematics votes, 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u148	Point 5 is therefore rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; against, 182 plus 7 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u149	Point 6 is therefore rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; against, 183 plus 7 telematics votes, 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u150	Point 7 is therefore rejected. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 149 plus 5 telematics votes, 154; against, 182 plus 7 telematics votes, 189.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u151	Point 8 is therefore rejected. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 55 plus 1 telematics vote, 56; against, 182 plus 8 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 94 plus 3 telematics votes, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u152	Point 9 is therefore rejected. Point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 votes, plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 140 plus 4 telematics votes, 144; against, 190 plus 8 telematics votes, 198; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u153	Point 10 is therefore rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the Government's plan for the economy before the current geopolitical situation. [[File number 173/000137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u154	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's plan for the economy in the face of the current geopolitical situation. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 149 plus 5 telematics votes, 154; 171 plus 7 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u155	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, in order for the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to report on the demands of the calls for the 20M event, the Government's response to the same, the planned actions to address the crisis affecting the primary sector and the whole of the agri-food system, exacerbated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the destabilization of international markets in raw materials, and the impact on the Spanish agri-food system. [[File number. 173/000138]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u156	Motion for an urgent call by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress for the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to report on the demands of the callers for the 20-M demonstration, the Government's response to them, the actions planned to deal with the crisis facing the primary sector and the entire agri-food system, aggravated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the destabilisation of international markets in raw materials, and the impact on the Spanish agri-food system. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematic votes, 344; in favour, 98 plus 4 telematic votes, 102; against, 175 plus 7 telematic votes, 182; abstentions, 59 plus 1 telematic vote, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u157	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u158	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 4/2022 of 15 March, adopting urgent measures in support of the agricultural sector due to drought. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 307 votes in favour, 319 votes against, 1 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u159	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 325 in favour, 337 in favour, 1 against, 6 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u160	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u161	Opinions of committees of inquiry. Vote on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry into the Management of Vaccines and the Vaccination Plan in Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 162 plus 7 telematics votes, 169; 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u162	The opinion of the Committee of Inquiry was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u163	Senate amendments. Draft Law on Contaminated Wastes and Soils for a Circular Economy. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to the index, to the second preambular paragraph I, and to articles 75 (a)3 and (g)2 and 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 185 plus 8 telematics votes, 193; 52 plus 1 telematics vote, 53; abstentions, 95 plus 3 telematics votes, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u164	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the sixth preambular paragraph XV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 180 plus 7 telematics votes, 187; against, 56 plus 1 telematics votes, 57; abstentions, 96 plus 4 telematics votes,100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u165	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the eighth and ninth preambular paragraphs XV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 192 in favour, 8 in favour, 200 in favour, 1 against, 139 in favour, 4 in favour, 143 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u166	The amendments were therefore adopted. Remaining amendments to paragraph XV of the preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 192 plus 8 telematics votes, 200; 54 plus 1 telematics votes, 55; abstentions, 86 plus 3 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u167	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 2 as regards the amendment of points (i), (c) and (a). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 190 plus 8 telematics votes, 198; 138 plus 4 telematics votes, 142; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u168	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 2 as regards the amendment of points (a) and (b). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 275 plus 11 telematics votes, 286; against, 1; abstentions, 56 plus 1 telematics vote, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u169	The amendments were therefore adopted. Rest of amendments to Article 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 270 plus 11 telematics votes, 281; abstentions 62 plus 1 telematics vote, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u170	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 13, as regards paragraph 2(e). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 183 plus 7 telematics votes, 190; against 60 plus 2 telematics votes, 62; 89 abstentions plus 3 telematics votes, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u171	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 13, as regards paragraph 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 265 plus 11 telematics votes, 276; 15; abstentions, 52 plus 1 telematics vote, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u172	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 15 as regards paragraphs 1 and 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 182 plus 8 telematics votes, 190; 56 plus 1 telematics votes, 57; abstentions, 94 plus 3 telematics votes, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u173	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 15, as regards paragraph 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 267 plus 11 telematics votes, 278; abstentions, 65 plus 1 telematics vote, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u174	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 16.2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 305 votes in favour, 317 votes against, 13 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u175	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 18, as regards paragraph 1(i). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 98 plus 3 telematics votes, 101; against, 173 plus 7 telematics votes, 180; abstentions 61 plus 2 telematics votes, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u176	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to Article 18, paragraphs 1(k), 2 and 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 271 plus 11 telematics votes, 282; against, 54 plus 1 telematics vote, 55; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u177	The amendments were therefore adopted. Rest of amendments to Article 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 279 in favour, 11 in favour, 290 in favour, 1 against, 52 in favour, 1 in favour, 53 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u178	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 25, as regards paragraph 2(b). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematic votes, 344; in favour, 30 plus 1 telematic vote, 31; against, 290 plus 10 telematic votes, 300; abstentions, 12 plus 1 telematic vote, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u179	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendment to Article 25, adding a sentence to the last paragraph of the Article. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 178 plus 7 telematics votes, 185; 146 plus 4 telematics votes, 150; abstentions, 8 plus 1 telematics, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u180	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 27.3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 312 plus 12 telematics votes, 324; against, 15; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u181	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 28.4, with regard to the phrase 'priorising as far as possible the use of compost against digested compost'. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 177 plus 7 telematics votes, 184; against, 51 plus 1 telematics vote, 52; abstentions, 104 plus 4 telematics votes, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u182	The amendments were therefore adopted. Remaining amendments to Article 28.4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 34; 202 plus 8 telematics votes, 210; abstentions, 96 plus 4 telematics, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u183	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to Article 31(6) and (7). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 251 in favour, 11 in favour, 262 in favour, 8 in favour, 73 in favour, 1 in favour, 74 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u184	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to article 36.1 (d). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 128 plus 4 telematics votes, 132; 195 plus 8 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u185	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to Article 42.2 and Annex II. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 votes, plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 251 plus 11 telematics votes, 262; against, 52 plus 1 telematics vote, 53; abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u186	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 43.1, as regards point (a)(1) The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 12 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 168 plus 7 telematics votes, 175; against, 161 plus 5 telematics votes, 166; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u187	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 43.1, as regards point (c). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 254 plus 11 telematics votes, 265; 62 plus 1 telematics vote, 63; abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u188	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to article 52. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 167 plus 8 telematics votes, 175; against, 75 plus 1 telematics vote, 76; abstentions, 90 plus 3 telematics votes, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u189	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 57(2) and (3). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 280 in favour, 11 in favour, 291 in favour, 52 in favour, 1 in favour, 53 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u190	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 57 concerning the introduction of a paragraph 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 264 plus 11 telematics votes, 275; against, 15; abstentions, 53 plus 1 telematics, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u191	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 58 as regards paragraph 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 169 plus 8 telematics votes, 177; against, 62 plus 1 telematics vote, 63; abstentions, 101 plus 3 telematics votes, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u192	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 58, as regards paragraph 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 343 in favour, 269 in favour, 11 in favour, 280 in favour, 60 in favour, 1 in favour, 61 in favour, abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u193	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 68 as regards paragraphs 1(a) and 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 280 in favour, 11 in favour, 291 in favour, 52 in favour, 1 in favour, 53 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u194	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 68 as regards paragraph 1(c). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 184 plus 8 telematics votes, 192; against, 148 plus 4 telematics votes, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u195	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Articles 81(1)(e) and 1(g)(2) The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 188 plus 8 telematics votes, 196; against, 144 plus 4 telematics votes, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u196	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to Article 82.10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 122 plus 4 telematics votes, 126; 207 plus 8 telematics votes, 215; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u197	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to article 97. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 123 plus 4 telematics votes, 127; 206 plus 8 telematics votes, 214; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u198	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to Article 108, as regards paragraphs 2(v) and 31(d). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 279 in favour, 11 in favour, 290 in favour, 53 in favour and one in favour, 54 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u199	The amendments were therefore adopted. Rest of amendments to Rule 108. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 127 plus 4 telematics votes, 131; 195 plus 8 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u200	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to article 112. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 124 plus 4 telematics votes, 128; 198 plus 8 telematics votes, 206; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u201	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to the third additional provision as regards paragraph 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 by telephone, 344; in favour, 280 plus 11 by telephone, 291; abstentions, 52 plus 1 by telephone, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u202	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the third additional provision as regards paragraph 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 127 plus 4 telematics votes, 131; 145 plus 7 telematics votes, 152; abstentions, 60 plus 1 telematics vote, 61.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u203	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendments to the seventeenth additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 343 in favour, 279 in favour, 11 in favour, 290 in favour, 1 against, 51 in favour, 1 in favour, 52 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u204	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the additional provision nineteenth. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 279 plus 11 telematics votes, 290; 52 plus 1 telematics vote, 53; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u205	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to additional provision 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 246 plus 11 telematics votes, 257; against, 13; abstentions, 73 plus 1 telematics vote, 74.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u206	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the 21st additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 183 plus 7 telematics votes, 190; 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u207	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the twenty-second additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 176 plus 7 telematics votes, 183; against, 56 plus 1 telematics vote, 57; abstentions, 100 plus 4 telematics votes, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u208	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the eighth transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 184 plus 7 telematics votes, 191; 147 plus 5 telematics votes, 152; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u209	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the 11th transitional provision and the 11th final provision, the former first final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 by telephone, 344; in favour, 280 plus 11 by telephone, 291; abstentions, 52 plus 1 by telephone, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u210	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the derogating provisions and the second final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 176 plus 7 telematics votes, 183; 152 plus 5 telematics votes, 157; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u211	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the third final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 168 plus 5 telematics votes, 173; 160 plus 7 telematics votes, 167; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u212	The amendments were therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] Amendments to the fourth final provision, former third final provision, as regards paragraph 2k). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 165 plus 8 telematics votes, 173; against, 70 plus 1 telematics vote, 71; abstentions, 97 plus 3 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u213	The amendments were therefore adopted. Remaining amendments to the fourth final provision, former third final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 343 in favour, 255 in favour, 11 in favour, 266 in favour, 3 in favour, 73 in favour, 1 in favour, 74 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u214	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendments to the eighth final provision, former seventh final provision, of deletion of its content. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 183 plus 8 telematics votes, 191; against, 57 plus 1 telematics vote, 58; abstentions, 92 plus 3 telematics votes, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u215	The amendments were adopted. [[Rumors]] I'd appreciate it, please, a little silence. The remainder of the amendments to the eighth final provision, former seventh final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 343 in favour, 273 in favour, 11 in favour, 284 in favour, 1 against, 57 in favour, 1 in favour, 58 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u216	The amendments were therefore adopted. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; 270 plus 11 telematics votes, 281; 51 plus 1 telematics vote, 52; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u217	The amendments were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u218	Declaration on the general account of the State. Vote on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the declaration on the general account of the State for the financial year 2019 and the resolution adopted by that Committee. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 12 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 253 plus 11 telematics votes, 264; against, 14; abstentions, 65 plus 1 telematics vote, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-31-CD220331.u219	The opinion and resolution of the Joint Committee were therefore adopted. The meeting rose. It was two and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
