ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u2	Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, I ask Mrs María Fernández Pérez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u3	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u4	In place of Ms. Macarena Olona Choclán, she asked Don Onofre Miralles Martín if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u5	Spain, yes, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u6	Dona María Fernández Pérez and Don Onofre Miralles Martín have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the point concerning the Government's communication for the general policy debate on the state of the nation. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome to these General Courts the autonomous presidents whom I see accompanying us in this very important debate and also the representatives of the trade unions and social partners who have done so much during these two and a half years of pandemic for our country. Thank you for being present in this debate on the state of the nation - a very important moment in our country's parliamentary life - which was held for the first time in the history of our democracy in September 1983. I would also like to welcome the senators, who also belong to the General Courts, to this debate. He said that the first debate on the state of the nation was held in September 1983, and at that time our country was a weak democracy with an economy also very fragile and with little international weight. Today, forty years later, we are the fourth economy of the European Union, we belong to the club of the most consolidated democracies in the world, we play a leading role in European construction and we show our allies, as we did during the last NATO Summit, what really is Spain: a solvent, solidarity, modern and committed to peace. When you look back, it's easy to make the mistake of thinking that this spectacular progress was inevitable and that Spain was called upon to follow the path of development that other European countries followed before us, but it wasn't like that, there was nothing written, everything was in the air, and those of sufficient age or memory know that in those decades there were also setbacks and decisive moments in which Spain was about to crumble. But it did not, Spain overcome all the adversities - an attempt of coup d'état, terrorism and the various economic crises - imposed itself, ladies and gentlemen, on all the obstacles and prospered at a rate that few countries could equal at that time, and it did so - this is important - because, despite all the discrepancies, all the fears and all the stumbles, the Spaniards never lost confidence in ourselves. The Spaniards have known how to be together when the problems have threatened our coexistence since the advent of democracy. Today history summons us again and does so with adversaries and adversities typical of an age we thought had already passed. Tanks march back on Europe, inflation returns to two digits and uncertainty returns to the homes of a Spain, a Europe and a world that fortunately began to overcome the worst pandemic in the last hundred years. I would like to tell the citizens that I am fully aware of the daily difficulties of most people; I know that the wage is getting worse, that it costs to arrive at the end of the month and that the shopping basket is more expensive; I know that the Spaniards are leaving their skin to get ahead of their families, their businesses and their jobs; I know that the price escalation is making it even more difficult what was already difficult - to pay rent or the mortgage of a flat, to have children and to take care of them, to start or maintain a business and to save for any unforeseen situation - and I know that, because of inflation, many of our citizens are having to postpone future projects that have already been stopped for a long time. I know that and I take care of it because we have been carrying more than two years of great personal, family and economic sacrifices and because, most seriously, we have suffered the irreparable loss of thousands of human lives as a result of the COVID, the lives of people we needed, wanted and missed every day, lives that we cannot forget while we live. [[Applauds]] And now, to all this suffering, a man, Vladimir Putin, has ruthlessly added the disaster of war. Therefore, I understand the anguish, frustration and anger of all, because it is also mine, and I take care of the mood of the people. Again a wretched pile of events has punished us and, again, it is up to us to gather and fight together against adversity. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first debate on the state of the nation in more than one light, the last one was held in 2015, and many things have changed since then. They will allow me the joke: The judiciary has not changed since 2011 as a result of the blockade of the main opposition party. [[Applauds]] Many things have changed since then. Under normal circumstances, this would be the ideal opportunity to explain to citizens the economic and social measures we have taken in recent years. That is what I would like to do, and that is what any ruler would do under normal circumstances, because, despite the mistakes that we have made in this very rough period and far above the misadjustments that have been expressed in the first coalition government of the recent history of our democracy, the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that we have made indisputable progress. In just two and a half years, this Executive has responded to the worst pandemic of the last century in the history of humanity; it has had to face natural adversities such as the volcano of the island of La Palma and, at the same time, it has promoted an agenda of modernization of our country. I am convinced that when the thick fog caused by Putin's pandemic and war in Ukraine is cleared, we will be more aware of that. I also know that the current conditions are not normal, that now that is in the background for citizenship - because, when you suffer a serious illness in one part of your body, you do not want to hear about how healthy the rest of you have -, that the Spaniards do not want to hear about what is going well or what we have done well, what they want us to focus on what is wrong and to explain to them, above all, what measures we are taking to solve the problems and that is, ladies and gentlemen, what I am going to do today. I will tell you about the present and the future, not the past, and I will do so with the honesty that a free and mature society, such as Spanish society, claims and deserves. And I am not going to go by the branches: the great challenge that Spain has today is called inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, inflation as high as we suffer is a serious disease in our economy because it impoverishes everyone and because it affects especially the most vulnerable groups. Bills go off, savings lose value, and it costs more and more, as I said before, to get to the end of the month. We do not need to tell the Spaniards and the Spanish the terrible effects of this inflation triggered because they know them as well as we do, but it is important that we share a good diagnosis about what are the causes of this so uncontrolled rise in prices, because without a certain and clear diagnosis it will always be difficult to treat it. Our citizens have two options, they must choose what they believe in: in the diagnosis of the healer or in the diagnosis of specialist doctors. [[Rumors]] The healer does not have scientific knowledge, nor does he have data, nor does he intend to cure the disease, but to benefit from it. The healer tells us that inflation is the fault of the Government, that it has been caused by the Government on the basis of raising the interprofessional minimum wage or encouraging renewable energies and that this would not have happened with another Government. This diagnosis will prove convincing to some because it is simple and because it comes to reaffirm well-rooted ideological prejudices in our country, especially in some sectors, and very propagated by powerful media speakers such as, for example, that raising the interprofessional minimum wage damages the progress of the economy and job creation, that the impulse to renewable energies is contrary to prosperity, or that progressive governments - left governments - do not manage the economy well, and are distracted in unnecessary things, especially in times of crisis, such as improving the working life and labour rights of our workers or promoting real and effective equality between men and women. But the truth is that there is not a single international or national institution would be not a single empirical study that endorses the theses of the healer. If our citizens think this for a moment, they will realise how absurd this thesis is, because, if the current inflation is the fault of the Spanish Government, why are there eight countries in the euro area and more than sixty-five countries in the world that are now experiencing higher inflation than the Spanish one? And if the government so badly manages the energy crisis, why are we, together with Portugal, one of the countries of the European Union with the lowest wholesale electricity prices in the entire European Union? [[shows a graph]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what the specialist doctors of the economy tell us and what we are also told by most studies of the technical agencies is that the outgrowth of prices has been caused by the chaining of two unique international disturbances in recent history: the first, the pandemic and, the second, the Putin war in Ukraine. We will all remember how the pandemic forced us to lock ourselves in our homes and stop our economic activity at once for weeks. What did this do? This has meant that many families will save more than usual and will thus end the confinement of those same families from Spain, Europe and the rest of the world have started to consume, which also allowed a revival of our economy. The problem is that there were sectors, both inside and outside our country, that were not prepared to meet that sudden demand. We are talking about factories, mines, ports and commercial networks that had stopped abruptly as a result of the confinements around the world and to which it was difficult for them to resume their activity at the pace demanded by demand, especially because many were in countries that took a while to recover normality - let us remember that China has recently re-contained millions of human beings - or in countries that are still immunizing - and I am not saying with the booster doses, but with the first doses that we, fortunately, already have in our body - to recover it. This problem was joined by the fact that, as the pandemic also changed our lifestyle and purchasing habits, we started to demand more products than before; we started spending more on food; we started to consume more electricity and we started to reform our homes, and the truth is that many production chains were not able to meet this sudden increase in demand. All these distortions caused the value chains in the world to begin to accumulate problems and delays, and our citizens - during those months or even now - have seen them and suffered them: difficulty in obtaining certain materials and products that come from outside like, for example, chips; collapsed ports with goods waiting to be distributed - let us remember what has happened a few weeks ago in the port of Shanghai - or the long waiting lists to be made with a washing machine, a car or a bicycle. The shortage caused prices to rise at the same time that energy costs were also rising by the extra increase in demand throughout the world, an even higher energy price increase - now we know - by the preparations for the war in Putin, who a year ago - and I also said this in this rostrum - reduced Russian gas reserves in Europe to a historical minimum. And so, ladies and gentlemen, prices began to rise all over the West in the middle of 2021. Simply, so that we have a picture of what has been the explosive evolution of prices over the past few months, I tell you that Spanish inflation rose from 0.5% at the beginning of 2021, to 6.5% at the end of 2021, while European inflation reached 5.3%. In this very unusual and delicate situation we were when on February 24, 2022 Putin invaded Ukraine and started a war that has already displaced more than 12 million human beings from his home. To give us an idea of the magnitude of the tragedy in Europe, there are more millions of displaced people than those displaced from France throughout the Second World War. The outbreak of this conflict has rapidly aggravated the problem of inflation in the West because of the enormous importance that Russia and also Ukraine have in the world supply of gas and oil, but also cereals and grains. I only give a data so that citizens know exactly what the scale of the challenge ahead is: before the conflict, Russia was the world's largest oil exporter and the world's third largest oil producer behind the United States and Saudi Arabia. To give us an idea of the impact of this whole war and the sanctions on our European economy, Russian natural gas accounted for 45% of total gas imports in 2021 and almost 40% of European Union demand. Only one country, Russia: 45 % of imports and 40 % of demand in the European Union as a whole. As far as agricultural markets are concerned, Russia and Ukraine have come to supply a third of the world's wheat, 20% of maize and 80% of sunflower oil together. In just over four months, I repeat, in four months, as a result of all these disturbances, the price of oil has increased by 13 % on international markets, that of gas by 100 %, that of wheat and maize by almost 45 % and that of rice by 24 %. And due to the double impact of energy and food, Spanish inflation has risen from 6% to 10% and European inflation to 9%. What do I mean by all this, ladies and gentlemen? That, as you can see, inflation is not an exclusive endemic evil of our country, but a problem that is affecting the whole planet and, in fact, the data indicate that inflation has increased sharply in 75% of the developed economies. For an idea to be made, Spain - it appears in red - is one of the countries with high inflation - also the rest - but far from the inflation that other countries of European economies are having. [[shows a graph]] Ladies and gentlemen, the war has so much responsibility in this price spiral that a detailed analysis of the components of the shopping basket, both from Spain and Europe, tells us that only energy and basic food explain the bulk of inflation in recent months. While in Spain this percentage is 62% - the European average is 55% - in Italy it is 58%, in the Netherlands and Germany 50% and in France 46%. One might ask why Spain is 62% while the European average is 55%. Our country is particularly sensitive to the rise in energy prices, among other things because Spanish households spend a greater proportion of our income on energy products, and the same is true of our companies, which are more intensive than other Europeans in the use of energy. This is the main reason why, in the face of this energy-enhancing scenario, inflation in our country is somewhat higher than that of our European neighbours. I would also like to move citizens to say that inflation is an international phenomenon caused by the pandemic and by war, not to throw balloons out, but to make an honest and realistic diagnosis of the disease we are suffering in Europe. And it is essential that we all know, but not to relieve anyone of any responsibility. The Government is prepared to assume its full responsibility and to implement the best solutions to the problem of inflation, but we are not prepared to implement false, misleading and, even less, unfair solutions. [[Applauds]] In the financial crisis of the last decade, the Spaniards suffered precariousness, uncertainty and despair for the greed of a few and for the blindness of a supposed economic orthodoxy that unfortunately resurrects in the conservative cenacles that demand sacrifices for everyone less for the minority they represent. What I would like to transfer to our fellow citizens is that today we suffer for other reasons. We suffer because we live the aftermath of a confinement with which we save millions of lives but which, of course, have its economic repercussions and because we live the consequences of the Putin war and the sanctions that the international community applies to Russia for violating international legality. A legitimate question that our citizens can ask is why Spain takes advantage of this conflict if we are assuming this cost in the form of an increase in the price of life. There are those who think that Spain should not take sides in this conflict, as there were those who thought that we should not have put the health of the citizenry before the economy during the worst months of the pandemic. Those who think in this way forget three fundamental issues that I would like to share with all our citizens. First, they forget that not participating in the war effort would not free us from the economic consequences of the war, on the contrary, it will isolate us from the rest of the countries with which we share values, principles and interests and, consequently, it would force us to capture them alone. Because, let us think, if we do not accept the request of the Poles, Romanians, Estonians, Germans and Latvians - to cite some examples of countries threatened as a result of Putin's invasion in Ukraine - when they ask us for solidarity to help them deter the aggressor, what legitimacy would we have to ask for solidarity when we need it? [[Applauds]] The President of the European Commission said in Spain a year ago that our country was the heart of Europe for the exemplary repatriation of Afghans and Afghans fleeing the Taliban. I then replied to the President of the European Commission that Spain is European not out of interest, but out of conviction. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to transfer the citizens that defending Europe is the best strategy to defend Spain. Secondly, let us not forget that Spain is a pacifist country. Our history and our way of living are peaceful and we go out against any violation of international legality, whether it's called Iraq or Ukraine. The International Order no longer responds - I have been heard on some other occasion - to the logic of the division between communists and capitalists as in the Cold War, but to the clash between those who respect and those who violate international legality and human rights. And one of the fundamental principles being violated by Putin in Ukraine is one of the most important pillars of the rules-based international order after the Second World War: respect for territorial integrity and national sovereignty and, therefore, the right to decide freely and without coercion the future of each society. Ladies and gentlemen, peace does not come alone, it must be achieved and we cannot be allowed to be snatched from it. Thirdly, I would also like to share with your ladies and gentlemen that we must not forget that there can be no equidistance between the aggressor and the aggressor. Spain will always contribute to the peaceful resolution of conflicts through diplomatic channels, it has always done so and also during this war, but, in the meantime, Spain and Europe have a moral duty to the Ukrainian people. If we all tolerate what they have done to Ukraine today, each of us and each of us will always be at the mercy of the fact that the same can happen to us. In addition, I would like to remind the Spaniards that if there is a population in the world and in Europe that undoubtedly has a lot to say, that thinking and remembering in this war in Ukraine is the Spanish one. I want to say to all Spaniards that right now there are Europeans - military, but also civilians, women and men like us - fighting and dying on the streets of Ukraine. Although our media are barely engaged in war, or even us, in our family conversations and in our conversations at the bar and in the offices, let's no longer talk about it as we talked about it at first, the war continues. And what Ukrainians are doing is fighting for their nation, but also for us; they are fighting for the destiny of the Ukrainian people, but also for the destiny of Europe and they are doing so to defend their sovereignty and their rights, but also our sovereignty and our rights, our security and our democracy. It is precisely for this reason that the other European nations have a moral duty to fulfil. Moreover, this is something that the Spaniards, if we look back in our democratic history and in our memory, better than anyone else we should understand. Almost 90 years ago, the decision of the allied countries not to intervene in Spain condemned our country to four decades of delay, ostracism and fascist dictatorship. Destiny gives us today the possibility of not making that mistake in Ukraine that others made with Spain. It gives us the opportunity to be on the right side of the story, and that's where we are and where we will be. [[Applauds]] Our country has already donated more than 50 million vaccines against COVID-19 - we are among the countries that have donated the most vaccines from the international community as a whole - because we are a solidarity country and because we know that the battle against the pandemic is won or lost globally. The same is true of Putin's beating in Ukraine. We must be supportive, help the aggressor and condemn and isolate the aggressor. The Ukrainians are on the front using rifles and grenades to stop the invading hit and we from here, from Spain, as well as our brothers from other parts of Europe, must support their sacrifice, although in a different way, with the logistical support that we provide to the Ukrainian people and, no doubt, also imposing strong economic sanctions on Putin, sanctions that are already seriously damaging the Russian economy and that are, today, the main tool we have to put an end to the war without contributing to a war escalation. The price we have to pay for being part of this international community and, above all, of this Europe that defends its values and its democracy and the price we have to pay for being part of this defense against authoritarianism is the economic uncertainty our fellow citizens are experiencing and inflation. The war front in Ukraine is the barrier to freedom, human rights and progress. How are we not going to defend ourselves? The question that the Spaniards can ask - and I am willing to answer - is what will happen in the coming months. The only truth is that no one has a safe answer because, ladies and gentlemen, there are many unknowns. The main thing is that everything will depend on how long this war lasts and, therefore, we hope that diplomacy will soon replace the bombs. It will also depend on the evolution of very important economies in the global economy, such as China, hostage to its strategy vis-à-vis COVID-19, as well as on the good or bad progress of the US economy or of the European economy and, above all, of the German economy. It will also depend, ladies and gentlemen, on whether Putin decides to cut off the gas supply to Europe or not and on how effective the measures taken at global, European and national level are to prevent the rise in prices from leading to an inflationary spiral. We cannot rule out anything, let alone that Putin decides to cut off Europe's gas as another weapon of war. Europe can therefore suffer from energy restrictions, and this, of course, will have an impact on the Spanish and European economy. And the question that our citizens can ask themselves is how Spain can be affected in this case. The good news is that Spain is less dependent on Russian gas than others. Thanks to our commitment to energy independence, especially renewable energy and the diversification of our gas supply sources, our country is much better prepared than others, but that does not mean that this situation will not affect us, because it can do so in at least two different ways. On the one hand, the slowdown of economies such as the United States and Germany, coupled with the maintenance of the sanctions that we are imposing on Putin until the end of the war, will make the Spanish economy grow less than expected in the coming months. But, today, we must also recognize that Spain is creating jobs more than ever, quality jobs, the strategic sectors of our country are already operating almost at full performance and the European funds are already having a very positive real impact on our economy. As you can see, I don't ride around. I want to make it clear to the people and I am not going to hide the risks nor am I going to adorn the situation so complex that they are going through Europe and Spain, but I am not going to give up on a baseless catastrophe either. He invited the Spaniards to distrust those who offer false remedies for real diseases. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the war will force us to further boost energy independence. We will have to strengthen the firm commitment to renewables and self-consumption and we will have to improve energy efficiency and savings. It will have to be done because, although our country, Spain, has a diversified supply less dependent on Russia, our European brothers, no; and if Putin cuts the gas tap, we must also respond together to this aggression. We are not Europeans because we receive funds from Europe. We are Europeans because we share values with Europe and want to share our future with Europe. We are Europeans to the hard and the mature. This crisis once again gives us the opportunity to demonstrate as Spaniards to Europe that we are not only here to be helped, as we were during the pandemic; we also want and can help when Europe needs Spain, because Spain is now a fundamental country of the Union. That is why we are asking, for example, to unlock energy interconnections with the rest of Europe to help alleviate the consequences of Europe's great dependence on Russian imports. It is an opportunity to show the world that the Spanish are Europeanists not out of interest, but out of conviction, because we believe that solidarity between countries is the best way to progress and to prevent the mistakes and horrors of the past from being repeated. That is why I want to be clear: we will have to adopt energy saving measures and I want to be even more precise: we will have to promote measures such as increasing teleworking, promoting public transport, lowering the temperature of our heating or raising it in the air conditioning. Nothing against our way of life, but actions that allow us to defend our values and our way of life when attacked. We can do it and we're gonna do it. [[Applauds]] This applies to the consequences of war on energy supply. As far as inflation is concerned, I would like to tell our fellow citizens that the situation will be resolved overnight, that there is an instant and magical solution, but it is not true. No one can end this problem overnight, no president, no government, of course, no opposition. Let's pay attention to specialist doctors to treat this disease, as we also did to tackle the COVID pandemic. They do not believe those who claim that the inflationary scale affecting our economy, like most European and world economies, can be resolved from a pen. There is nothing to do, then?, you can ask the citizens. Yes, of course we do; we have to do a lot of things and we are going to go for them all from the Spanish Government. We must begin by knowing our strengths to rely on them; for example, the power of our economy, whose most visible exponent, more realistic for our fellow citizens, is job creation. The strength of investment, the competitiveness of our exports, the pull of a sector - tourism - that was strongly threatened as a result of COVID. There are other factors, along with these, that can help, such as the gradual recovery that we are already seeing from the supply chains that started in Asia, the response that the European Central Bank is giving, and also important European and national measures that we have launched thanks to the joint leadership of Portugal and Spain, such as the gas ceiling, that will help to cool prices. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the main international bodies express themselves with the caution of the scientist and, on average, calculate - I repeat, on average - that Spain will end the year with an inflation of around 6.5%. Although, I insist, these projections must be taken with great caution. As I said before, everything will depend on how the war evolves. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can predict the future with certainty, but that does not mean that we just have to wait for that future to come. We haven't done it before with the pandemic, nor are we going to do it now with inflation. We act forcefully when we have scientific evidence in front of the COVID and we push the vaccination with all the forces. More than 90% of our fellow citizens are already vaccinated with the full schedule. Now, it is up to us to do the same in the face of inflation, and my commitment is strong: we will go for all to defend the interests of the social majority. I'm going to leave my skin to defend the middle class and working class of our country. [[Strong applause]] I am the president of a country accustomed to fighting adversity and who knows the secret of success: unity, resistance and hope. In particular, there are six axes of action that we are determined to push forward. First, we will continue to support Ukraine in its struggle for freedom. We advocate diplomatically, but as he arrives, we will continue to help Ukraine and we will continue to punish Putin for this conflict to end as soon as possible, for Ukraine to regain its sovereignty and territorial integrity and for Europe to live securely. Secondly, we are going to go for everyone to protect our citizens, our businesses and our industry. Look at this graph: since prices started to rise in September last year, Spain has mobilised around EUR 30 billion, or 2.3% of our gross domestic product. We are, together with Greece and Lithuania, the country that has spent the most resources for this part for a year to combat inflation and its effects on the working middle class of our country and the most vulnerable groups. We have also made historic progress in Brussels, such as the recent Iberian exception to limit the price of gas, something we estimate will reduce the bill for light paid by households on the regulated market by between 15 and 20 % over the course of this year. But what is more important: this measure is going to be a protective barrier for a whole year in the face of potential additional gas price rises from hypothetical cuts and more than predictable that Putin can inflict on the European economy. And we have achieved something very important and you have heard me say every time I have had the opportunity to appear before you, and that is that the European Commission is going to present a profound reform of the electricity market this autumn, and this is going to have a very positive effect on households and also on Spanish companies, as well as, by extension, on European businesses and households. In short, we are leading energy change in Europe and we are doing so with other European governments with different signs. And we're gonna do more. We're doing more. The royal decree law that will be submitted in the coming days to its deliberation and also to its validation articulates a powerful package of aids to protect the working middle class and the most vulnerable groups in our country. The measures know them, we believe they will allow inflation to be contained by 3.5 points, i.e. it would not be 10% today, but almost 14% or 15% if these measures did not exist, and you know them. We are going to extend the fuel subsidy until 31 December; we are going to extend the limit on the increase in rent; we are going to deduct energy VAT from 21% to 5% on the rest of the electricity taxes, which represents a total reduction of 80% of the taxes on the receipt; the aid of EUR 200; strengthening the minimum living income; raising non-contributory pensions; extending aid to the economic sectors most affected by the situation, such as transport, the agricultural sector, the fisheries sector, the gas-intensive industries. And we're going to go beyond that. We will go for all, as I have told you before, we are already promoting public transport with unprecedented measures in our country. As you know, the Royal Decree-Law on Validation includes a 50% discount on travel allowances for nearby trains and state-owned rolling stock; Renfe, to understand us. Well, today I announce that we are going to take a step further. I would like to announce that the government is improving 100% of all multi-travel allowances for nearby, rolling and mid-distance public service trains operated by Renfe. [[Applauds]] We are going to increase from 50% to 100% bonus of all multi-travel allowances for nearby, rolling and mid-distance trains operated by Renfe. Discounts for various trips will be free from 1 September to 31 December of this year. [[A Member of Parliament: Ah, well!]] And, as you know, we are also improving 30% of urban and metropolitan transport subsidies, and we hope that the Autonomous Communities will be able to complement this enormous effort that the General Administration of the State is making up to the 50% or 60% discount. We're also going to do more about housing. We have brought to this House the first housing law of our democracy. We are limiting the increase in rents, as you know, and today I announce that we immediately unlock Operation Camp for the construction of up to 12,000 homes in the city of Madrid, 60% of which will be public housing. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, we are going to make sure that the consequences of the war are fairly, equitably, that they do not fall above all and again - as happened during the financial crisis - on the most vulnerable, so we have approved this response plan. This Government will not tolerate companies or individuals taking advantage of the crisis to accumulate more wealth at the expense of the majority, because the difficulties of the majority cannot be the joys of a minority. And that is why we are going to set up, as I would like to say to you below, a tax on the extraordinary profits of large energy companies, which will raise EUR 2 billion a year over the next two years. [[Strong applause]] An exceptional tax on large energy companies that will be in force in the years 2023 and 2024, which will affect the extraordinary profits obtained in the years 2022 and 2023 by the dominant groups in the electricity, gas and oil sectors. Similarly, I would like to announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government will approve an exceptional and temporary tax on large financial institutions which are already beginning to benefit from interest rate increases. [[Applauds]] This tax on large financial institutions will last for two years and it is estimated that we will be able to raise around EUR 1.5 billion a year. We often talk about the fallen benefits of the sky, but they are not really such; the superbneffices do not fall from the sky, they come out of the pocket of the consumers who pay the receipts. And this government is not going to allow the suffering of many to be the benefit of a few. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, we are going to continue to encourage the social partners to achieve a dividend and income pact; an agreement between workers and businesses to contain the rise in prices, to share the costs and benefits of the current crisis fairly. I believe that the Government is, honestly, doing everything in its power to alleviate the effects of inflation, firstly, with this commitment to revalue pensions in accordance with the CPI; secondly, with the commitment to continue to raise the inter-professional minimum wage - as called for by the European Social Charter - and thirdly, thanks above all to the good behaviour of our economy, the greatest collection is intended to cover the social needs generated by the war, to finance aid to households and SMEs. Notice, from January to May this year the tax revenues of the state have grown 15.5 billion euros regarding the same period last year, it is practically the same cost of the two royal decrees laws of measures to alleviate the effects of the war by 31 December this year. [[Applauds]] That is why we call on the big companies to do the same, we call on the big companies to ensure that any additional benefit from this situation is reversed in the workers and consumers who are bearing the brunt of inflation. We call on large companies to ensure that any indirect benefit from this situation does not increase either the profit accounts or the salaries of their senior managers. Look, companies are, fortunately, increasingly incorporating sustainability criteria into their management; they are demonstrating their commitment, which is called ESG - acronyms that respond in English to the words of environment, social commitment and governance. Well, this is the time to demonstrate the social commitment of large companies, it is the time to demonstrate that they are working to create value for their shareholders and also to create value for their society. This was done by many during the pandemic and now, again, society, the social majority, needs the social commitment of large companies. This government will not do as the People's Party governments did in previous crises, in the financial crisis, be weak with the strong and strong with the weak. [[Applauds]] We do not choose to rule, ladies and gentlemen, we do not choose to rule in critical situations, such as those that first generated the pandemic and now the war. But, in the midst of the worst turbulence, we are clear what the route and priorities are. We will govern to bring our country forward guided by the general interest and govern for the social majority of Spain. And when it is necessary to choose, we will be on the side of those who most need the help of the public authorities, although in doing so, of course, we are bothering the most powerful. This is my commitment, I want to be clear. We are going to go for all, because there is nothing more powerful than the collective effort of a nation. Let absolutely no one forget this premise. [[Applauds]] This Government has always defended and will always defend people on foot. We will put the economy and the state at the service of the social majority, as we did during the pandemic, with the implementation of minimum vital income, the ERTE, transfers to the self-employed, the billions of euros in aid to small and medium-sized enterprises that saved a large part of our economy, from our productive fabric at the worst moments of the pandemic. Because, moreover, it is not only a question of social justice - which is also - that the policy being pursued on the basis of equity, equality and social justice is the most effective economic policy. We have shown that the exit from the crisis with solidarity and social justice is faster and more just. I just want to share with our fellow citizens three strong facts that certify this I'm saying. Look, in 2012 the fall of 3 points in gross domestic product destroyed 519 000 jobs, i.e. 3 % of total jobs. In 2020, with a fall of not 3 points in gross domestic product but 10 points in gross domestic product, employment fell by only 1,6 %. The second fact that I would like to share with all of you to reinforce this argument that economic policy based on solidarity and social justice is not only more equitable, but also more effective, is that in the previous financial crisis it took more than ten years to recover employment levels prior to the financial crisis. On this occasion we have achieved this in only fifteen months. In two years, levels of inequality prior to the pandemic have been recovered through social protection measures. In the financial crisis it took not two years, but eleven years. The progressive response to the crisis is not only more equitable, but much more effective than the neoliberalism by which the right calls for. [[Applauds]] Fifthly, while we are giving a united and fair response to rising prices, we are going to continue to modernize our country, because every time there is a crisis Spain suffers more than the economies of our environment. The same pattern is always repeated; it is repeated because our country has severe structural deficiencies - this is what we are told by all the international organizations and all the serious agencies of our country -, deficiencies in their productive model, deficiencies in the formation of human capital, in the labor market - which we are already beginning to correct -; deficiencies that since the beginning of my presidency we are addressing with the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, with the Spain 2050 Project, with more than one hundred and fifty laws and decrees that we have adopted since January 2020, and with many more that we will adopt in the year and a half that remains of our legislature. In fact, I want to announce that this July we will continue to strengthen the National Health System. You know that we are going to stabilize more than 67 000 healthcare professionals throughout the National Health System, but I also announce that we are going to set up the State Public Health Centre to improve the management of health emergencies. [[Applauds]] We will not forget the lessons of the pandemic, we will strengthen public health in our country. [[Strong applause]] We will also strengthen our food autonomy and, therefore, announce that we will present a new and improved CAP to boost the Spanish countryside. I announce that we will continue to make progress in this energy independence with which the Government of Spain is committed to the following measures: firstly, we are allocating about 1 billion new euros so that people can buy solar plates, heat pumps and electric vehicles. Secondly, we are going to boost energy savings and efficiency in the public administration through the plan recently approved by the government, with EUR 1 billion. We will approve a new plan with 200 million euros for the deployment of self-consumption in public buildings, such as health centres, schools, sports facilities. Precisely those facilities that share part of their energy with homes, with shops in their surroundings, are going to be rewarded, which is called collective self-consumption. And we are also making an unprecedented investment to ensure that the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands are fully decarbonated territories. We are allocating EUR 700 million from the European Recovery Plan for the 100% renewable islands programme; 100% renewable, non-nuclear and non-thermal power plants. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, public education, vocational training and the University are fundamental pillars of our country and, of course, of this government. That is why I would like to announce that we are going to give a new boost - a very exciting shock - to the educational system of our children in schools by incorporating the learning of a new language. There is much talk of learning new languages, but we forget the most important of all: the language of the present and the future, which is programming and robotics. I announce that we will approve the Code School 4.0 program, so that almost 6 million students of Children's, Primary and ESO Education in Spain can develop their digital competence in a general way and, in particular, in computational thinking, programming and robotics. [[Applauds]] Spain is going through a new heat wave again. To convey the solidarity and commitment of the Government of Spain to those affected by the fires we are seeing and of which we are witnessing, again, on the Iberian peninsula during the last few days. These extreme temperatures and adverse weather events are typical of the climate emergency on the planet, and the Iberian peninsula is obviously no stranger to them. Therefore, what we are going to do is to redouble our commitments with more resources to prevent and combat fires. In this regard, I announce that we will adopt a new basic state regulatory framework for fire prevention and fire-extinguishing personnel, in collaboration with all the public administrations involved, which will enable us to be more effective in the fight against fires. [[Applauds]] I do not want to forget two very dear territories of our country, such as Ceuta and Melilla, to which we are going to allocate resources and adopt two strategic plans for the economic and social development of these two important autonomous cities of our country. Because the challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is not to get out of the crisis by the same place we enter, but to move forward and not back down. The real challenge is to come out better than what we entered into this crisis - as we also did with COVID - with an economy and a welfare state that is more prosperous, more sustainable and more resilient than before. We must face the immediate challenge, also thinking about the long term. In that sense, we must understand that digitisation, that ecological transition, that strengthening the European and Atlantic defence area are not measures that run counter to the economic prosperity or well-being of our compatriots; on the contrary, they are essential to ensure them now and in the future. That is why we make the ecological transition not just a front to adapt and mitigate the consequences of climate change on our country and to avoid an environmental catastrophe that would sink the quality of life of our children, of the generations to come. We also do so because it is the greatest opportunity that Spain has had in decades to reindustrialize, to generate new jobs in territories that so far did not have those opportunities, to guarantee the energy sovereignty that Putin is putting in question and at risk throughout Europe, and to make our country, for the first time in its history, not an energy-importing country, but a green energy-exporting country. [[Applauds]] We digitize our productive fabric because this is the only way to achieve the productivity gains needed to keep increasing wages, to reduce working hours and to create quality jobs. Both transitions, the energy transition and also digital transformation, need research, development and innovation. The University must be at the heart of the modernization of our country and, therefore, we expand the scholarship policy and drive a reduction in university fees. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days we have all seen how much and very much has been discussed about the design of scholarship policies in different administrations, and I want to be clear and firm on this issue: the Spanish Government is betting on scholarships to activate the social lift and not to perpetuate inequalities. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the commitment of the Executive, Spain today has the largest share of its history in scholarships: 2134 million euros, which will reach more than a million students in our country. But also - as I said - here we are going to go for all, so I announce that all students over the age of 16 who today enjoy a scholarship will receive a new complementary scholarship of 100 euros per month. From September to December, this scholarship will receive nearly a million students throughout Spain, because we want to ensure equal opportunities. To do this, we want to help families so that no young person is forced to leave school out of necessity. [[Strong applause]] No one has to leave their studies for economic problems in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, education, health, the green transition, digitisation are the pillars of a government that defends social justice, equal opportunities and progress every day, and our commitment is undeniable: we will make them the basis of Spain that we deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, we are increasing our investment in defence to create industry in every and every territory of our country, employment in every and every territory of our country, while ensuring that never, ever, an autocracy dares to interfere with the freedoms, democracy and material well-being of the Spanish and Europeans. To meet these ambitious challenges, we will continue to drive the recovery plan, another example of which we should be proud of as a country. It is precisely tomorrow that a year has come to pass since the European Council finally approved our plan, and we can already make a first assessment, which I sincerely believe is very positive. During the pandemic, in a very complex, very difficult situation, we were able to draw up a plan which all the European institutions, both the Council and the Commission, recognise as one of the most ambitious in reforms and also in investments of those presented by the rest of the Member States. We have created a real country plan in which not only the Spanish Government is involved, are the autonomous governments and the municipalities, which manage - let us not forget - more than 50% of these funds, and also, logically, the social partners, employers and trade unions. And we must be proud because we are, by far, the most advanced state of the European Union in the implementation of European funds, as was recently demonstrated by the approval by the European Commission of the second disbursement of EUR 12 billion, which will arrive in Spain this summer. It is about the funds - they have heard me say it many times and I too have heard it from your ladies and gentlemen - reaching 95% of our business, which is above all that of the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. Let me just give two examples of how the management and implementation of these European funds are already having such a positive impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. Firstly, one of the priorities that you know we set in the recovery plan is the digitisation of all Spanish companies, and for this the Spanish Government has launched what is called the Digital Kit programme. Well, I think this is very illustrative of the effort we are making together by companies and the General Administration of the State. One in two companies in our country with between ten and forty-nine employees has already applied for aid, and I am sure that in the coming months we will be exceeding this figure. Secondly, the call for projects for the Electric and Connected Vehicle, which has been closed with the presentation of thirteen projects, will mobilize an extraordinary amount, 12 billion euros between public investment and private investment. In these projects small and medium-sized enterprises in our country account for 55.7% of the participating entities, i.e. more than 180 small and medium-sized enterprises, as is happening with all strategic projects, which we have called PERTE, which must include large enterprises, logically, but also small and medium-sized enterprises in all the territories of our country. We are finally implementing a real industrial policy - there was no such policy with the Conservative Government - with the aim of regaining our strategic autonomy and not losing the train of the industries of the future and strengthening the sectors in which we are already leaders. And we will do so in close cooperation with the private sector; in fact, we are already doing so. And in this spirit of collaboration we have designed eleven strategic projects that we have already launched in areas such as the electric car, which I have previously commented on, but also renewable energy and green hydrogen, the aerospace sector, agro-industry, the circular economy or state-of-the-art medicine, to quote some of these strategic projects. And there are results that are already being realized and that are good for our country, such as the announcement of the construction of two mega-batteries, one in the Valencian Community, in Sagunto, and another in Extremadura, which will create thousands of jobs and will ensure a bright future for our car industry. [[Applauds]] Other important investments that show the confidence in the modernization of the Spanish economy that we are undertaking all the administrations, also with the private sector, is, for example, the investment of pharmaceuticals to set up the main center of manufacturing RNA vaccines in Spain or the announcements of large technological companies to create large digital hubs in our country. Other fruits will take a while to collect, but they will arrive. I want to highlight among them the thousands of projects already launched, the project for the production of chips and semiconductors in our country, a project that is endowed with a very important public investment, 12 billion euros, and that aims to make our country a place where one can design, process and manufacture a key element for the future of our economy. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are not content, and that is why we are going to take a step further with the adoption of laws that will further boost the modernization of our economy. As you know, we will soon pass the law on sustainable mobility, but I also announce that we will pass a new law on industry and a law on sponsorship. We are already building the future, looking forward, we are not going to stop and, therefore, I have bad news to give to those who work day by day for putting sticks on the wheels, for denying evidence and for celebrating defeatism. Despite their intense activity, know that we are not going to stop and that we are waiting for you in the future. [[Applauds]] We need to get out of this crisis stronger than we get in. Many people tell me that this government of progressive coalition has faced very hard tests - a pandemic, a volcano, adverse weather phenomena typical of the climate emergency that the planet is experiencing and now a war in Europe - and it is true, but I would like everyone to ask in their internal affairs what would have been of this country if they had ruled these other adversities. [[Rumors]] I think this is a pertinent question, ladies and gentlemen, because we have the experience of the financial crisis and we have the experience of COVID. Everyone may wonder what would happen if those in other crises, such as the financial crisis, were at the head of the country; if they were in the Government who, instead of strengthening the welfare state, weakened it by opening the doors to its privatization; if they were in the Executive who in the midst of the financial crisis promoted inequality and burdened all sacrifices on the weakest and most defenceless; if they had been in the Government who in the midst of the hardships of the majority consented unusual extremes of corruption and immorality among the managers of the economic and labour portfolios, who consented to unlawful behaviour among the highest political leaders of the Armed Forces and State security. [[applause]] [[applause]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are not stories of the past - we are seeing it again in the media over the last few days and hours - are teachings of the recent past that illustrate the disjunctives of the present. Sixthly, we will defend democracy and civil and social conquests. The recent revocation of the right of American women to decide freely when to be mothers and when not, warns us of the breadth and depth of the reactionary movement that is sweeping the world. The ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court is the result of a conservative majority and shows how much effort and time it costs to achieve social and civil conquests, and how in a sigh you can lose what you have achieved and back down a century. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is not immune to this threat, many of the achievements in rights and freedoms - the law of euthanasia, the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy, to name but a few - are being appealed to the Constitutional Court by those who have always voted against this progress. Why don't you withdraw these resources? Why are they blocking the renewal of the Constitutional Court and the General Council of the Judiciary? What interests do you have in mind? Of course, not to the social majority of Spain, which applauds all these advances in rights and freedoms. Flaco favors the Constitution and the proper functioning of our democracy. Your blockade has no justification. They do not accept the verdict of the ballot box, this is the true explanation, and what they are trying to do is to revoke civil and social conquests without the citizens having decided by their majority vote. [[Applauds]] Our response, calm but firm, will be to continue with our agenda of progress in rights and freedoms. We begin by ensuring the universality of the public health system, we pass the Rhodes law against child abuse, the law of yes is indeed to guarantee sexual freedom, the law of euthanasia, the new Mental Health Strategy, the law - also called Zerolo - on equal treatment and non-discrimination, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this Parliament will shortly pass the first law on housing in our democracy, the reform of the law on voluntary termination of pregnancy and the law guaranteeing the rights of LGBTBI people. [[Applauds]] I would also like and ask this House to support the democratic memory law, which allows us to recognize all the victims, condemn the 1936 coup and the subsequent dictatorship, and claim our best heritage, the Transition, the Amnesty Law and the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] But also in the area of democracy and civil rights we have to go further, because we want Spain to move forward. I announce that we will shortly adopt, in order to combat corruption, a law on the protection of the informant, to report such cases of corruption, a comprehensive law against trafficking in and exploitation of human beings, the law against racial discrimination, the new law on official secrets and a law to regulate the activity of lobbies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for a whole path of progress in rights, which I ask your ladies and gentlemen to continue with the definitive abolition of prostitution in our country. [[Applauds]] Because Spain always progresses, ladies and gentlemen, when there are governments of progress; no one can mention a single example of an advance in rights and freedoms that came from the hands of a right-wing government - in forty years; they have had time -; on the contrary, when they govern what we do is to back down or put Damocles spades with those resources in the Constitutional Court to the law of voluntary interruption of pregnancy or the law of euthanasia, and when they are in opposition the democratic functioning is blocked, as is happening with the renewal of constitutional bodies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity with Ukraine, protection of our compatriots against inflation, fair sharing of war and progress in the agenda of economic and social transformations that our country needs and demands. But for these efforts to work, we will need something else. First of all, we will need proposals from all of us, proposals that I undertake to study and integrate on the sole condition that they are realistic and feasible. During the pandemic, and now with the war, the Government has worked to achieve the greatest possible unity. A few months ago I proposed to the opposition to reach eleven basic consensuss for the proper functioning of our democracy, including fulfilling the obligations mandated by the Constitution, reforming Article 49 of the Magna Charter, agreeing on a common security and defence policy, not speaking ill of Spain outside, agreeing on a green energy policy and jointly adopting measures to alleviate the economic and social consequences of the war, and the case is that I have not yet received a response. [[applause]] That is why I again extend my hand to the democratic right - I repeat, to the democratic right - to reach agreements on the collective response to the effects of war and to overcome as soon as possible this anomaly that keeps our main constitutional institutions in an irregular situation. We will need dialogue and, above all, the clout of our citizens; I would like to convey to all of them the conviction that we are going to overcome this situation, just as we have already overcome others. Neither this Government nor any Government on earth can bring down this high inflation from a pen. No one can do it alone, but what I can do is to assure our fellow citizens that we will do everything and more to contain inflation, to alleviate its effects on the most vulnerable and to try to double it, both at national, European and international levels. And as long as we manage to contain prices, we will also do everything we can to continue the path of growth and job creation in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, just over two years ago I addressed our citizens from the Palace of Moncloa to announce the beginning of an unprecedented confinement in our history. In those days and months that followed them the COVIDA progressed as an unstoppable avalanche that threatened to take itself forward to the whole country, but it did not. Today, hospitalizations are controlled, although they have increased, logically, as a result of the wave of contagions that we are now suffering, but our streets are full of life and the masks barely cover our smiles. There is much talk of vaccination and science in the response to COVID, and it is true. Spain is a worldwide example of vaccination and solidarity in the donation of vaccines. However, in order to be able to overcome with reasonable success a health crisis as serious as the one we suffered with COVID, two fundamental elements were identified that characterized Spain's response to this pandemic: first, the confidence to face great challenges, and, secondly, our attachment to social justice. If the Spanish have responded as few nations in Europe or in the world to vaccinations for the trust they have in their institutions, especially in our health system and in our healthcare professionals; to them and they our eternal gratitude. [[Applauds]] And together with trust, social justice, because, unlike what has happened in other countries, if there has been social peace in Spain during the pandemic, it is because of having a welfare state that has guaranteed universal and free access to the vaccine against COVID and because there has been a more balanced sharing of the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. And with that same confidence in ourselves as a country and that same spirit of social justice in responding to any crisis we suffer, we can cope with inflation. It is often said that in times of uncertainty citizen distrust in politics grows, and listening to some of the debates that we have had throughout this legislature reasons do not lack to distrust, because over these two and a half years if there has been something left they have been insults and noise; a cry that if it does something it is to undermine coexistence and feed the reactionaries who never believed in democracy. However, I would like to remind the citizens that, despite the well-deserved criticisms, this Congress of Deputies has adopted measures that have saved lives, businesses and jobs; that in this, its national Parliament, social and civil conquests have taken place that have made our country a better country; that with our successes and our mistakes its public representatives have - we have - tried to support the immense effort that our compatriots have made to overcome all adversities. And if it has been done it is because its public representatives do not live from behind to reality, but they know - we know - their problems because we have relatives, friends or acquaintances who suffer their own sufferings and anguishes. [[Applauds]] I would like to remind the Spaniards that, despite the noise and the high decibels of parliamentary debates, in this same House, alarm states were adopted that saved hundreds of thousands of lives during the worst of the pandemic; that real decrees were validated laws to put in place ICO credits, ERTEs, direct aids to the self-employed, social protection policy and support for our health system; that real decrees laws that protected and saved lives, jobs and businesses; that laws that have reduced job insecurity, that have protected their pensions, that have made possible a dignified end to life, that have promoted the education and vocational training of our young people, that have promoted equality between men and women; useful laws to deal with climate change, to protect our children, to promote culture, to protect the most vulnerable with the creation of minimum living income, to strengthen our public services and to give stability to their professionals. I could continue and continue to list progress approved jointly between the Executive and the Legislature during these difficult and complex years, progress that have brought something to our country has been dignity, making Spain a better and more prepared country in the face of adversities. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank the representatives of civil society who are with us, social actors, collectives, NGOs and sectoral organisations for their willingness to reach agreements, to agree, because on this will many measures have been taken by the Government and many important laws, such as the pension law or the labour law, and something similar must be said about our autonomous and local State. No one can be doubted after the pandemic that co-governance is an unbeatable tool for providing effective and equitable responses to the problems of citizenship. Title VIII of our Constitution works, and thanks to it we will be able to work more effectively and equitably against the depopulation of some areas of our country, returning basic services to the rural world, decentralizing some newly created agencies, such as the National Energy Research and Storage Centre in Cáceres, or the Social Security Data Processing Centre in Soria. I have said this before, Title VIII of our Constitution works, and with tesón and dialogue we will continue to work for the reunion between Catalans and for reducing the emotional gap that separates those Catalans who want to separate from Spain from the rest of their Spanish brothers. There is no nobler task in politics than working for coexistence. Finally, I would like to say to our citizens that democracy works. That despite its imperfections, its endless and sometimes - often, unfortunately - bronchus debates, democracy is the most formidable instrument of progress and cohesion in our societies. And at this point I would like to thank the parliamentary groups who supported all the progress we have made in these difficult years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in just twenty months - twenty-six months to be more precise - Spain has regained economic growth and exceeded the levels of employment it had before the pandemic broke out, and has managed to completely correct the inequality in wage income that it caused. The future is uncertain, it's true. We pass through an area of turbulence is evident. We must know the risks, face them with warmth and hope, not with fear. The same streets that we live deserted in the pandemic today overflow the joy and vitality that our compatriots deserve and need. Look, every time society faces a difficulty or crisis, they always appear the same: the traffickers of fear, the prophets of catastrophe, who claim that everything is wrong, that the country sinks; they do not analyze problems, but distort them to spread fear and thus trade with their false solutions. A great American president, a great social reformer, warned him almost a century ago. He said the following: We should only be afraid of fear. The prophets of the disaster only seek to cut off social fear. So let's listen to reason and facts, because today in Spain there are more people with jobs than at any time in our history, and thanks to the employment reform Spain has beaten its record of indefinite contracts, almost eight out of ten employees. We also have a minimum wage 40% higher than our workers had ten years ago. Tourism, industrial production or the sale of housing are all sectors that show positive trends. And in parallel, Spain is already reaching the nearly 80 billion euros that we have achieved from the European funds, the Next Generation funds, money that is allowing us to modernise our industries, improve the formation of our human capital and create new jobs. We have a serious inflation problem, no doubt, like the rest of Europe and the rest of the world, and this is not a consolation, it is a reality to take into account in order to correct the problem. But the foundations of Spain are solid. We have institutions that work, we have a business fabric that works, we have professionals who do their work, we have an educated citizenship, aware of their rights and committed to their obligations. That is why I ask our fellow citizens not to allow them to steal their trust. Do not doubt Spain's ability to overcome this test, because we are a resilient, combative country that grows up in the face of adversity and that brings out the best of itself in the worst circumstances. When it has had to choose, Spain has always chosen to move forward and, despite the disagreements and doubts, the Spanish and Spanish always find a way to overcome the crises and improve them. That's how we've built our history, and that's how we're going to build our future. Our democracy, our economy and our welfare state are much stronger than any obstacle and, without a doubt, our European project is much stronger than Putin's autocracy. We have the privilege of living in one of the most developed and prepared countries in the world. In my opinion, and despite the shortcomings, we have the immense fortune and privilege of living in the best country in the world. We can get through this test, like we did in front of the COVID, and we're going to get through it. We must be able to rely on our strength. We must shake our fear of fear and, if we do, I am sure we will move forward. And when all this has happened, what will happen, Spain and Europe will emerge strengthened from this test. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government, stood up.-Applause from the President of the Government addressed to his parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. The meeting was suspended until 4 p.m. Thank you very much. It was one and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u10	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the people in the guest gallery cannot make any demonstration of either approval or disapproval or any other conduct, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[Rumors]] We resumed the meeting with the participation of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. [[Rumors]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please. First and foremost, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u11	President, ladies and gentlemen, a July 12th, as today, at four o'clock in the afternoon, as now, the body of Miguel Ángel Blanco still appeared with a thread of life. [[Applauds]] His pulse turned off, but that of the Spanish nation beat stronger than ever. All the Spanish democrats maintained the tenuous hope that ETA would not have completed its threat and that their lives could be saved. It wasn't, but we knew that at dawn on the 13th. In your memory I want to begin my intervention by keeping in my time a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen and the members of the government keep a minute of silence, standing up.-Applause]] The name of Miguel Ángel Blanco was given by Muñoa, councilman at Eibar of the then Herri Batasuna. Yeah. They were already in the institutions: Herri Batasuna, today Sortu, integrated into EH Bildu, whose members neither condemn nor collaborate to clarify them 379 unresolved terrorist murders. Miguel Ángel Blanco was killed for being a councillor of the People's Party, as before and after so many other politicians of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and UPN, in that strategy of terror that called it socializing suffering. Today we know, because justice and the rule of law continue to act, that Kantauri, Mikel Antza, Anboto and Iñaki of Renteria, as leaders of the political command, had given direct and express order. Specifically, they ordered to put as much force as possible into raising a councillor of the People's Party. But ETA was defeated by the police, the Civil Guard and Spanish society. ETA began to die on the day of the Spanish nation's civic rebellion for the murder of a young man who was born in May 68. This is the story of our democracy. That was the real beginning of the end of the terrorist band ETA. That is the true collective memory that the Democrats must honor and that we must never renounce, because democratic memory is to remember that in Spain there were those who kill and extort members of the forces and bodies of State Security, women, children, politicians, entrepreneurs, workers of all kinds, and even, Mrs Aizpurua, some who had previously been of their own, such as Yoyes. [[applause]] Why democratic memory is remembering that there were those who resisted, that there were those who had to start a new life away from their land, that there were those who did not pay a revolutionary tax. There were those who did not stop writing and expressing their ideas, professors who did not stop giving their faces, such as the recently deceased Fernando García de Cortázar. There were those who continued to search for Ortega Lara until he was able to release him. There were those who, when they killed their party mate, took a step forward knowing that they were going to kill him, like Manuel Zamarreño, and killed him, or who in Orio protected some young people of the People's Party, despite not being his party, and perhaps that was what cost him his life. Why democratic memory is to remember that Miguel Ángel Blanco does not rest on the land that saw him born, because those who did not let him live did not let him rest. [[Applauds]] And they still do not let us live in peace, as demonstrated by the condemnable - not by Bildu - aggression in Pamplona last Thursday to councillors and policemen. From these Courts, the seat of national sovereignty, we, the People's Party, reaffirm our commitment to continue defending the need for memory, reparation and justice. [[Applauds]] That is why the same spirit of civic rebellion that fed the Spaniards 25 years ago is the one that today places us in front of your Government, Mr Sánchez, since only to resist did you choose the path of unworthy pacts. He places us in front of his Government when he turns Bildu into a notary of the Transition and with his hand casts a cloak of ignominy over the governments of Adolfo Suárez, Leopoldo Calvo-Sotelo and Felipe González. [[Applauds]] None of the three, none of them, nor the rest of the protagonists of the Transition deserve what you have agreed with Bildu: to put in check the account of the exemplary Transition, according to the words of Bildu's own spokesman. That is why we transferred the Spaniards that we will repeal it and that we will recover the spirit of the Transition, because if there was someone who did everything possible to try that the Transition and democracy derailed was ETA, and with them they are not given the memory. [[applause]] Mr. Sánchez, listen to the voice of writers, like that of Andrés Trapiello, who clearly say to you: we know that of all faculties that of memory is the least democratic. They remind individuals, each one of their own, not peoples, not territories, not some political or academic elites, and even less for sectarian reasons. The People's Party is in favour of the recognition of the victims, of all the victims, but trying to rewrite the history of Spain at Bildu's hand is one of the greatest unimaginable immoralitys and something for which you did not have a Spanish mandate, because you came to the elections affirming the opposite directly. Or do you not remember since you said you will not agree with Bildu and that you were willing to repeat it up to twenty times? Do you remember, Mr. Sanchez? Would you do it today, even if you were just here one more time? [[Applauds]] A present lie that he wants to bring, rewriting history, also to the past. You and the lie, synthesis of this legislature, balance of your management. He also stated that he would not pardon those convicted of the trial, and he has done so. He said he'd bring Puigdemont. And today the question is, will it push reforms to modify the crimes of sedition and rebellion? Others from their partners are asking for it. Are you going to give in to keep resisting? What new assignments are you going to surprise us with on Friday, after your meeting with Aragonès? I remind you that you are being asked to stop the judicial process and repression, which, according to your partners, is receiving the independence movement. I translate it: it's called independence and amnesty. The problem is that we can't trust your answers today either. Because if there is an identifiable achievement in your Government it is precisely the total devaluation of the word given. The time has come to return its value to political commitment. That citizens can trust again and the People's Party is willing to keep the word given. [[Applauds]] Mr President, this is the first time this debate has been held since it came to the government in June 2018, which reflects all the anomalousness that surrounds your years of presidency. Anomalous is that the debate is related to four legislative reforms. Anomalous is a way of governing with more than 120 royal decrees laws and with more than 50 laws blocked in their processing. Anomalous is to listen deafly to the reports of the Council of State and to be repeatedly disqualified by the Constitutional Court. Anomalous is the deterioration to which the institutions have been subjected. Since you ruled, we have seen how a minister of justice has gone directly to the Office of the Attorney General of the State. Who's the prosecutor's office depending on? Well, that's it, Mr. Sanchez. Since you rule, we've seen how there's a socialist leader at the head of the CIS who even writes books about you. Since you ruled, we have seen how you dismiss everyone who is uncomfortable with you: the director of the CNI, General Pérez de los Cobos and even the attempt to the president of the INE before he left. This is you. Mr Sánchez, although you want maximum powers with minimal controls, do not forget that in parliamentary democracy it is Congress that controls the government and do not forget that citizens will soon control you. Mr President, this debate on the state of the nation has to be the debate on the state of the citizens and we are a nation whose citizens today bear an inflation of more than 10%. And we are not guilty of it, nor is it our responsibility, as you have told us today. Inflation is the cruelest virus that can affect the economy of families because it does not empty only the portfolio, also the current account balances. It is the biggest tax, the most unfair and the most regressive because it affects more those who have less. It is the largest cut in savings, as it is worth 10% less. A roll of 1000 euros becomes the purchasing capacity of one of 900 last year. The milleurists have ceased to be. Today you have come to say that the blame for inflation is on consumption, when you should know that consumption has fallen in the last year. Inflation is not only Mr Putin's responsibility, but also you, Mr Sánchez. Their policies, or rather the lack of them. I'll prove it to you. Last year, long before the invasion of Ukraine, inflation was already 6.5%, while in the eurozone it was 5% and in Portugal it was 2.7%. So, you were trying to say that it was transitory and, instead of taking action, you were making statements. In February we were already at 7.6%, and the war had not begun. For it has not been transitory, and its errors of forecasting and its lack of capacity we are paying all the Spaniards. Why if Spain depends less on Russian gas than Germany our inflation is two points higher? Why does Portugal have a lower inflation than Spain, 9%? Why is France almost half? Not counting that you found a country where Spanish inflation was lower than that of the euro area. The differential factor is you and your chaotic government. They are more engaged in solving their internal differences than in solving the problems of the Spanish, and this is the big problem. [[Applauds]] That's why the problem is you and we only have this in Spain. No excuses are needed, measures and reforms are needed, and today we have seen that you do not have any, little more than some patch. Mr Sánchez, meanwhile, your coffers are becoming more and more full as a result of inflation, 15.5 billion euros more to be raised this year. [[Rumors]] This is the benefits that fall to you from the sky of inflation. And, meanwhile, the families' pantry is becoming more and more empty. In addition, it is the OECD Government that has increased fiscal pressure the most when other countries lower taxes. While its Executive is overflowing with 22 ministries, pressed into the blue bank, of more than 800 consultants who do not even fit in the offices of the Moncloa, the Spaniards have to dispense with the most basic. For what? To pay you your macro government. How long do you intend to make your executive a slab for the Spaniards? Aren't you going to propose a single measure to reduce unproductive spending, starting with your macro-government? In Spain of 2022, filling the car with gasoline, turning on the air conditioning or heating in winter or paying the expenses of housing have become a luxury item for hundreds of thousands of families. With this, do they not fall for the shame of asking the Spaniards to save in air conditioning in full heat while paying the biggest and most expensive government in history? [[Applauds]] There are families who have to choose between eating or fixing the washing machine. They can't face the change of any contingency, like car wheels that are worn out. This is the reality that reflects one fact, that almost 30% of Spaniards are at risk of poverty and 44% of households with a single mother, according to the INE's living conditions survey. Given this contrasted reality and its proven inability, today also demonstrated, why not let yourself be helped? The president of my party has asked you to ask Europe to phase out the hydrocarbon tax on a transitional basis. Why don't you? The Spaniards are paying more than 2 euros per litre, and you have raised only 676 million euros more through this tax, 15% more. They are historical peaks with elevations of 30 cents that have absorbed the help of 20 cents. That is, other measures are needed. The president of my party has proposed to reduce VAT on electricity and gas to 5%. Why don't you do it for the gas, too? They have already raised €55 billion more through VAT alone. There's room, Mr. Sanchez. The president of my party has asked you to adjust the rate of the IRPF so that inflation does not penalize the Spanish twice. Why don't you? If the middle class and low incomes are 10% poorer, they can't keep taxes as if nothing happened. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, the people who are distressed, who turn their backs, who ask for another government, do not live in luxury penthouses or smoke pure Habans. They are the ones who will have to wait until December to be able to collect the 200 euros that it approved just fifteen days ago. Those who have not yet charged the rent bonus of 250 euros that you announced last October. Or all those who continue to wait for the minimum living income to reach them for more than two years. It is true, Mr. Sánchez, that they are powerful people, very powerful. Because there's nothing more powerful than a citizen's vote. [[Applauds]] They are powerful people who do not understand that instead of a government we have and we pay three. They do not understand that a good measure should be delayed because it was proposed by the People's Party and, meanwhile, they have paid 200 million euros out of their pocket. They do not tolerate the fact that unemployment figures are formidable when we are the most unemployed country in Europe. Those powerful people are millions of Spaniards with names and surnames. There's no house or bar in any corner of Spain where they're not talking about just this, why don't you accept the popular party's extended hand. [[Applauds]] They are the middle class and the low incomes that cannot pay the same basket from the purchase of a few months ago: the dozen eggs that cost 1 euro a year ago cost them 1,58. The liter of milk has increased from 0.63 to 0.95. That you have to cut off your vacation days and that you can't face an unforeseen expense. Those are the powerful people who turned their backs on him in Andalusia and who today should not let him sleep, but you have taken away their dreams. We are the Spaniards who owe 6000 euros more because you have fired the debt up to almost 30 billion euros. We are poorer than in 2019. We are the Spaniards who will have to pay 780 euros more on average per year on the mortgage for the rise of interest rates. It is that 30% of young people who do not find a job or, if they do, are below the qualification of their training. 40% of university students do not rate as university students, because Spain today is a more unequal country and the Spaniards are more at risk of falling into poverty than when you arrived in Moncloa. Your social policies have failed, Mr Sánchez, and the raw reality is that you are going to leave Spain much worse than you found it. And the first commandment for a good ruler is to leave things better than how he found them. [[Applauds]] We are the fourth euro economy, but we are also one of the few countries in the European Union that has not yet regained the pre-pandemic growth level. Our fall was the biggest in the OECD and recovery is the weakest, because its policies don't work and put us in the queue of economic recovery. We have fallen by 10.8%, the largest fall in the euro area and, after failing in all its growth forecasts in 2021 and 2022, we have not yet recovered the pre-pandemic growth level, and we will not do so until the third quarter of 2023. Yes, Mr Sánchez, until the third quarter of 2023, two years later than the rest of the countries around us. And why? Because, as Funcas collects for example, we are the country whose government has least directly helped its productive fabric. While you were enabling 7 billion -1800 have not been spent -, Germany was enabling 50,000; France, 20 000; and Italy, 11 000, expandable to 25 000. You see what's wrong? You, your government and the lack of aid. You in your evil-governing manual in the face of every crisis have always done the same, you have done the same with the pandemic and you have done it again with the effects of the war in Ukraine. First, the denial of reality, denying existence, thus seeking no solution to the problem. It will hardly have effect in Spain we were told both with the COVID and with the invasion of Ukraine, exactly the same words. You told us today about the diagnosis and the scientific evidence. You still don't remember that the expert committee that guided you didn't show up? Or was it just Dr. Simon? [[Applauds]] The second criterion, improvisation. When the tsunami was already on its way, it improvised measures that were rectifying at the stroke of propaganda spasm. It is still recalled the centralization of purchases at the beginning of the fight against the pandemic or how the measures of the last royal decree announced just fifteen days ago, which have not yet been validated, no longer have effect. Late and bad, this is the seal of your government and your policy. The third of the issues is the avoidance of responsibility. You never have any. First, during the pandemic, the autonomous communities were responsible. Today we have discovered that the responsibility for inflation and the cost of energy lies solely with the citizens, you none. The fourth of the criteria, manipulation, as has happened with statistics and records to hide the failure of their policies. It happened with the numbers of deaths by COVID and now with the GDP data provided by the INE, whose methodology, as it does not like the results, will change it. And the fifth point, propaganda. The Spaniards remember perfectly 'We came out stronger', 'We're not going to leave anyone behind' or 'We've defeated the virus', slogans as false as their government. Today he has taught us the last: we will go for all. It seems that this is the mantra that will haunt us in the coming weeks, but behind, Mr. Sánchez, nothing. The crises overtake them and the worst is that they have never been helped. They did not do so in the past when we proposed the pandemic law or a regulation of the states of alarm and they do not let themselves be helped now when we proposed tax cuts, containment of the unproductive expenditure - 60 billion euros, Mr Sánchez, and not a single measure has told us today - reduction of bureaucracy or good management of European funds. And the same is true of healing. Instead of tackling the problems, such as the serious shortage of family and community medicine specialists, you are uniquely and exclusively looking to meet the European Union's indications. Today Most of Spain lack doctors and this summer only 30% of the staff will be covered on vacation. [[Rumors]] These are the problems and concerns of real Spain to which you turn your back. The doctor, the health center, the office. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, there is an alternative and we offer it to you so that you can start it immediately. We propose to strengthen the system of choice of MIR places so that they can cover all the offered ones, we propose to create the specialty of emergency medicine and emergencies, and we also propose to expand the number of places of formation of family medicine and promote new instruments to be able to cover that need. Because, Mr. Sánchez, this year's accounts were the same as in previous years. The same stories as when he presented the macro picture, accounts that today are more fictitious than ever, when reality is harder than ever. They have never fulfilled their predictions. Since 2018, they have spent much more than expected and grown much less than announced. They have most of the foundations of our economy absolutely unbalanced. They can now try to make up the statistics of the INE as if it were the CIS, but, just as Tezanos could not cover the absolute majority of the People's Party in Andalusia, his statistics will not be able to cover the invoices that the Spanish have to pay yesterday or that the contracts are increasingly precarious, although in the registers they appear as indefinite. After the contracts of work and service disappear by legal imperative and the rest of the temporary ones are expensive, what has happened? So, simply and simply, that the discontinuous fixeds have increased by 700 %. Mr. Sánchez, would you tell a former worker with a work and service contract, now fixed discontinuous, that his contract is indefinite if he works only two months a year? This isn't serious. [[Applauds]] Meanwhile, we remain the country of the European Union with the highest unemployment rate and the second highest rate of female and youth unemployment. One in four unemployed in Europe is Spanish. This isn't great. This is the first time that employment has increased in Spain and, on the other hand, poverty and Spanish people at risk of poverty have also increased. What do you think it's for, Mr. Sanchez? No matter how much makeup you put on, the precarious thing is and the temporary thing is temporary. We need real employment, because, moreover, pensions are not guaranteed by the BOE, but by quality employment and lower inflation. By the way, Mr Sánchez, what day are you going to present the budget for the year 2023? [[Rumors]] We are confident that he will not act as his predecessor, Mr. Zapatero, who left without presenting them in 2012. You seem to have strived to overcome absolutely everything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, one of the major problems we have is that our productive sectors are being strangled as a result of energy. How will the energy market work in our country if there have been more than 960 regulatory provisions since their rule? With the huge energy shortage problem we have, his Government is attacking gas, nuclear, thermal, coal, oil or Algeria, which is our main supplier, is reversing the pipeline from Morocco and we are financing French consumers. Do you think that's how we're going to pay an affordable price for energy? Yesterday we learned that in the first half of the year imports of Algerian gas have collapsed by 41% and that Russian gas purchases have increased, making Russia our second gas supplier, after the United States. Can you explain how it is possible that, while Europe is struggling to get rid of Russia's energy dependence, you have become Spain's second largest gas supplier? Is this compatible with the sanctions on Russia for the war in Ukraine that you yourself have told us about today? [[Applauds]] And the problem is no greater because the United States sells us fracking gas, then it will assume climate commitment. Mr Sánchez, it is urgent to replace the energy intransigence of this Government with an energy policy that facilitates the transition to decarbonisation, but fulfilling the energy trilemma, i.e. meeting climate commitments, security of supply and affordable energy prices. The five nuclear power plants and the seven reactors produce 20% of the electricity in our country, cheaper than the rest and without emissions. Why do you want to lock them up sooner than necessary in this new situation? The Commission and the European Parliament are going to boost gas and nuclear as green energy, come on, we have an opportunity here to lower the receipt of light. Today we pay an average of 303 euros megawatt/hour, in 2015 the average price was 50 euros megawatt/hour. Today we pay six times more. Mr Sánchez, you are very dear to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Are you going to listen to the energy proposals made to you by the president of my party? Are you going to do something useful so that the Spanish don't see the prices even more fired, besides, when the fall comes? The real Iberian exception is that Spain has a government that by sectarianism has not stopped making wrong decisions, and the result is a more expensive and less secure energy than most of our European neighbours. The end of the nonsense is that the Spanish are subsidizing and, therefore, financing the French, and that those companies with which we compete are financed by us. This is real nonsense. Mr Sánchez, we are also facing the greatest security problem in Europe since the end of the Second World War, a clear economic storm with unpredictable consequences, and we are doing so with the executive more united and divided. There's our weakness as a country, don't be fooled, there's one of the keys. They fight for the construction of frigates, for sending weapons to Ukraine, for the defence budget, for being part of NATO and organizing a summit as they protest against it. In any event, in order to translate the commitment to NATO of 2% of GDP in defence by 2029, it is necessary to approve, and therefore agree, a multi-annual expenditure commitment, which will not only affect this legislature, but will also affect the following. We therefore propose that you bring it in and that we address it, but on a multi-annual basis. Are you willing to do that? This is what a serious and responsible ruler would do. We do want to shield the security of the Spaniards. Your Government, Mr Sánchez, has caused the biggest crisis in our neighbourhood policy. With what? With the havoc in the policy towards the Sahara, which has put the supply of gas at risk and which has led Algeria to withdraw its ambassador months ago. And above all, Mr Sánchez, we have not heard a single word from you, you have not done a minute of self-criticism. Mr Sánchez, the Frankenstein Government is no more of itself, it is a failed and exhausted project. Their inability even prevents them from managing generously and with solidarity what European funds mean. Until May, only EUR 2048 million, i.e. 7,2 % of the budget for this year, has been implemented. Their ministers are not even able to say how much they have executed. What we can really move is that the impact on GDP has been zero. We are therefore faced with another missed opportunity, but not his, but that of the Spanish economy, because this means the future of a country and the future of the next generations. [[Applauds]] Instead of accepting our proposal that they be led by a professional and independent authority, you have chosen the discretion of finger-sharing. Well, Mr Sánchez, even that is not going to save you, that will be harmful to Spain and, therefore, to the Spaniards. The balance sheet is that not one of the projects is in operation; the funds do not reach families and companies; there is no dialogue with autonomous authorities or with the other parties in this House; and so far, it has been limited to rescuing projects from the drawers of the ministries. And we reached the penultimate chapter in his resistance manual. Instead of being corrected after the electoral roll, it starts a flight forward, through the total occupation of the institutions. He has already done so with the Prosecutor's Office, with the CIC and with the Post Offices, where he put his own chief of staff at the front, and now he does so with the CNI, the INE and even with strategic companies like Indra, to which you have caused incalculable damage. [[rumors]] And, of course, with justice, which they permanently erode, pressure and try to manipulate with reforms and counter-reforms; the latter, that of the General Council of the Judiciary, which has made us process this very Plenary this week and which refuses to agree. Pay attention to what Europe says, which is the same as the Venice Commission, our Constitution and common sense. For the People's Party the alternative is through the regeneration of institutions, to generate more separation of powers. This is an inescapable goal for Spain to have a better democracy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u12	Quiet, please. Mrs. Gamarra, you'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u13	I'm finishing up, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u15	And that must be done from the unity of the central political forces, so a correction on their part would be expected. That is what the Spaniards demand, but since you have decided not to change course, it will be the Spaniards who change government. They have announced it with Castilla and León, with Madrid and Andalusia and, when you give them back the voice, they will do it with all of Spain. A new government to restore centrality, moderation, harmony, unity, stability and a reformist agenda; a government that restores hope and confidence to the Spaniards; a government that strengthens the foundations of our democracy from a shared perspective, both to what we have done and to all that remains to be done; a government that wants to summon the vast majority of the Spaniards to look together to the future. And that, Mr. Sanchez, is not you. This is what Spanish people can expect from a government presided over by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, because there is an alternative. Thank you very much. [[Strong and prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. I am grateful that you wanted to devote part of your time to the recognition and memory of the victims of terrorism and to all Members and Members of Parliament for their expression in that minute of silence, in the same way that I also thanked you on 27 June, the day when, unanimously and by law, this House decided to dedicate it to the recognition and memory of the victims. But may I remind you that the organisation of the plenary and the organisation of the debates and, therefore, the minutes of silence are raised at the Board of Spokesmen, and I would appreciate it if, out of loyalty to the procedure and the usual operation in this House, it would continue to be so. [[rumors]] Thank you so much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Quiet, please. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. Mr Feijóo will allow me to address the spokesman, to follow the Rules of Procedure, and not to address you. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ooooh!]] It's the least decorum, I don't quite understand why the protest. Mrs Gamarra has made a speech very typical of today's People's Party, which is yesterday's, the day before yesterday's, the usual. The People's Party has not changed over these years and much less has changed, indeed, when we speak - as you have claimed - of the figure of Miguel Ángel Blanco. We also make our own figure, as we make our own of all the people who, unfortunately, were killed by the ETA gang or were victims of it and of all kinds of terrorism. [[Applauds]] Mrs Gamarra made a reflection, a demand for democratic memory and this, in fact, has to remember, as it cannot be otherwise, the victims of terrorism, but also, in spite of you, the victims of the Franco dictatorship. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have begun your speech by making a generic - generic complaint that it has been all - about the accountability of this government, saying little less that we have not been held accountable throughout this legislature, and I want to simply bring you some data - some others I will correct - but throughout this legislature, as President of the Government, you have appeared on 17 occasions. Simply by comparison with the previous Administration, Mr Rajoy appeared for sixteen times and not seventeen, as is my case. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u19	The government has had to face two hundred and thirty appearances compared to the one hundred and thirty-one appearances of the previous government; in short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have surrendered and are accountable for all those legislative initiatives that we are putting in place and all the debates that we have had. Here Mrs Gamarra has referred - we all remember - to the various debates on the state of alarm in order to be able to respond effectively to the crisis of COVID-19. Mrs Gamarra also says that we are not making the right use of public institutions in her view. I believe that the main criticism that we could make of Mrs Gamarra is that we have not put a member of the People's Party at the head of the Constitutional Court, nor have we put a member of the People's Party at the head of Spanish Radio-television, and, ladies and gentlemen, we have never blocked the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary or the Constitutional Court. On the contrary, you have been blocking important pillars for the proper functioning of our democracy for three years, and what I would ask you, as I have done in my first speech, Mrs Gamarra, is for you to unlock the renewal of these main constitutional institutions, which fulfil the constitutional mandate, and we will finally have a renewed and fully legitimized Constitutional Court and General Council of the Judiciary, if not, beyond your different and varied excuses over the course of these three years, we can think that you have other interests that best resemble and much like those of the Republican Party in the United States. [[rumors]] [[the rumors continue]] [[applause]] [[Rumors]] Because right now there are resources, yes, you have resorted to virtually everything: you have resorted to the law of euthanasia, you have resorted to the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy, you have resorted to very important laws in our country such as the law of education and so many others. We can therefore think, ladies and gentlemen, that you, by the back door, want to revoke many of these social and civil achievements that have been approved by the legitimate representatives of the Spanish and Spanish in these Courts. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Therefore, I appeal to the constitutional responsibility of the People's Party and I appeal, in the end, that you, once and for all, withdraw from this unjustified paralysis and block the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court. I said this in my first speech: I am holding hands with the People's Party so that we can achieve this agreement, so that we can comply with the Constitution and, ultimately, also so that we can extend these agreements to basic consensuses, which, by the way, I proposed to Mr Feijóo at my meeting in Moncloa a few months ago. I proposed such simple and common-sense things as, for example, renewing the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court; reforming article 49 of the Constitution to put an end to the diminished term when referring to people with different capacities. I also proposed that you return to the anti-transfuguism pact that you broke precisely with the government in Murcia. I also proposed, Your Honor, that we could reach agreement on security and defence policy. I also proposed to agree on the joint response to the economic and social consequences of the war - you have said little or nothing in your speech; then I will refer to it in more detail. I also proposed, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not speak ill of Spain outside, which, unfortunately, you continue to do. In short, I believe that we have put on the table proposals that are common sense, reasonable, that would help in a context as difficult as the one we are living to recompose unity, to recompose in some way many of the consensuses that, unfortunately, you have broken when you arrived at the opposition. Unfortunately, I don't have an answer. I do not know whether Mr Feijóo will be able to give a definitive answer to this at any given time, but I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, that we could reach some agreements which I believe are basic and essential for the smooth running of our democracy at a time when, indeed, the citizens want political representatives to join, join and work together to deal with the various crises that we have suffered during these years. Mrs Gamarra again says that the main cause of inflation is Pedro Sánchez, that the problem of inflation is called Pedro Sánchez and that, therefore, at the moment when Pedro Sánchez is not at the head of the Spanish government, things will be different and, of course, we will be able to solve the problem of inflation. I am very afraid, ladies and gentlemen - and this is what I have pointed out throughout my first speech - that the issue is much more complex, and you know it. I used the term healer, but, in short, you know perfectly well what the reasons for inflation are. You know, unlike what some representatives of the People's Party have said over the past few weeks, that Spain is not the most inflationary country in Europe or the euro area. Here, for example, are the data, ladies and gentlemen. [[Shows a graph.-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u21	We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a much lower inflation than other European countries have. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u23	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important, in raising the debate on the state of the nation, that we be aware of the origin of price developments. I've explained it before, ladies and gentlemen. In more than 65 %, in the case of Spain everything has to do with the evolution of energy prices and with the evolution of food prices. Ladies and gentlemen, if we stop to think about the answers that we have put forward by the Spanish Government over the course of these months, we are fully aware of how the Spanish Government can cushion the economic and social consequences of rising prices. We did it at European level. I have referred to it before and you have also referred to it. I also do not understand why you are against the cap at the price of the gas that generates electricity in our country. [[Rumors]] I think that's a very good step. If we see the evolution of the daily price of the wholesale market, this is Spain and this is Portugal, we are at prices of around 158, 141 in the case of the cost of adjustment; and, instead, we are far below countries such as Austria, France, Italy, Finland, the United Kingdom or the Netherlands, which unfortunately do not have this measure that we do have. [[shows a graph]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because we have to come up with solutions at European level and we have to come up with solutions at national level. At European level we are doing this with the fixing of the gas price ceiling on the Iberian peninsula. We are also doing this by promoting a reform of the electricity market so that, as I have been told many times by the Spaniards, we can decouple the evolution of the gas price from the evolution of the electricity bill. We are also doing this together with other countries with different governments - conservative and liberal, also social democrats - to set a price at the top of the gas market as a whole. I believe that these are the measures that should be supported by you, among other things, because they are measures that support the governments of the People's Party at European level. Without going further, it is proposed, for example, by a conservative Government such as the Greek Government; it is proposed by a government - let us say-conservative, but also by other political formations such as the Belgian Government; it is also proposed by the Italian Government and it is also proposed by a centre-left Government such as the Government of Spain. At national level, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to put things in place. You repeat once again that the Spanish Government is doing little to cushion the economic and social consequences of the war in the field of inflation. I think you're wrong, ladies and gentlemen. We are doing this, for example, when we propose, for this part of the year, an important package of aid for the sectors concerned, for the middle working class and also for the most vulnerable groups of around EUR 30 billion. We are talking about 2.3 points of gross domestic product. As I mentioned in my first speech, we are, after Lithuania and Greece, the country of the European Union which is putting the most aid into action precisely to cushion the effects of the war on price developments, which I believe, ladies and gentlemen, is what really matters to the Spaniards. I said this in my first speech: let us talk about what is the main challenge facing the Spanish economy and, therefore, our society, which is inflation; let us see what is the diagnosis of the evolution of inflation; and, thirdly, what measures are being taken to alleviate the effects of inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have put the measures on the table. We have proposed, among other things, to extend fuel aid to 31 December with 20 cents per litre of petrol or diesel, and we have also frozen the price of butane until 31 December. I have announced that we will increase to 100 percent the bonus of travel grants in Renfe, in Rodalies and also in mid distance. We have proposed extending sectoral aid to transport, the agricultural sector and the fisheries sector until the end of this year. We have also proposed an increase in minimum living income and non-contributory pensions. We have raised an 80% reduction in taxes linked to the bill of light. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what we lack to know, after all these proposals that we have put on the table from the Spanish Government, is what the position of the People's Party is going to be. Are you going to approve these measures or are you not going to approve them? Are you going to approve them or not, Your Honor? I'd like to be told if or not. [[Rumors]] Are you going to approve them or not, are you going to validate them or are you not going to validate them? Do you or do you not agree to create a tax on big energy in this country? Do you or do you not agree to tax large financial corporations in our country? [[Applauds]] That's what we still need to know. On many occasions, unfortunately, you give supposed economic lessons and come to tell us little or no that we do what we do is ideology with the economy and that we are not scientists and rigorous like you, apparently, every time you rule or talk about the economy. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not so much that Spain is suffering from a crisis as it is suffering from the whole of Europe and the whole world from the unilateral decision of a person to violate international legality, such as Putin, and to put up the whole energy market and the whole food market in the world. The problem is not that we have this war and that we suffer its consequences; the great risk is that you will rule with an answer like the one you gave during the financial crisis and not the one we are giving ourselves in the light of the experience of the pandemic and, now, of the war. Look at some data that I think are quite eloquent. During the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Government has been protecting the incomes of the working middle class and we will continue to do so with inflation. During the pandemic we allocated EUR 270,000 million in aid and guarantees to small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. Of these, EUR 24 billion were specifically to protect jobs, businesses, through ERTs; EUR 140 billion in ICO endorsements, and EUR 11 billion in direct aid to self-employed workers. In public resources to health, to dependence, to education - you know, Mr Feijóo also knows this because we have had the opportunity to talk about it in the conferences of presidents - we have transferred, not as was done in previous crises, but also with direct transfers, economic resources to the autonomous communities and to the municipalities, precisely, in order to be able to deal with the clash of the COVID-19. We do not disagree with the response to the pandemic; on the contrary, we work together with the autonomous communities, with the municipalities and with the social actors to give a joint response to the pandemic. We have also achieved European funds which I believe are very positive for our country. You are committed to continuing to say that the funds are not being implemented. I even heard him tell Mr Feijóo the other day that he didn't know anyone who had received European funds when he was visiting a company that had received European funds. [[Laughter and applause]] But, beyond that, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to give you some data. On 27 June the Commission issued the favourable report for the second disbursement of EUR 12 billion and we will therefore be the first to justify this second disbursement. That has much to do with the legislative task we are doing of modernizing and transforming our country. In order for all your ladies and gentlemen to come up with an idea, between 2021 and 2022, Spain will receive €37 billion. This means that in a single year and a half since the adoption of the plan, Spain will have received more than half of the funding we have until 2026. This is only possible - it should be remembered again - as a result of the fulfilment of the milestones and the objectives which Spain has set itself and which are justifying, precisely, these anticipated disbursements. And not only that, look, in just 12 months since the adoption of the plan, we have authorised more than EUR 35 billion from the budgets of 2021 and 2022. With the more than eight hundred calls for investments decided by the General Administration of the State until 31 May, the recovery plan already finances more than EUR 10,100 million, more than 28,000 projects from all over Spain involving more than 19,000 companies, more than 5,500 local entities and more than 2000 universities and technology centres. I am trying to be precise and concrete, ladies and gentlemen, above all to dismantle that fallacy that you have been saying that we are not managing the economic resources from the funds. The Autonomous Communities have already received more than EUR 155 billion in transfers, in addition to the EUR 10 billion received by the React funds. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that the React funds and the European funds Next Generation were funds that the Government of Spain fought against and, unfortunately, did not count on the support of the main opposition party. [[Applauds]] The problem, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is not that Spain suffers from a crisis; the challenge is how we respond to that crisis, whether we respond, as I said before, with social justice and solidarity or respond as you did during the financial crisis. You made a labor reform that should be remembered that you raised, for example, a temporary contract with a period of one year, with a free dismissal, and that it was a progressive government in 2018, when we arrived after the motion of censure, which repealed that rule. You raised that labour reform, you raised cuts in social policies, and you also raised an unfair fiscal policy that harmed the middle working classes with increases of fifty taxes and fees and a tax amnesty that was considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. And I just want to remind you - because you've referred to it before when you were talking about the fact that what we have to do is to move our societies forward - that the unemployment rate in 2018, when we arrived at the government, was 16.74 % and today it is 13.65 %, three points less unemployment; that youth unemployment was over 36 % in 2018 and that it is now 30 %; that in 2018 there were 8.7 million women affiliated with Social Security and today there are 9.5 million women affiliated with Social Security; that in 2018 the interprofessional minimum wage was 735 euros and now it is 1000 euros; and that the average retirement pension in 2018 was 1083 euros and today it is 1253 euros, that is to say, per month there are 181 euros more, Your Honor. [[a Member of the European Parliament: With traps]] [[applause]] What I want to say is that, with a pandemic and the economic and social consequences of the war, this Government has, without a doubt, protected the working middle classes and has also protected the most vulnerable groups. [[Applauds]] You used to refer precisely to inequality and poverty, which is one of the main problems our country has, inequality and poverty. I always put the most eloquent case, which is that of our boys and girls. Unfortunately, our country suffers from child poverty in excess of 2.5 million children. What we have done has been to approve a vital minimum income, which it does, so that an idea is made - and the data is wrong - that 1.3 million people are already receiving the vital minimum income in our country, of which more than 40% are boys and girls. I just want to say that, according to the La Caixa Foundation - nothing suspicious of serparacommunist -, during the crisis triggered by the pandemic the social shield deployed by the government of progressive coalition prevented inequality in Spain from growing by 80%. We have therefore recovered levels of inequality prior to the pandemic and all this has been thanks to a policy that has not precisely used neoliberal ideology, but has used a progressive ideology to deal with this crisis, effectively, with solidarity and with social justice. Mrs. Gamarra comes to say that we are a radical government, that we are a government, in short, that we have allies... The problem, ladies and gentlemen, if you think it through, is that you don't deal with anyone. [[A Member of Parliament: Yes, with you!]] Well, yes, they deal with someone, with these gentlemen who have to the right, with the ultra-right is with the only ones who do. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah. Look, we have agreed with the European governments on European funds, the gas ceiling; we have carried out one hundred and forty legislative initiatives adopted with different groups in this House; we have held twenty meetings of the Conference of Presidents during the pandemic in which Mr Feijóo has been present. I would have liked Mr. Feijoo to have convened at least one meeting with the mayors of Galicia when he was president of the Xunta of Galicia. [[Applauds]] But, well, we haven't had any luck. I have held twenty conferences of presidents, and we have agreed fifteen consensuses with the social partners that have allowed us to reform as important as labour reform or also pension reform. Therefore, I do not understand very well why you say what you say. On the contrary, what you have done has been not to hold your shoulder, neither in the face of the pandemic nor in the war; you have not told me what you are going to do with the eleven agreements that I have proposed to the new leader of the People's Party; you have broken all the autonomous governments that you had with Citizens; you have voted against all the social agreements that we have brought to this House. It is not only that you do not agree with us, that you do not agree with anyone, that you also vote against everything that others agree. Your Honor, it is true that you have referred to the appeal or criticism I make of economic powers. I insist, I would like to know exactly, Your Honor, whether you are going to have to tell us what you are going to do with the tax on big energy and also with the tax on large financial institutions, whether you are going to approve it or not. [[Applauds]] But I would like to say, Your Honor, that in fiscal policy you are raising the typical things that the right does when you are in opposition. When you are in the opposition - Mr Maroto has heard me say it many times in the Senate - you lower all taxes and, when you are in the government, you raise all taxes. I simply remind you that the People's Party when it was in government had the highest record of rise, for example, in the income tax of individuals; the highest ever recorded increase in VAT was made with the governments of the People's Party; more than sixty tax increases, between 2011 and 2013, forty tax increases, and that tax amnesty to which it referred earlier. In order for you to get an idea, Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has the 18th place in tax collection in the European Union and we have the 20th place in corporate tax collection. In short, what I mean by that, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have a lot of work to do in the area of tax reform. By the way, this is a government that has done a lot in the area of tax reform to fight for fiscal justice: we have passed the tax on financial transactions, we have passed a tax for the big digital corporations, we have just announced a tax for the big financial institutions and, of course, we are going to do the same with the big energy entities in this country. Nor have you said anything to me, Your Honor, about scholarships. Do you or do you not agree with the policies of redistribution or, on the contrary, with the policies of non-redistribution and consolidation of inequality in our country? Because somehow that is what explains why you are justifying decisions like that that is being raised by some People's Party government. And the question I would like to ask you, Your Honor, is this: after this scholarship for the rich, what are you going to pose? An Imserso for millionaires in Bora Bora in charge of the public treasury? Fuel checks for yachts? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No, no!-Applause.-Protests]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is high time that we demanded the strength of the welfare state and the policy of redistribution, not just what you are doing, which is either to cut down welfare policies, or to open the door to their privatization. Ladies and gentlemen, you speak of fiscal discipline; in fact, you reproach me for not being fiscally disciplined. I would simply like to remind you that between 2021 and 2022 we recorded the largest fall in the public deficit, from 10 to 6 %, and it is also logical to highlight the evolution of the public debt, which is now at 117.7% as a result of the work of fiscal discipline and consolidation that we are doing in our public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that little more can be said of Mrs Gamarra's speech. The truth is, there have been no proposals. The truth is that there have only been evaders as to what proposals the People's Party puts on the table to deal with inflation. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u25	I therefore hope that in your reply, Your Honor, we will learn a little more about what you want to do or what the proposals of the People's Party to deal with this crisis are. There's even data that doesn't match, ladies and gentlemen. In the end, you overcome Mr. Married in inflections. The other day I heard an accredited spokesman for the People's Party say that the employment data had been the worst in the entire historical series in June, and that is not true, ladies and gentlemen; these have been the best data, except for those of the years 2005 and 2021. You distort employment data and also economic growth data, ladies and gentlemen. You say that we are the least growing country in the European Union when we are a country that grows above France, Italy or Germany. You say that we have the highest inflation in Europe, when it is not true, ladies and gentlemen. In short, it is not that we have the highest inflation in Europe, it is that we suffer the opposition that lies the most from all of Europe. [[Applauds]] This is the problem we have had since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that you are mixing ETA with the debate on democratic memory. The Socialist Party has been a party that, over these more than forty years of democratic history, has tried to make terrorism a State policy and, therefore, not to enter into the partisan confrontation, which I do not want to do to the memory of the victims and, without a doubt, to their families. We, when President Zapatero was leader of the opposition, put the anti-terrorist pact on the table. Then the rulers of the People's Party kicked him out of a rabbit pulled out of the joke, but it was definitely what ended with ETA: the unity of all political parties and not using the pain of the victims. Since you stand like this and that little less than you infer that I am a person who does not take into account the memory of the victims, I would like to remind you, Mrs Gamarra, and also the People's Parliamentary Group bench that those who have actually used the pain of the victims of terrorism for spurious purposes have been precisely the leaders of the People's Party. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Whoever used the biggest terrorist attack for spurious purposes, deceiving Spanish citizens to win an election, was the People's Party on March 11. [[Let's give it up.-Protests.-A honourable Member: Exhumation!]] And unfortunately, the People's Party does what it does is to parapet behind ETA and the pain of ETA victims to deny the moral duty of the right... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u26	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u27	... assume that the State must exhume the bodies of the victims of the Franco dictatorship and also condemn the 1936 coup d'état and the Franco dictatorship. [[Applauds]] In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, there are still 114,000 forced missing. We are, after Cambodia, the country of the world with the highest number of missing persons. [[Protests]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. And the People's Party, when it was ruling, was showing the breach of historical memory, not putting a single euro in order to comply with the law of historical memory: it paralysed the exhumations of mass graves, did not update the map of graves, paralysed the study of the location of new graves and ignored the propositions in this House of different parliamentary groups and also of international bodies - such as the United Nations - to make policies of democratic memory. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we claim the Transition, the Amnesty Act and the Spanish Constitution, and we claim the memory of all the victims, the victims of ETA and the victims of the Franco dictatorship. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u29	In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is the economic debate, the important thing is the proposals that we have put on the table to deal with this evolution of inflation and I would really like to know, Mrs Gamarra, what your proposals are and whether you are going to validate the Royal Decree-Law and whether or not you are going to support the measures put in place by the Spanish Government. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u31	Thank you, President. Mr. Sanchez, the truth is I've seen you loose, I have to confess. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] We are already used to you not keeping your word and, for starters, it has become clear. You said you weren't going to refer to Mr Feijoo, but you couldn't resist the temptation to do so. Mr. Sanchez, starting with the end, you're wrong about the enemy. The People's Party long ago condemned Francoism, you have no doubt. [[Rumors]] Those who do not condemn terrorism are their partners and are called Bildu. [[Applauds]] I will tell you one thing, at least to maintain a little respect for a political force that has not only fought against terrorism, but has also left many lives on the road to fighting terrorism. [[Applauds]] I think that deserves a minimum of respect, because, no longer does it equal us with Bildu, is that you humiliate us by putting them above us. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: There, there!-Applause]] Don't be mistaken, Mr. Sanchez, don't be mistaken. I believe that this debate on issues that have been going on during this legislature is important, because the rule of law continues to work and continues to move forward. There are 379 unsolved terrorist attacks. I invite you from now on, without regret and without collaboration, to grant no prison benefits. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] With that you would be proving that you are up to what is needed. Let's get to other issues. I also recommend that you see who is criticizing the democratic memory law. It's not just the People's Party, because here what we're talking about is what the Transition meant, which is what you're questioning leaving in Bildu's hands that the Transition reaches the end of 1983. Think, think; I think the history of Spain deserves it. [[Applauds]] Let us move on to economic issues. You have asked what we will do in relation to your royal decree. Mr Sánchez, I think it is important to make it clear that you are the one who governs; for a short time, but it is up to you to answer the questions to us. What I can put to you is the following. The big problem when we talk about a real decree is that you have changed the 'no' that you practiced in opposition for the 'yes or yes', that is, what you say, be good for the Spaniards or be bad for the Spaniards, and we do not settle with that. You ask us what we're going to do. You have presented a 5% VAT reduction that we raised months ago; if you had put it into practice at the time, the Spaniards would have saved EUR 200 million from their pockets. [[Rumors]] And why not apply it and extend it to the gas, for example? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u33	Another question. You have admitted one of the proposals we made to you a few months ago, which is that direct aid for those with less income, that 200 euros. What I am asking you to do is to ensure that there is good management of this aid, because we are already talking about the fact that it will be in December when it is covered; the aid must be effective at the moment when it is needed, not to announce it, to approve it, and then that the citizens have to wait. What do we put in there? Something I think is important: deflate the IRPF sections. Why? Because there are middle class and low incomes that with inflation they can't, but you keep collecting and don't take it into account. There you have a proposal to improve this royal decree. Why don't you take it? There are some issues that we can talk about. Because, of course, you have made a good face, you have told us here that you listen to us and you have asked us what proposals we make to you, but all the Spaniards know that you have received a proposal for an economic plan with specific measures on which we have not only received no reply, but do not want to sit down and talk about them; so that not even the draft law in which amendments could be made has been blocked. This is you, who doesn't even allow you to improve the measures that are mere patches that you approve and propose. [[Applauds]] That's what we want to do, and we want to go further, Mr. Sanchez. You have spoken of different covenants that you raised with the President of the People's Party. You've received proposals. And what have we received? Ignorance; not even: OK, I've received it, see you. It has the economic plan, but it also has a state pact on security and defence and a state pact on justice. Why can't we talk about energy too? And it has also received a proposal to address the reform of Article 49 with guarantees as to the disappearance of the concept of 'decrease'. [[Applauds]] There they are, if you want we can approach them, for us it won't be. Besides, Mr Sánchez, when we talk about security or defence, who are you going to pass those measures with? If we have been able to read in different media the guirigay that takes place in their councils of ministers to approve these measures! This is unthinkable in any serious country. In a serious country there is no coalition Government where one part of the Government opposes the other part of the Government; there is usually unity, especially in State policies, and this lacks in its Government, which already shows what kind of government we have. You ask us what we will do in relation to the new taxes that you have talked about. We'll wait until we know the small letter. The feeling I have had today is that not even all members of your Council of Ministers know the details of the new taxes that you have announced here. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] At the very least, it would be good for all your ministers to know those taxes you are talking about. When they arrive, we'll analyze them. But we can talk about what is already happening and what is already being applied in this country in tax matters. You have raised 15.5 billion euros and you have done so through VAT and the IRPF; that is, this affects those who have less. Why don't we talk about this too? I think it is important that this is where we seek to help the middle class and the working class in our country, especially those who are experiencing the worst. Mr Sánchez, I think you're getting the data wrong, because you're talking about minimum living income and 1.3 million people; but it's just that you announced that 2.3 million people were going to receive minimum living income and many are still waiting for it. [[Applauds]] Also all those you promised in October the rental bonus are still waiting for you. How long are they gonna wait? A year? A year's rent? You are a factory to generate frustrations. We can also talk about the price of light. You told me about the wholesale price. Well, I'm going to tell you about the retail price, this one, the bill, the one the Spanish get every month, the cotton test. [[shows several bills of light]] The cotton proof says that the one who paid 207 euros today pays 312 in the same month and that a company that paid 3494 euros in the same month has paid 19,541. [[Applauds]] This is the retail price, this is the reality of the energy price in our country. [[Applause.- Denials by the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] Yes, Mr. Sánchez; yes, Mr. Sánchez. I'll send them over so they can see what the Spaniards get. As always, you seek to confuse two different crises, the one of 2007 and the one of today. I have to remind you that in 2007 you ruled. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, since you like to talk so much about the recipes that apply, I will tell you who practiced the biggest cut in rights that has taken place during an economic crisis: the Socialist Party and, specifically, with you as a Member. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] There will not be a single Member in the People's Group who voted in favour of freezing pensions for pensioners, and you voted in favour. You were a deputy who also lowered his salary; yes, you cut his salaries. [[Protests]] You were a Member who cut the budget by EUR 35 billion in 2010. In what, Mr. Sanchez? In games that had to do with the welfare state. That was you. So lessons, the just; above all, because we remember very well - and the Spaniards also - the country we received. When we arrived at the government we had to manage a country where there were 250,000 less self-employed, 222 000 SMEs closed, 3.5 million unemployed, 82 billion euros in unpaid bills and a deficit of 9%. That's what we manage and the Spaniards remember perfectly the sacrifice we all had to make to get this country out of the way. [[Applauds]] What we can tell the Spaniards is that we will do it again, Mr Sánchez; we will do it again. [[Applauds]] You have spoken about the reduction of the public deficit that you are carrying out, but, Mr Sánchez, do not be trilero, which is one of your specialties. The government deficit can be reduced by revenue from increased collection or can be reduced by the decrease in unproductive expenditure. Which one did Mr. Sanchez choose? As it could not be otherwise, reduce from income for more collection. Where did that collection come from, Mr. Sanchez? For the whole of Spanish society and, fundamentally, VAT and inflation. That's where you're collecting more. Why don't you commit yourself here today? To what? To reduce the public deficit. On what? From the reduction of unproductive expenditure. Is it possible that we will conclude this debate on the state of the nation, with the inflation that the Spanish are suffering, with the energy prices that we have, and that you will not commit to reducing unproductive spending, starting with your macro-government? [[Applauds]] That's what I'd do...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u34	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u35	I'm finishing up, President. This is what Mr Sánchez would do, a responsible government and a government with a soul. A government with soul, heart and intelligence would have made those decisions. You have begun to ask us about the General Council of the Judiciary. There's a proposal. They've got it on the table. It seems to you that the only thing that interests you is to carry out a reform to return to yourself the possibility of appointing new judges in the Constitutional Court. What problem do you have in that the law you want to deal with this week is not dealt with this way and we address another set of commitments? Why not return all the powers held by the General Council of the Judiciary and make it possible for the vacancies to be filled, for the pending cases to be upheld, for the bonds that are deposited and that need the economic and business fabric to be returned? That would show you that you care about justice and that you don't care about controlling justice. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo, brave!- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, you ask for respect and I ask you to respect our citizens and not to call them Spanish. [[Applauds]] Don't call them Spanish, they deserve respect. We deserve a different opposition, ladies and gentlemen, a different opposition than we have had during these difficult years, both during the pandemic and during the crisis of war. Of course there are two ways out of the crisis, Your Honor, of course there are. [[Rumors.-Mr.Garcés Sanagustín: And you talk about insulting the Spaniards!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u38	Quiet, please. Mr. Garcés, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u39	You are talking about this excess of the Spanish Government's revenue for those €15 billion that stem primarily from economic growth and job creation. [[Laughs and protests]] But those EUR 15 billion, ladies and gentlemen, is what this Spanish Government is reversing for the protection of families, businesses and industries by 31 December. [[Applauds]] Please state whether or not you are going to vote in favour of these measures, whether or not you are going to vote in favour of extending these measures until 31 December. Because so far, ladies and gentlemen, you have voted no to all the measures in defense of the working middle class of our country. [[Applauds]] And, as we are doing, we are asking the big financial institutions and the big energy companies that also provide those 'benefits' to protect the working middle class and the most vulnerable groups in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the technical definition of these two new taxes, I would like the People's Party to come up to this rostrum and say that it is in favour of fiscal justice and that it is in favour of approving these two taxes so important for fiscal justice and the redistribution of social policies in our country. [[Applauds]] If not, ladies and gentlemen, we can all think that the People's Party ultimately defends other interests here. You, Your Honor, have heard me ask on many occasions what interests the People's Party defends. You have heard me ask many times how it is possible that in policies and even social advances in rights that are cross-cutting and that benefit not only people who can vote progressive, but also people who can vote for options such as the People's Party and others - such as raising the interprofessional minimum wage, such as making a labor reform that has made eight out of ten contracts signed in our country indefinitely right now, such as approving that we have a pension revaluation under the CPI - it is so difficult for you to vote in favour. Why is it so difficult, Your Honor? The other day I was amazed by the statement made by a leader of the People's Party, a vice president of an autonomous government of the People's Party. [[rumors]] He said that a couple with two children who enter more than 140,000 euros deserves help because the economic situation is difficult and these families have difficulty reaching the end of the month. This is pure empathy, Mrs. Gamarra, pure empathy; it is the expression of a noble heart. [[Applauds]] The problem is that the same leader, when he suffered poverty rates where he governs with a Caritas report, laughed at that report and said: Where are the poor in the community? [[Applauds]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that in Spain there are only 5% of families with annual incomes above EUR 100,000 and the remaining 95% does not reach that EUR 100,000, ladies and gentlemen. Who do you defend? Where they rule, what interests do they defend? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are defending the interests of a select minority, of 5% privileged; you are not defending 95% of the middle working class. That is why, when they come to the government, instead of doing what they promise when they are in the opposition, that it is lowering VAT, that it is lowering the IRPF and that it is lowering the corporate tax on small and medium-sized enterprises, what they do is raising VAT, raising the IRPF, raising the corporate tax on small and medium-sized enterprises and making tax amnesties for the great fortunes of this country. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, they will no longer be able to do so, because these tax amnesties are already prohibited by law. Your Honor, you have come to say that you will do it again. Mr. Feijoo, are you going to do everything again? Really? Everything you've done? Everything they did they're gonna do again? I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you must reflect and that you must contribute with solutions, with proposals and with honest diagnoses to the challenges facing Spanish society ahead. The challenge that societies like ours have, in fact, is inflation; they have the challenge of employment; they have the challenge of inequality. We need to learn lessons from the pandemic, but also from the economic crisis resulting from the war. We must strengthen the welfare state and not cut welfare state policies. By the way, Your Honor, next Monday will begin to deal with many of the aids that you have previously commented on. By the way, Mrs Gamarra, you would have to have the data a little clearer, much clearer indeed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u40	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u41	I'm telling you because it's so funny. [[Laughter and rumors]] You come and say, Mrs. Gamarra, that if we lower VAT - Mrs. Gamarra, do you hear me? - it is going to collect more, but it turns out that the Board of Andalusia has already asked the Government of Spain for compensation for the reduction of VAT proposed by the Government of Spain. [[the lady]] [[Applauds]] It's just there's nowhere to catch him. It's just there's nowhere to take it, Your Honor. He talks to me about unlocking the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court, but enough excuses, Mrs Gamarra. You, every time you are in opposition, block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court. On this occasion, in this legislature, they take the palm, because it is three years that have been blocking with all kinds of excuses the renewal of these constitutional institutions. And I ask you here today, Mrs Gamarra, Mr Feijóo, once and for all to comply with the Constitution and allow the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court. [[applause]] They just don't have an excuse. And if you have an excuse, it is precisely to try to revoke by the back door social conquests that you have resorted to today in the Constitutional Court. Little more can be said of Mrs Gamarra's speech. I will return for a moment to talk about terrorism, simply to remind you that ETA was defeated ten years ago and that it does not matter that ETA's defeat took place under the political direction of a socialist government, with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and the vice president of the government, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. [[Applauds]] It doesn't matter, because you guys still have the same thing. You don't care, because he doesn't spend time for you. It does not matter that the Aznar government called ETA with the glorious name of the Basque movement of national liberation. And I see that with regard to that partisan use of terrorism, the new People's Party continues the classic tradition of the People's Party. And I have one doubt: is that Rubalcaba, ladies and gentlemen, whom you invoke in your speeches and in your tribute tweets, the same Rubalcaba whom you called ETA's accomplice, ETA's undercover agent, ETA's covert? [[Applauds]] Because, if it is the same, I would like to bring Mr. Rubalcaba's words right into this rostrum in the 2005 state of the nation debate. I hope you will listen, and I wish to see what face you are facing, because Mr Rubalcaba was saying the following from this rostrum: When you, gentlemen of the People's Party, are in the opposition, you immediately seek the revenue in anti-terrorist matters. They've been in the opposition for a few months, and they're back on track. And Mr. Rubalcaba continued: Yesterday we heard the toughest, most disqualifying, most insidious, most unjust and most disloyal speech that any leader has heard in this House. No one ever said the barbarity Mr. Rajoy said yesterday. No one has ever expressed himself so harshly and so unfairly against a democratic government in the fight against ETA. Never before in this House have we heard anyone say that the government was betraying the dead; the dead socialists are also supposed to be. Well, since 2005, ladies and gentlemen, you continue along this same path. The most curious thing is that if they then used the dead victims of ETA, then they used the socialist victims of ETA and now they get to use Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, who died, who denounced them for using terrorism partyically, as you are doing. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government, stood up.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Unity Group We can-In Common May-Galicia in Common]] And you talk about moderates. They have returned to walks a decade after the end of ETA, with ETA, as they always do when they are in opposition. They abused the state's security forces and bodies, creating a political police force to destroy their political opponents: the Unidad Podemos, independence and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. They have been abusing the Constitution every day for a thousand days, because they are changing the pretext to fail to comply again with their constitutional obligations, and we have to endure their lessons of constitutionalism and Spanishism. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]] They abused Spanish Radio Television, appointing a Popular Party activist to manipulate radio and television. They abused and abused justice, obstructing its action by destroying evidence requested by the judge, appointing a member of the People's Party to the head of the Constitutional Court or now blocking the renewal of the organs. And Mrs. Gamarra says, ladies and gentlemen, you will do it again. I believe that this, indeed, is a lesson not from the past, but, as I said before, from the present and the disjunctive that we face in our discussions with the People's Party. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, from moderation and respect... [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Yes, not only are you moderate, ladies and gentlemen. From moderation and respect, as I said in my first speech during the morning, I hold my hand to the democratic right to renew the constitutional organs, to give a common response to the economic and social effects of the war and also to achieve those eleven articles that I proposed to the leader of the opposition when we had the opportunity to see, among others, also, without a doubt, the reform of article 49 of the Constitution. [[Mrs. Moraleja Gómez: Transparency!]] Let's see if once and for all the People's Party shows a sense of state...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u42	Mrs. Moraleja, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u43	... Not only when he is in the government, but when he is in the opposition. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government, stood up.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of Unity Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u45	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u46	I'm sorry, Mr. Abascal. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u47	True, Mr. Sánchez, careful with the healers, are the false doctors, those who blame the others for the financial crisis, while they, during that same crisis, were counselors nothing more and nothing less than Caja Madrid. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, no debate, no state, no nation. We face a session with a government and investment partners unable to agree on what the state is and what the nation is. It seems an easy game of words, but it comes to the case to illustrate that strange alliance, that Macedonian, in the words of Mr Sánchez, who said that he would take away his dream, when the truth is that the dream and dreams have been volatilized in millions of Spanish homes during his government, while you come here, to this debate about the state of the nation, and use half of the intervention to talk about the Ukrainian nation, the Russian nation, the Chinese nation and the Supreme Court of the United States. Nor can it be said that the ladies and gentlemen of the blue bank and the majority who support it are too close to the debates. That is, neither State, nor nation, nor debate, because, while you speak of tolerance, you do not accept the free confrontation of ideas and arguments, and we have seen that what you called the new policy has remained in a mixture of propaganda, misinformation, demonization of the adversary, manipulation and even, at times, violence against the opposition instigated and exercised by the Government. [[Applauds]] Between shouts and subsidies, this government, with the help of a large part of the media, is issuing closed debates and calls for reactionaries to which we oppose. Of course we reacted. You'd want us to stay compared and quiet. They have even tried to turn into banned debates the very questionable principles that have inspired all their political action. And no, Mr Feijóo - I take this opportunity to greet you and welcome you - they are also not sterile debates, as you have said on some occasion. I'm sorry, because I know you can't answer me, but believe me, I'm telling you with all due respect and humility. These are not sterile debates. The left says that there are prohibited debates and, many times, you say that these debates are smokescreens and are sterile debates just because you do not want to confront the left, but the left in the end makes its political agenda move forward. [[Applauds]] It does not serve that position, which in reality seeks only to conceal that we are being banned from discussing essential issues that have direct consequences for the well-being of people and also direct consequences for the economy, security and the most basic rights and freedoms. Moreover, according to the Constitutional Court, VOX's appeals have seriously violated the rights and freedoms of Spanish people on three occasions. [[Applauds]] He's done it with impunity, but they're still sitting on the blue bench. He went to the rostrum this morning to say that the rulings of the Constitutional Court or the appeals that arise are swords of Damocles. How does the Constitution claim, saying that the Constitutional Court, which watches over legality, is a sword of Damocles? Nor is it barren to hold this government accountable, no matter how uncomfortable it may be that only VOX in this House would oppose that violation of the legality represented by the covert state of emergency. As you can imagine, we are not going to accept that public authorities or private powers decree the closure of the debates, that is, the end of democracy. Nor are we going to pretend that these debates really do not matter, because we believe that our duty is to represent millions of Spaniards who know that the ruin that haunts them is not the result of chance or the sole result of an epidemic or a war, but fundamentally of sectarianism - often with totalitarian forms - that have imposed rulers who are very concerned about world agendas, such as the pin of the 2030 Agenda that you carry today in the flap and that carry all the powerful in the world - that you now say that they are watching you and chasing you - and by your own personal agenda, which consists only of obeying the dictates of those who are betting on those agendas. [[Applauds]] But they always forget the interests of the Spanish, they always forget the interests of Spain, and that, Mr Sánchez, is the state of the nation. Beyond the concretions that each of us puts forward throughout today in various areas of government, such as the economy, such as social services or international politics, the fact is that the situation of Spanish people is very serious, and runs the risk of being dramatic if those who do not serve or respect them continue in institutions and use them only for their personal objectives and ideological sectarianism. [[Applauds]] And believe me that this reality that I find I am not happy, even though I am sure it will be the foreword and the cause of your out of power. I'm so sorry. I am sorry, Mr Sánchez, even if you do not believe it, the opposition so hard that we have been forced to do so. I regret that from the first day you deceived the Spaniards by establishing a pact that you had promised would not happen. I know it bothers you to remember this in all my interventions, but I am morally obliged to do so because it affects legitimacy as a ruler. Is it legitimate for a politician, twenty-four hours after the election, to do exactly the opposite of what he promised the voters? This House will have to reflect on that. Similarly, he regretted that those who tried to break national unity with a separatist coup had been pardoned by this Government. And he denounced that the project of the former vice president to incorporate ETA into the state leadership has taken to the almost pornographic end that it is precisely Bildu who dares to dictate the memory of the Spaniards, and that it is precisely the lehendakari Sánchez who used Ermua to whiten and legitimize his purpose in a sad act in which they have spattered in indignity. [[applause]] I'm sure a lot of socialists share this just like we do. This is a government sustained in the lie, in the lie of historical memory, forgetting, for example, Calvo Sotelo - and I say this on the eve of the crime that killed him and that triggered the Civil War, by the way, committed by socialist militias escorted from a minister -, and a government sustained in the lie of whitening ETA, using these days nothing but the figure of Miguel Ángel Blanco, whose anniversary of death we also celebrate today. [[applause]] They are crimes committed, one by a Socialist Party and the other by a separatist and socialist terrorist organization. You are the emulsions of the old and criminal Popular Front, ladies and gentlemen. Those crimes that they want to erase are not going to get them forgotten by any sectarian and totalitarian law that they pass in this House. Nor is that debate sterile nor does it correspond to any trauma of those who have suffered in the first person the attacks of a criminal and mob gang. It's simple common sense. It is simply to understand that those who have dedicated and still dedicate their entire political life to destroying Spain with all the means at their disposal are not fit to defend the interests of Spain and the Spanish, no matter how many partners they are. And I do not think I am saying any barbarity, because the fact that they want to break Spain is something they have said openly and publicly in this Chamber. That is why, Mr Sánchez, by that pact with which you voluntarily move away from the national agreement, with which you have sworn right here to trample the Constitution again, you are going to leave Spain ruined, faced, deteriorated institutionally and internationally weakened. That is why ETA, in its parliamentary version, lends its support to them, because that divided, weak and confronted Spain is exactly what they have been looking for for decades. It is true - and I also regret it - that Mr Sánchez has sometimes found himself more allies than the extremists who always support him. For example, I refer to climate laws, that terrible mistake that the Spanish pay every month in their energy bills, in the shopping basket and in the shortage of decent and stable jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, this green pact has led us to an energy emergency. Only some very extreme religious fanaticisms have come to your nonsense the law, which consists in renouncing to exploit our natural resources, those of our nation, even at the cost of the ruin of the citizens. [[Applauds]] Of course it is good and desirable to continue to increase renewable energy sources - who doubts this?, absolutely no one in this House - but it is a capital irresponsibility to impose an energy transition at the expense of the well-being and prosperity of citizens, and always of the humblest. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain there is gas, there is coal, there is lithium and, probably, there is oil in canary waters and there is very advanced technology to continue, and not only to continue, but to extend the nuclear programme with complete certainty. However, you have by law banned access to these resources in this House, you have even celebrated the blasts of thermal power plants at a critical time of scarcity. It's been like watching them applaud the fire of wheat fields at a time of famine. It is an absolute nonsense, although it is true that in that you only follow other European governments. Mrs Merkel will pass into history as the governess who decided that the continent's industrial and food energy supply would become dependent on the will of leaders and governments far away and at times very hostile, as we are now seeing. And today the consequences are paid by the Ukrainians in their meats and by the Europeans in their pockets. [[Applauds]] But not even now that European countries are speedily rectifying, such as Germany and Austria, that they are opening up new coal plants; not even now that Brussels has declared nuclear energy and gas as green energy, not even now you have been deigned to repeal the laws that prevent our economic development and the prosperity of our homeland. That is why we come here, not to ask you to ask us, to ask you, to ask you to rectify, to do it today better than tomorrow, to return to the path of common sense, to return together with the interests of the Spanish people and to abandon those oligarchies of obscene fortunes, which do not give up their luxuries or excesses, which carry in the flap the same pin as you, which always manage to avoid all sacrifices and which at the same time pretend to convince the Europeans that we must live worse while their results accounts, yes, do not stop increasing. Only through censorship and misinformation can we maintain that absurd course that forces us to stop producing what we need while we buy it, ruining ourselves, those who contaminate without limit far from here and again contaminate to bring it here. You are experts in exporting pollution and in exporting employment. [[Applauds]] Only from sectarianism can one continue to defend a course that ruins Europeans, weakens them internationally, compromises our security and, moreover, as is evident and we are seeing, does not represent the least benefit to the health of the planet. Is there really no one among the left-wing leaders in this House who misses the absolute coincidence of the postulates on this issue with the great business and personal fortunes of the world? Does no one really have the honesty to wonder why the craziest speeches of climate fanaticism that we have heard so many times in this rostrum are the same, literally the same ones that we heard from the big bankers, the CEOs of the big multinationals or the big investment funds? Doesn't anyone in this House think so? They still do not understand why workers throughout Europe - and has just passed in Andalusia - are turning their backs on them absolutely throughout the continent. [[Applauds]] It is very simple, because more and more Europeans and more Spanishs see and suffer the consequences of these oligarchies and powerful ideas that you seem to share, but which they do not dare or do not want to contradict. Consequences that are not abstract explanations of a Member in this rostrum, but that are realities such as the state of the nation that Mr Sánchez presides, where public debt is 117% and inflation is 10%; the inflation that you are taking advantage of to collect and elude the Spanish and that is the worst tax against the middle classes and against the working classes. [[Applauds]] Energy, whether gasoline, diesel, gas or electricity, has in some cases doubled. You come here with some fake boards, talking to us about the wholesale cost of energy, but you don't say how much it costs in homes. These are data from the European Commission, Mr Sánchez. [[Show a map]] This is the highest price, in red - in red always bad - and in green are the lowest energy prices in households across Europe. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] This is the reality, Mr. Sánchez, not the numbers you bring here to lie and to confuse. It is also true that young people today charge half of what young people paid in 1980, and that is what those who have jobs, because we have the highest youth unemployment in Europe. You said that every now and then it's best to look back. Well, let's do it with an example, because memory isn't just for wars of past centuries. In 1997, a rent cost 46% of an average pension, today it is 103% of the average pension. And while the abusive taxes take away a large part of the workers' income; after that confiscation, they have to fill the shopping basket or light their homes and re-pay taxes with every drop of gasoline they consume or with every dish they fill for their children. And when the taxpayer, exhausted and ruined, whether entrepreneur, self-employed, employee or wage earner on behalf of others, complains, it still remains defachable enough to tell him that he has to pay 20 billion euros in equality policies for Mrs Montero and for her dozens of associations of friends, friends and 'friends'. [[Applauds]] What exactly is the plan, Mr Sánchez and Mrs Montero, which is no longer there? Make all Spaniards the same poor? I remember that in 2015 you expressed your desire - I say it textually - to be remembered as the politician who managed the economy in Spain. In the first part of the statement I have to give you the reason, you will be remembered, so you may be calm, but I am afraid that is not what I intended. Moreover, when you speak the bread goes up: you have come up here to announce measures to collect an additional 1.5 billion from the bank, and at twenty minutes it has caused losses for small savers and a scare for investors worth 6 billion euros. [[Applauds]] That's you, Mr. Sanchez. You have brought ruin, and in the face of this panorama I regret that only an autonomous government, that of Castile and León, has dared to cut subsidies to employers' organizations and trade unions to allocate it to social emergencies. I would like to congratulate the People's Party on having complied with its government agreement, because all Spaniards need to see that, at this time of difficulty, given the gravity of the situation, there are politicians who are aware that we must cut unnecessary expenditure and devote them to what is important. I encourage you to follow this same course in other institutions. [[Applauds]] I also encourage you to stop obstructing the repeal of the Historical Memory Act in Castile and León and its replacement by a law of concord, as it was agreed, and to do the same, if it suits you, in Andalusia. Because, of course, we must cut the money wasted on employers, in trade unions and in parties, in organizations that do not defend the workers. It is clear, with what we are counting and with the panorama that the Spaniards are suffering, that social peace cannot be bought by bribes to organizations to subject the legitimate protests of the citizens, that they see that their pantry is emptied as long as the politics fattens up to the rude and expands to get into our homes, in our consciences, in our memory and even in biology if necessary, as with that trans law that Mrs Montero brings and that she has put up with war the feminists of all her life, that now, capriciously, a man can acquire the status of woman, often a young man or a child without sufficient maturity, that will end, as in other countries, when he has made irreversible decisions because of the confusion that you have led him to hormoneize or mutilate, denouncing the governments that favored him. You must be personally responsible, with your assets, for the million-dollar compensation that the State will have to pay and that is already being claimed in other countries. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Nor is this a sterile debate, gentlemen of the People's Party, an important debate. If you are willing to be firm on this issue, I would ask you to also have a commitment to repeal if we have the opportunity to do so. I believe that only with this firmness can we build a real alternative, with our legitimate differences, broad in some respects, but an alternative that serves to give the Spaniards what they claim, and it is the expulsion of this Government and all the policies that this Government has brought. We, of course, formally commit ourselves to doing so; we commit ourselves to repealing all the extremist legislative filth that has been brought into this House and the separatist illegalities. It didn't shake our wrists. [[Applauds]] We'll repeal everything as soon as we get a chance. We will repeal all sectarian laws away from the interests of the Spaniards and from any consensus that has been imposed during these years, from the law of climate suicide to the laws of fiscal kidnapping; from the law of brutal promotion of abortion to the law of euthanasia; from the law of educational reform to that of historical memory, which, by the way, we will resort to the Constitutional Court to have another sword of Damocles, because it attacks freedom of conscience, freedom of expression and freedom of chair. Also the transversal gender laws, which have ended the real equality of men and women, creating something so surprising in the world as special courts for men, at the same time - and I have already told it in the motion of censure - that they have made it possible for man to capriciously declare that he is a woman. You really don't get to see the nonsense? I don't think it's barren to oppose this mistake, no matter how hard they seem to have the wrong ones. In fact, the fertility of democratic politics is demonstrated when through debate and confrontation of arguments and the vote can be undone the mistakes or follies that propaganda or force had become law, as it has been during these years of shoemaking and sanchism. I have already mentioned on two occasions as an example the law of historical memory, that grave mistake that you are going to turn, by the hand of ETA's political arm, into democratic memory. Democratic, with ETA; law of memory etarra, rather. Some believe that the papers endure absolutely everything, but it is not surprising, because you are installed in the political lie, just like your political ascendants. It is like when the Soviet bloc erected a wall in the middle of Europe, which was absolutely unprecedented in history, to prevent its citizens from fleeing, and you called it a wall of anti-fascist protection. But, finally, beyond the not-white hands with whom you bring this project, do you really believe that desecrating graves is the task of a government? Do you really believe that the situation in Spain requires looking for fratricidal grievances from wars of another century or another millennium, rather? Or is it rather that Mr Sánchez requires, in order to maintain his parliamentary majority, to grant anything, and that we do not talk about what really concerns the Spaniards? Is it really necessary to have to listen in Spain to a radio announcer from Grupo Prisa, a company that has been rescued by governments of both signs, saying that a Christian basilica must be blown up and that, if possible, it must be done on Sunday? Have you all gone crazy? Has not so much exercise in memory taught them that those who dream of returning to hatred and violence must be expelled from public life? Do you think it's moderately serious to destroy the highest cross in the world to give yourself a sectarian taste? For our part, you know that, because we have told you many times, we will rebuild everything that you destroy and lift everything that you destroy, from the economy to the crossings. [[Applauds]] I regretted at the beginning of my speech all the suffering that the Spanish are suffering as a result of the worst possible government at such a complex international time, and I am also sorry that I have not been able to support the measures that the Government has taken, but I believe that, given the effects of so many measures and so many announcements, no one will ever doubt that we have succeeded and that we will continue to fail to support this government, that we have been successful for a long time in the forecasts we made in the motion of censure, which, sadly, have been carried out behind one another. [[laughs from the President of the Government]] And the same is true of the international scene. In this political personality disorder suffered by this Government, we have seen, in this very legislature, how the Government illegally brought a declared enemy from Morocco and claimed by various courts for very serious crimes. We also know from Morocco that Mr Sánchez, without asking his Government, Parliament or his party, has changed the historical position on the Sahara from a pen. This had never happened in democratic Spain. When he brought the leader of the Frente Polisario he got Morocco to launch a migratory avalanche, which suffered our guards and the neighbors of Ceuta and Melilla. When, unexpectedly, he gave the diplomatic turn - acknowledge that I am generous calling diplomacy to what you do - provoked another avalanche, this time because Algeria opened the border to bring pressure to Morocco, and again the problem ended in Melilla, in the Spanish, in the guards and in the police defending the border. Ladies and gentlemen, Morocco has an obligation to defend its interests, and we cannot criticize it for that. The fact that Spain, for example, has not taken reprisals, as it should have done, against some European countries that have welcomed terrorists and coupsmen in the 2017 coup, does not mean that Morocco or other countries, in the face of similar aggravations, stand by their arms. And now, after the pirouette, it is Algeria that exerts pressure and, unfortunately, has a very effective way of doing so, because of the foolish green pact, which has made us dependent and which prevents us from exploiting our resources. In short, you have created a border problem, a humanitarian problem and an energy problem, all at the same time. Someday we will know why it has done so, but it is clear that this change of position does not follow the interests of Spain. Should we have a good relationship with Morocco? Of course. As soon as Morocco recognizes, without nuances, the Spanishness of Ceuta, Melilla, the Canary Islands and the territorial waters. [[Applauds]] Good fences make good neighbors. And speaking of the fence and the migratory pressure, he welcomed having for the first time heard a clear complaint about the immigration mafias. I think it's about time, although you have to understand that these mafias exist, precisely because they operate with the cooperation of Spanish NGOs, the same ones that you water with subsidies. These mafias, Mr Sánchez, would not exist if Spain sent the clear message to the whole of Africa that whoever enters illegally will be returned, that he will never be able to regularize his situation here and that he will never receive social aid, because it is necessary to end that effect called that you all perpetuate. It is the best announcement for the mafias who traffic with human beings, and at last - I have been proclaiming myself for years - you have decided to denounce them. But the question is if you're going to dare end the mobs. Are you going to dare to put an end to the so-called effect of which you live? Are you going to dare to put an end to subsidies to NGOs working with them? I'm sure you don't. Another question for the bench on the left, as on the climate issue. Have you never reflected on your coincidence with the powerful, with those huge oligopolies, who want to lower wages at the cost of mass immigration? Will they never defend the interests of the Spaniards, who see how their real wages and security in their neighborhoods go down? Because, Mr Sánchez, although some of us are being made so long, in fact not so long ago you were in Moncloa, and I remember that before your government, inclusive language, gender laws, zebra steps of colors and 20 billion equality, in Spain there had been no normalization of that horrendous and aberrant crime of herd rape, but now there are weeks in which we have learned of several. Today, women, with this Government, are more afraid than before. Does this not deserve any thought either? Why do women now enjoy less security than before you came to power? I also regret that in the face of such a repugnant crime, which I am sure is scandalous in this House, we are not able to take joint action. The penalties must be raised, but the left always prefers to talk about reintegration, and I already feel the coincidence, but most of these savages are committed by individuals who should never have entered Spain. [[Applauds]] Can we not stop painting rainbows in the steps of zebras and ensure that those criminals who despise both women and homosexuals return to the prisons of their countries and never see the sunlight again, as Mrs Le Pen, but Mr Macron, has proposed, by the way, now in France, not Mrs Le Pen, but Mr Macron? [[Applauds]] It doesn't look like it's the other way around. You are publishing right now kind tutorials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs explaining to those in Spain how they can cancel criminal records to access Spanish nationality. It seems to us that this is not the best way to regain the security of so many neighborhoods in Spain, Mr Sánchez. Nor has it chosen well to pursue our global defence, that is, our defence policy, because, despite taking many photos with NATO leaders, it has been unable to get that organization to protect our African cities, but it has been very able to get its acolyte media to say that it has done so, even though it does not appear in any text and there is no compromise. Moreover, you have not been able to clear the mistrust that your Government produces in many chancelleries. Believe me, and I say this to you with knowledge, for many photos that give you, no one forgets that in your government and in the parliamentary majority that supports you you have declared enemies of the Atlantic Alliance. You have in your Government members of the Puebla Group, which should be called the Puebla cartel, which, for example, keeps the former President of Bolivia Jeanine Áñez kidnapped, and you have in your Government declared enemies of the West. [[applause]] In this matter of defense I recognize again that surprising agility for the pirouettes. You said, when you were in the opposition, that the Ministry of Defence had to be closed and now you suddenly assume VOX's proposal to increase defence spending to 2% of gross domestic product. Well, welcome again to the far right cheater or any of the labels that you, your Government and your media had placed on us. [[Applauds]] Welcome to xenophobia, to denounce illegal immigration and mafia. Welcome to Francoism and self-government, recognizing that it is unwise to increase energy, industrial and food dependence and depend on unstable countries. Welcome, too, to chinophobia. Do you remember what you were laughing at me in the motion of censure when I warned you of the threat China posed? Welcome to oppressive centralism, with that state plan that aims to combat fires or with that health coordination centre. Welcome to the defense of Poland, to which you had brutally demonized. And welcome also, Mr. Sanchez, to the conspiracies. Do you remember those strange movements you made in this rostrum when you spoke to him about the coincidences of the powerful with your speech about China, immigration or gender? You should get them back to tell us who those dark powers are, those contubers who say they're after you. Really, who are they? Maybe the TV duopoly you've been watering with grants? The boss who rushes to his rescue? Gentlemen in pure, I said. Is that Felipe González? Is that Indra? We will talk about the induced and the assault on companies and institutions at another time. In any case, Mr Sánchez, and he concluded, if you feel threatened politically, all we ask of you is that you do not order another state of covert emergency, because I fear you are capable. The most reasonable thing is that he resigns, not because there are dark conspiracies against his person, but because Spain needs as soon as possible that you leave to recover the wisdom and to fight the ruin that you leave us. To do this Spain does not need you to be relieved, simply, as some believe and want, Spain needs a complete alternative to all its policies. [[laughs from the President of the Government]] When you are not, Spain will recover the debates, the state and the nation. You said in your first speech that you are going to study all the proposals that the groups have made to you. We have made fifteen proposals to him. We're worth studying one, the one she's leaving. You came here with a confrontational, aggressive, sectarian speech...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u48	Mr. Abascal, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u49	I'll be done immediately. You have come here with a confrontational, aggressive, sectarian and permanent reproach speech and tell us, falsely, that you appeal to unity among all and that we are together in the face of adversity. The adversity is you, Mr. Sanchez. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u50	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Abascal, I believe that after listening this afternoon to the People's Party and VOX it is clear that the main concern of the right and the right in our country, the great problem that Spain has is ETA. After ten years of its disappearance, the great problem of Spanish democracy is ETA. Mr Abascal blames me for the commitment of the Government of Spain to the 2030 Agenda. I do not understand why you are opposed to goals as noble as ending poverty, as strengthening public health on our planet, as ensuring the education of our children, as facing a common challenge that humanity has, such as climate change. Indeed, Your Honor, on the basis of the assumptions you have made in your speech, there is little to discuss, because you pose a world, a planet or a country completely different from the real Spain we have, Your Honor. I am sorry that you have spoken about Russia, that you have spoken about Ukraine, that you have also spoken about Chinese evolution, your economy, or that you have also spoken about the potential risks of the US economy or the European economy. I don't understand, Your Honor. I think we should have a calm, non-grievous, non-polarizing debate between all of us. [[Rumors]] I don't think you did that in my speech at all, Your Honor. I don't think he did. I believe that I have tried to give a vision, and share it with the citizens, of what are the causes of the evolution of inflation in our country and in Europe, of what are the risks we face in the coming months, of what are the obligations, the duties, not only economic, but also moral, that Spain has, and, from there, to propose solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are quite used to listening to Mr Abascal and his parliamentary group, and the solutions have shone in his absence. We don't know what the solutions are. Well, yes, indeed, I'm leaving, but, beyond that, there's not much more. I believe that the Spaniards deserve to have a debate on proposals, on measures, in order to be able to contrast what options you have or put on the table to solve the problem of inflation or to solve the many tasks we have in our country. Mr Abascal what he comes to say in some way is that they are the ones who defend the working middle class of our country, the vulnerable groups, I have even heard you refer to VOX as a working party, and that those who wear the pin of the 2030 Agenda, those who believe in multilateralism are globalists, that we are at the service - it seems - of oligarchies that only you know. Well, yes, there's Mr. Soros, who every time he can pull it out on social media. For that, which we defend the oligarchy and Mr Abascal and the VOX Parliamentary Group defend the workers, the people on foot. That is in theory, that is on the surface, Mr Abascal, because, then, when we go to the subject, we see that you are voting against the various reforms that this government has put forward. For example, you voted against an agreed labour reform between the social partners and the Government of Spain, which has brought good things to this country, Your Honor, and I say this with all due respect and with all due consideration to your parliamentary group. Note that in the first six months of 2022 2 218 000 indefinite contracts were signed more than in the same period of 2019 and 3 635 000 temporary contracts less, thereby reducing the abuse of work rotation. The most benefited from this have been those groups that have suffered recurrent job insecurity over the past few years. Note that in June 2022 41.3% of contracts signed by women were indefinite, while in June 2019 they represented 8.3% of the total; 43% of contracts signed by young people under the age of 30 were indefinite, when in June 2019 they represented 7.4%. In other words, 41% of indefinite contracts signed by women in June, compared to 8.3% of the total in June 2019 and 43% of young people in June 2022, compared to 7.4% in July 2019. What do I mean by that? That if you really were a workers' party, as you self-qualified, you should have voted in favour of this labour reform and recognized the work of both trade unions and employers to reach that agreement. [[Applauds]] Really, Your Honor, this is what they should have done. They should have applauded the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage, they should have applauded the upgrading of pensions and they should not put forward things as you put forward in your electoral programme, such as reducing dismissal to twenty days a year worked or proposing solutions to privatize pensions. Look, I deny the greatest, Your Honor. You take heart - and I am very sorry that the People's Party has been dragged into these these theses in Castile and León - but I am very sorry that you identify superfluous spending with spending linked to social dialogue, because I honestly believe that social dialogue has saved many businesses and many jobs throughout the pandemic. He did. Fifteen agreements have been reached with social partners, trade unions and employers during these two and a half years of pandemic, agreements as important as, for example, setting up ERTEs for three and a half million workers; transfers to self-employed workers, one and a half million self-employed workers, half who are affiliated with the Special System of Self-employed Workers in Social Security; the ICO guarantees, which we have launched to rescue many companies, or also the SEPI fund, which has managed to rescue many companies as a result of the pandemic. I do not understand why you link to superfluous spending something that is good to guarantee social peace in our country, unless, in fact, you want nothing to be social peace, but to polarize society, to inflate social fear and, in some way, to gain strength in public debate. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you on many other occasions, Mr Abascal, that this is not going to happen, because the social majority of this country is not in your thesis. [[Applauds]] You reproach me, Your Honor, that we have proposed a tax on banking and you reproach me for the evolution of the Stock Exchange in these last few hours. Do you remember what are the main covers of the economic newspapers in our country throughout this week? That as a result of the change in the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, dividends and also, logically, the profits of large financial institutions in the year 2021 and in the year 2022 are extraordinary. I find it strange that a party that claims to be a worker like yours is against imposing a tax on the bank, on the big entities of our country. First, because the State, during the financial crisis, carried out a rescue to the banking sector that has had a cost, according to the data of the Court of Auditors, of 66,577 million euros. Secondly, because, as I said earlier, the rise in interest rates is already leading to an increase in the margins of credit institutions. I just give you some data. In the first quarter of 2022, the profits of large banks have increased even more than in the previous year, which was already quite enough. To get an idea, in 2021 only the five largest banks in our country won almost EUR 20 billion, which is 45% more than in the previous year, and in this first quarter of 2022, the profits of the big banks have increased even more, and I put the case of Banco Santander, with more than 58% compared to the previous year, that of BBVA, with more than 59% compared to the previous year, that of Caixa, with more than 22% compared to the previous year, and that of Sabadell, with more than 100% compared to the previous year. What problem do you have, ladies and gentlemen, that the large financial institutions of our country are also shouldering and helping to protect families, businesses and large industries? What's the matter? [[Applauds]] I don't think there has to be a debate. I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be a good thing for this House - and I know that it is much more complicated with you - to come up with a great unanimous agreement, from all the parliamentary forces, to approve that tax on the big bank and, of course, also on the big energy companies in our country. You're trying to inflate fear, Your Honor. That's his speech, that's his goal, his political strategy. It is true that we have a problem with inflation, I said earlier in my speech. But I also believe that it is important - I stressed in my first speech - to give importance to what are the foundations of our economy. I was looking here, for example, just so you can take it into account when analysing the situation of our economy, that Spain is going to be one of the most growing economies in Europe over the course of this year and the following. Yes, more than 4% in 2022 and above the European average in 2023. You spoke, Your Honor, of immigration, which is always a recurring theme in your party. I will simply give you some data about this of the so-called effect that you always pose. Regarding irregular migration, by the year 2018, when we arrived at the Government, 64,298 irregular migrants and 41,945 migrants had arrived in Spain in 2021, or 65.24% less. In seasonal terms, the number of irregular arrivals in June 2022, which is always a complicated month, was 14,071, lower than the number of irregular arrivals in June 2018, when we arrived at the Government, which was 17,300. With regard to regular migration, I would like to say that in Spain, according to the migration statistics of the National Institute of Statistics, there are 5,417,883 foreigners out of a population of 47 million. In other words, 11.42 per cent of the population registered in the continuous pattern is foreign, compared to 88.58 per cent of the population with Spanish nationality. If you bother to read a 2019 Princess of Asturias award, Alejandro Portes, who is a sociologist and professor of a famous university in the United States, Princeton, and author of a very important sociological study, the most important one made in Spain about integrating the so-called second generation of immigrant children, which is an appointment of new Spaniards, you will see that the conclusion of this study, which is very interesting and I would like to share with your lords, is that the new Spaniards are integrated; that the low experiences of discrimination have been demonstrated, the high levels of self-identification with the country, that do not differentiate the immigrant children born in Spain from the Spanish children; that nationality is not determinant, it is their social class, and that the key is the socio-economic status of the family and gender of the young person, not nationality, lordship. What I mean by this is that, in the face of his hate speech, fortunately, in our country there is a vast majority of Spanish society that embraces the diversity of our country. [[Applauds]] On the law of climate change, the problem that you and I always have when talking about this, Mr.Abascal, or the common of mortals in our country when we hear this from climate fanaticism, the climate religion, in short, all the epithets that put you to this global challenge that humanity has, which is the adaptation and mitigation of climate change, is that you ignore scientific evidence. [[Laughter]] I don't know why they laugh, because it's true they don't listen to scientific evidence. Also scientists, who say annually in the UN panel of experts that there is a problem of climate change, that we are already well above those 2 degrees at the end of the century, are people who do not count on their endorsement, are people who consider that they are not solvents, Your Honor? Because if that is the question, it is obviously very difficult to discuss with you. So did COVID, when you cast doubt on the effectiveness of the vaccine, on the contribution of science. [[Mr. Abascal Conde makes negative gestures]] Yes, of course, Your Honor, you did. Well, even on social media, there's been a video that says there was no confinement. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: That's what you said!-Mr.Abascal Conde makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, his political party. In any case, Your Honor, returning to climate change, this is a government that believes in the commitment to renewable energy, this is a government that believes that Spain has a great opportunity to become a green energy exporting power and this is a government, Your Honor, that will, of course, contribute, to the extent of our possibilities, to creating alternatives to the import of Russian gas. Your Honor, you claim to be those who defend the working middle class of our country. I do not know if it is going against the elites to say that depopulation, as I have heard them say, is because the Spanish and Spanish no longer believe that the only end of sex is reproduction. No, Your Honor, that's doing ridiculously colossally. [[Applauds]] The question, Mr Abascal, which should be asked is which museums you come from. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] What museums do they come from? Is it going against the elites to attack feminism, as you do in your interventions? We are very proud of feminism as a transformative movement, which embraces not only women, but many men in our country. Is it going against the elites to attack feminism in all its manifestations, to deny gender-based violence, as you do, or to reject women's right to voluntary termination of pregnancy? That's going against half the people in our country, Your Honor. That's what you do. On the Democratic Memory Act, I know I am not going to convince you, Your Honor, but let me say that on the Transition the explanatory statement says things like that 'the current Constitution was founded on a broad social and political commitment to overcoming the grave and profound wounds that Spanish society had suffered during the war and the forty years of Franco dictatorship. This consensus was the spirit of our political transition and has been the basis of the era of greatest splendor and prosperity that our country has known.' What objection do you have to how this explanatory statement defines the democratic transition in Spain? It says the explanatory statement of the Democratic Memory Law that 'the Transition assumed the democratic legacy and dignity that several generations of Spanish and Spanish had forged around the defense of democracy, the anti-fascist struggle in Europe and the recovery of individual and collective freedoms in our country'. What objection do you have to this text, Your Honor? Tell me what objection you have to the Amnesty Act in this explanatory statement: 'The first democratically elected Parliament since the end of the war passed Law 46/1977 of 15 October, a historic claim by the anti-Franco opposition... and this law was the virtue of amnesty for all crimes of political intentionality and violations of a labor and trade union nature'. The explanatory statement recognizes the Amnesty Act, the will to reconcile and build an advanced democratic society. What do you have against this text, ladies and gentlemen? What do you have against declaring illegal, as is done in article 1.3 of the bill, the regime that emerged from the military struggle that began with that military coup? Tell me what you have against what is said in article 16 of this bill, which is in the General Courts, which says: 'It will be up to the General Administration of the State to search for missing persons during the war and dictatorship, without prejudice to the powers of other public administrations related to that activity'. What problem do you have with the State assuming, in the first person, the exhumation of the corpses of the victims of the Franco dictatorship, in a country that is estimated to have a total of 114,000 disappeared during that time? To give us an idea, there are many more missing than in countries such as Colombia, which recognizes 70,000 missing, such as Argentina, with 30,000 missing, or Chile, with 3400 missing. I think we all have a moral duty to the victims of Francoism and, of course, I hope that the General Courts will endorse this Democratic Memory Act. [[Applauds]] I don't want to go in - I know you're looking for him, Your Honor - in that bronchial tone you have. You have said something very serious, which, of course, is respected, could not be otherwise, from this rostrum. You have told me all kinds of debarbarities, and I will not remember them, but you have used the term legislative crap - legislative crap, Your Honor - and you have set as an example the Democratic Memory Law, you have set as an example the law of euthanasia, you have set as an example the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy. I just want to say that, although it weighs you, Madrid has just celebrated last weekend a great feast of the Pride, and for those who wonder why we should continue to celebrate the Pride you are the answer. [[Applauds]] We must continue to celebrate the Pride. Do you know why, Mr. Abascal? We must continue to celebrate the Pride to return you to the closet, to the closet of history. [[One Member: Very well.-Applause.]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u53	I thank you very much for that low tone, disguised, which you have used and more in contrast to what you have used today against Mrs Gamarra. If I had to make a summary of what you said, I would keep that phrase that 'they should have applauded', that we should have applauded him; we know that's what you like. I am sorry, we have not supported your measures and have not applauded you, and it is very simple, Mr Sánchez, because, after a very quick reading of the reality, the Spaniards are worse today than before you approved your measures. For many false data that you bring us here, there is more inflation after your measurements, there are fewer savings and there are more difficulties to reach the end of the month. By the way, since 2019 no private employment has been created, only public employment has been created, destroying private employment in Spain. [[Applauds]] You are, as always, with science. Today I was coming with the healers and I thought I'd put it on him until I told him the healers were fake doctors. But, of course, today has brought us a magical solution, which is to lower it heating and lower the air conditioning, that is, colder in winter and warmer in summer. Is that a specialist's solution, a doctor's solution or a healer's solution? What you have done with that solution is to describe exactly the situation that you predicted yourself before you came to power if you had to agree with Podemos, that is, the situation of rationing charts, which in this case affect energy because it is the proposal that you have brought to the Spanish homes. [[Applauds]] I have not reproached him for having talked about other problems of the world, we obviously live in an interconnected world, but he has devoted half of his intervention in the debate of the state of the nation to talking about other nations that were not the Spanish one. By the way, it has made a passionate defense of the sovereignty of the Ukrainian nation, I encourage you to try the same with Spain, although I know you have difficulties, considering who your partners are. [[applause]] You've come here to tell a lie or, worse, a half-truth. He said that Spain is one of the least dependent European countries on Russian gas, well; what he has not said is that in the middle of the war Spain has multiplied by four its dependence on Russian gas. Do you think this contributes to the end of the war, that war that you believe is the cause of all evils? [[Applauds]] Today you have come to this House to try not to talk about the debate on the state of the nation, but about a lot of occurrences and fireworks that you brought in, which could be summed up by the phrase "who gives more"? He has come here, for example, to propose that young people be given crumbs that are taken away from their parents by abusive taxes. You've come here to say that you're going to fight the extraordinary benefits of electricity, very well. And the extraordinary profits of the state at the cost of inflation? Aren't they going to fight them? [[Applauds]] Because you could leave the money in the pocket of the Spaniards instead of using it in bribes with the excuse of guaranteeing social peace. You could reduce your Government, with so many ministers and ministers and so many advisers; you could reduce political and ideological spending; you could reduce the allocation to parties, trade unions and employers' organizations. That is never on the agenda of Mr Sánchez, the Socialist Party and the Left; in your agenda the only thing that is is to tighten up the Spanish. [[Applauds]] According to you, the solution is to bring here a battery of extreme ideological laws - because you have announced an impressive amount of laws that you will bring in autumn - to generate confrontation in Spanish society. You are the one who seeks it - even if you then lower your voice in this rostrum - with Bolivarian measures in all aspects that bring more confiscation, more taxes and, always, more public spending that Spanish society has to pay, that same society that does not arrive at the end of the month, that same society that has difficulties to care for their families and that every month, in every dish that it has to take home and in absolutely any movement that it makes in its daily life is being extorted by an increasingly voracious State. You have come with a series of Bolivarian measures that have a single objective, which is not to solve the problem of the Spanish, but to scratch a few votes to Podemos. There is nothing more to see than the face of your partners - puzzled, surprised and angry - when you have announced in this rostrum as your own measures that they have been claiming. Its only objective is to compete with that side of the Chamber to see if it gets a few more votes. You're not thinking about the Spaniards, but about seeing how you hold on a little longer in power. Mr Sánchez, you said this morning that you did not come to talk about the past, but you are already part of the past. All his lies, all his words, his projects, even many of those he has said here today, belong to a time that Spain needs to overcome. You're leaving, if you're not out already. You have demonstrated to your party, to your voters, to this Parliament, to your international partners and to the Spaniards that you have no word, that you have lied, that you lie and that you are willing to lie to be in power for one more minute. And the problem is no longer your lies, which we take for granted, the problem, Mr Sánchez, is that every time you talk - as I told you before - you literally raise the bread. As you spoke today in the rostrum, the Spaniards, the small savers, became poorer because of the collapse of investment and savings that many families have; every minute you are in the Moncloa the Spaniards live worse. We come here to say what we think of you, but also to give solutions, as we have been doing this whole legislature. We have come to say that Spain needs urgent and profound reforms and not the fireworks we have seen today. Spain urgently needs a Government to expel from the institutions they seek to destroy the nation. Spain urgently needs the repeal of all sectarian legislation and to regain the equality of Spaniards before the law and throughout the national territory and to expel from politics those who intend to divide us and confront us. Spain needs parents to be able to choose their children's education and our common language to stop being persecuted. You have come here today to talk about the digital language, as it could make many children who in Spain cannot study in Spanish, first of all, speak the common language. [[Applauds]] Spain needs a drastic reduction in taxes and the elimination of all unproductive political spending and that of the ideological propaganda to which I referred earlier. Spain needs a real separation of powers, not that you divide the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court, but that it is the judges who choose the judges. It needs independence from the powers, starting with the judiciary and following by the Attorney General's Office, which we already know who it depends on. Spain needs to regain energy sovereignty and to do so it needs to repeal all international legislation and agreements that prevent us from regaining that sovereignty. Spain needs to protect its field and industry, preventing unfair competition from third countries. Spain needs - although you never talk about it, because you have prevented it - a national hydrological plan that contemplates the interconnection of all the basins, the extension of irrigation and the increase of CO2 absorption. [[Applauds]] In short, Spain needs a firm and reliable foreign policy, without the pirouettes that you are accustomed to, and it needs a defence policy that guarantees our security, especially in Ceuta, Melilla and the Canary Islands, which you have failed to achieve despite celebrating NATO's lack of momentum here. Spain needs to recover its borders, deport the illegals, end the so-called effect and accept only an orderly and culturally assimilated immigration. Spain needs, in short - I tell you again, that I know you like it -, that you leave and that among all of us we build an emergency alternative to face the ruin that you have brought and left us, a Spain and an alternative that only responds to the agenda of the interests of Spain. You can stop sighing. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u54	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you've had a long time with this reply. [[Laughter]] On inflation, I believe that we have put on the table a package of measures that I have already mentioned in the first intervention. After Greece and Lithuania, we are the third most resourced country in the European Union to cushion the effects of inflation on our citizens. We have been talking about more than two points of gross domestic product for the past year. The new package of measures - which I hope can be validated tomorrow, which I believe is when it will be voted on as of 31 December 2022 - is a great opportunity for you to demonstrate a commitment to the working middle classes of our country and also to the most vulnerable people. I do not understand very well why you continue to say that we are evading - according to your expression - the working middle class of our country, when I explained both in my first intervention and also in the intervention that I have had in response to your approaches that there are 15.5 billion euros more collection, fruit of economic growth and intense job creation in our country; 15.5 billion euros that, for you to make an idea, is more or less going to cost us the extension of all these measures until 31 December 2022. I therefore believe that I am responding to your main concern. That extra EUR 15 billion that we have as a result of economic growth is what we are aiming to extend until 31 December the aid to the transport sector, the agricultural sector, the fishing sector, the EUR 20 cents, the freezing of the price of the butane or to issues such as the 80% reduction of taxes linked to the bill of light, minimum income and non-contributory pensions. Finally, I believe, Your Honor, that you are not right in this criticism, as in many others, and of course I think you have to make him look at it. I am very surprised to say that no private employment has been created in our country and, moreover, it asserts it. According to data not from me, but from Social Security - I hope they are created - who leads the job creation in our country precisely is private employment, 94% of the total, an increase of almost 910,000 new jobs linked to the private sector. [[Applauds]] She argues that all the measures I have outlined in my first intervention are Bolivarian. I do not know if the governments of Bolivia are also the French Government, the Italian Government, the German Government and so many other governments in Europe, but you return to the burden of the tax issue. I read the cover of Expansion, which I do not think is a media of progressive reference, where it is exposed that 'The guys on the rise drive the profit of the banks'. [[shows it.]] Indeed, listed banks are having a very important capitalisation over the past few months and also a very important development on the stock market as a result of the tightening of monetary policy. It is to say, I believe that, just as you falsely reproach the Spanish Government for not turning over extra economic resources to protect the working middle class and the most vulnerable in our country, we will also have to ask the big financial institutions and the big energy corporations to pull their shoulders together and help support the families and businesses of our country. This is a picture I think quite interesting as it shows that energy companies in Spain double the average profits of European companies. [[shows a graph]] This is the average of the European Union, a 10.8, and in Spain, a 20.1. We are talking about the benefits of Spanish energy companies doubling those of Europeans. And if we go to the evolution of the contribution of Spanish energy companies, we are seeing an accumulated difference of 40%. [[shows another graph]] That is to say, Your Honor, the same argument you use to ensure that the state, as it is doing, pays 15 billion euros in extra collection to protect families, businesses and industries also applies to large financial institutions and large energy companies. That's what we're doing, Your Honor. I therefore do not understand why you are opposed to the approval of these taxes, although I am obviously afraid that you are opposed to the approval of these taxes because you represent precisely that great capital and not the working middle class of our country. [[Applauds]] There is something that you, and the right, are using repeatedly and that is that Spain has 14% superfluous expenditure. In fact, you put it at EUR 60 billion that the state could save families. You have said that, and Mrs Gamarra has also said that in her speeches. Several things need to be pointed out: in Spain there are no superfluous expenses, what may be inefficiencies. Obviously, a superfluous expenditure is to create scholarships for the rich, for families of more than EUR 140 000; that is certainly not another issue. [[Applauds]] In any case, to what I am saying, that there are inefficiencies - not superfluous expenditure - is obvious, but the debate is whether they are 14% of public expenditure, that is to say, EUR 60 billion. I have asked where this figure of EUR 60 billion comes from, which is as surprising as it is false, Mr Abascal and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. This is an article that comes out of a think tank of the CEOE employer, of the Institute of Economic Studies of 2022, which, in turn, takes it from the preliminary version of an academic article with many methodological deficiencies that ended up being rejected. In the corrected version, which was accepted and published, this 14% figure no longer appears, it is no longer EUR 60 billion. In fact, Spain does not appear in this report at 14% below the OECD average of efficiency, but at 7% above it. That is, you do what you do is voluntarily ignore the revised version of the article and have preferred to use the rejected draft because it is much better suited to your argument, which is precisely to say that public spending is superfluous. To denounce the inefficiencies of the current state takes the data from 2013 to 2017, years, by the way, in which it ruled the People's Party, and ignores those from the period 2006-2007, years in which it ruled the Socialist Party and in which public spending increased and Spain was among the most efficient countries of the OECD. You are saying that there is an unnecessary expenditure of 14%, you have said on many occasions, EUR 60 billion, so has the People's Party. I hope that once and for all, although it has been a somewhat concrete explanation, they will abandon this canteen that there is 14% superfluous expenditure and let us really get into the debate. [[Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon: We did not say that]] There may be inefficiencies and we are open to reviewing those inefficiencies. In fact, we have passed laws to review public spending, we have also empowered the AIReF to do studies on public spending and its efficiency, but what is not inefficient is to support social dialogue, both at the state and at the autonomous level. Of course, we, your honor, are going to continue to bet on social dialogue, on the agreement between trade unions and employers, and I am very sorry that both you and the People's Party have been dragged precisely to stigmatise something that guarantees social peace and makes reforms go beyond the legislature because, after all, what we do is to bring about reforms with the great consensus between trade unions and employers. [[Applauds]] Little more can I say about your intervention, except that, as I said at the end of my first intervention in the morning, you are not going to take away our trust or breathe social fear. This is a resilient country, it is a combative country, this is a country that emerges from the crises, as we have demonstrated with the COVID, and that we will also do so with regard to this unjust and illegal war of Putin in Ukraine, but unfortunately we will do so again without his help and without his collaboration. You, in a cynicism - if I may say so - have come to say in your first speech that you were very sorry that we could not have reached agreement on this and beyond. You have been the only parliamentary group that every time we took off the phone to call the groups and try to agree on measures against the pandemic and against the war you have not even had the little shame of getting on the phone. [[Applauds]] With which, Your Honor, everything is said. In any case, Your Honor, don't worry, I'm sorry to have to tell you that the legislature will last until the end of 2023 and that I will aspire to win and that you will continue in the opposition. [[Applause. - (FR) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the members of the Government are on their feet.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u57	President, ladies and gentlemen. My first words are for you, Mr. President. In your last appearance we asked you to speak with other speakers and I was brave and to regain the political initiative, and you have done so today. Today there has been a change of script, a progressive rudder strike, which we have been demanding for a long time. Therefore, we thank you. [[Applauds]] Until recently, many said that it was impossible, as it was impossible for this coalition government to raise the minimum living income to 1000 euros or labour reform. I think that's the way, President. Let's keep making the impossible possible, let's get as far as we've ever gotten, because that's what people expect of us. [[The Lord]] In my balance sheet intervention I will go a little further than you, I will propose something different. You said you weren't going to talk about the past, I'm going to talk about the dystopic past, I'm going to do a dystopia exercise. Nightmares like The maid's tale or Black Mirror allow us to think of the present. I invite you to imagine Spain that it was not, but that it might have been if the motion of censure against M. Rajoy would not have prospered, and it could have been in the future if we didn't avoid it. Chapter 1 of the dystopia, Corruption Counterattacks. The PP, after the motion, would continue to rule despite being convicted of corruption, would continue to plunder. I would win the elections, but I would have to deal with VOX and announce the first reactionary coalition government of democracy. The first step would be the law of enemies of the homeland, with which many of those who are here would not be because their parties would have been illegalized. That's one of the star measurements of VOX. Chapter 2, The pandemic is coming, the Minister of Health - perhaps you, Mr. Smith - would baptize COVID as a Chinese virus. Spain would enter the podium of the contagions and the dead because the state of alarm would not be approved - today you, Mr.Abascal, have said that this was an undercover state of emergency - and, instead of scientists, you will consult negatists. The vice president - perhaps Espinosa de los Monteros - instead of a minimum income promotes a sort of aid or scholarship for the rich - that is, what Ayuso does in Madrid - and a reform to shield the garbage contracts. Temporality and unemployment would rise, and not a social shield would be generated, but a great social hole. What would that hole look like? It is not necessary to put much imagination to the matter, it is only necessary to see what the People's Party did when it ruled Spain in 2008, in the previous crisis, or what it does now where it governs: Andalusia, Juan Moreno fired in the middle of the sixth wave 8,000 sanitary staff; Madrid, Ayuso fired 6,000; Galicia, the moderate Feijóo - today present - fired 900 teachers and closed one out of ten public schools. Let's go back to the dystopia. Chapter 3, Return the 'A for them'. The reactionary government would reject the pardons to the independenceists, the autonomy would be threatened, in Catalonia TV3 closed, the Generalitat under the 155, in Barcelona would return the riots and the rattles, in Madrid the flags on the balconies and, again, the patriotic police. The Minister of the Interior would make evidence compulsively - as did his predecessor, the Minister of the Cloacas, Mr Fernández Díaz - against the political opponents, those opponents - I will not repeat here the insults - of which Villarejo was talking to Mrs Cospedal while this one was taking pictures with Mr Feijoo. Mr. Feijóo, you fell for moderates when you put VOX in the government of Castile and León, but now, when you don't condemn and you don't distance yourself from the mafia practices of your party, you start to fall for democrats. [[Applauds]] I know it's wrong to address you because you can't intervene today, but your PP, the new PP, looks a lot like the old one. On this, I would also like to convey a few words of support to a colleague who, like our formation, has been a victim of the sewers, media harassment and defamation, to Paul Iglesias. Fake news is a real threat to democracy. [[Applauds]] Let's go back to the dystopia. Chapter 4, Putin's invasion of Ukraine arrives. What would the government do with VOX to alleviate the effects of the war? That is also easy to imagine, it is only necessary to see what they have voted here. There would be no reduction in the bill for electricity, petrol or transport bonds and energy companies would be supplied at the expense of the citizenry. Chapter 5, Spain in black and white. The Ministry of Equality - which would have been closed for months because that is what VOX asks - will be replaced by the Ministry of the Family. What would have happened in that context with the right to abortion? Revoked, like in the United States. Angel Hernandez - do you remember? - would be in jail for helping his wife die decently. Sexual education would be deleted from the educational programme, as Mrs Olona proposes. Women would be more afraid to denounce their aggressors, the trans collective would be invisible and the egalitarian marriage persecuted, as where the extreme right rules today. Chapter 6, French Nostalgia. In that dystopia, this Thursday the reactionary government would pass the law of national memory, rather than a law of democratic memory. Franco would return with honors to the Valley of the Fallen, the ministers of that government would go to Mass in honor of the dictator as recently did Casado and the Francisco Franco Foundation would again receive public aid, despite exalting the genocide of half the real country. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, that dystopic nightmare, which is for many, is a dream for you. His vision of Spain is so narrow, it is so small, they fit very few. I remember again: we left 26 million people, the same number that they wanted to shoot those former soldiers who were talking about in their chat and that Mrs. Olona said they were theirs. That has not really happened, three years of progressive government have passed, and instead of these dystopia, utopias of the everyday have been built. Let us review what has happened to the chapters of dystopia in reality. Chapter 1, it would be called Social Shield. If with Rajoy there was precariousness, wage devaluation, cuts, privatizations, dismissals and mass evictions, there is now a social shield that, with new rights such as ERTE, minimum living income or the right to illness without being fired, would protect millions of people. Disbursements are suspended, unprecedented aid for self-employed persons would be granted - as has been granted - and pensions and public services will be shielded. If with Rajoy we cost corruption 90 billion euros a year - I repeat, 90 billion euros -, now we are going to pass a law of transparency and public money goes to the welfare state. If then the banks were rescued, now the people are rescued. [[Applauds]] Chapter 2, Dialogue. The independenceists regained freedom with the pardons, returned politics, instead of confrontation, lowered the nationalist temperature in Spain and re-established relations with Catalonia. At that point I would like to ask you, Mr President, you and the President of the Generalitat, with whom you are meeting this Friday. I would ask both of you for responsibility and courage. Responsibility not to miss a historic moment and courage to go further than we have gone so far. And that happens, in our view, inevitably by proposing to end that pre-democratic crime, that obsolete crime, such as the crime of sedition, and as we have been claiming for a long time. Chapter 3, labour reform. We have adopted for the first time a reform that recovers rights and puts collective bargaining at the centre. Yolanda, without you, without your perseverance and the union struggle, now we wouldn't have that reform in record numbers in social security membership, in indefinite contracts, in the fall of unemployment. [[Applauds]] We are proud of that legacy that carries your signature. Thank you for your work. Chapter 4, Spain's Rights. A law had only been passed, the right to abortion had been expanded. Irene, you too, thank you. Thanks to you and the social struggle of the feminist movement we have achieved rights that were unimaginable a while ago. Thank you for a trans law that puts us at the forefront of the international arena. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, stay with those measures. Don't fall into the right noise trap. The only photo of the shame is that of the yacht and the drug dealer with Mr. Feijoo. Chapter 5, democratic memory. Mrs Gamarra, the truth is that I regret that the same consensus that we have seen today from the whole House when you asked for a minute of silence, the same consensus of support for the victims of terrorism, is not possible with the victims of Francoism. I think that is an anomaly that distinguishes us from the rest of Europe. The truth is that, despite you, we are going to pass a law this Thursday that recognizes the right to reparation and justice. Therefore, thank you Martina, Enrique and all those who have made it possible. We owed it to him, it was deserved by the Puig Antich sisters, the purified teachers, who are still in the gutters, our grandparents and grandmothers who rose up against fascism, the exiles, Antonio Machado, Alberti, Joan Oliver, Cernuda, María Zambrano, Clara Campoamor, who were killed or died in the Francoist prisons, Lluís Companies, Las Trece Rosas, García Lorca, Miguel Hernández. They also deserved it from our parents, our mothers, who on the long night of Francoism broke their faces to bring us democracy, the tortured Agustina Martínez, Antonio Molina, María Salvo, Enric Pubill, Carlos Slepoy, Marcos Ana, Chato Galán. [[Applauds]] These people are part of our democratic DNA. These people are part of the DNA of democracy. And we have an obligation to remind them, not to forget them, because it was they who allowed us to win the present and that they will allow us to win the future, because that dystopic government with the nostalgics of Francoism is not unstoppable. Yes, it is possible, but to stop it we need the power of the progressive majority. We need to march together, despite the differences, to establish a yes can not be maximalistic, but concrete, tangible, where each victory points to the path of the next. That is why, Mr President, this historic bloc of investiture is not a lesser evil, it is the future, it is its condition of possibility. Today you looked to the left and we thank you, but sometimes we thought you looked too far to the right. And when that happens, things turn around. He says no, but sometimes he does, and now I'll give him two examples. First, with the highest inflation in forty years, with an increasingly stressed society, with more frequent, intense heat waves, like the one that now comes, with the price of the basket fired, people do not need tanks, people do not need a decree of war. People need decrees, a hundred social decrees like those announced here today, because after inflation there are the benefits of electricity and economic power. [[applause]] Increasing military spending will not lower the CPI or improve people's lives. The unlocking that you have announced today of public housing in Madrid is very good, we celebrate it, but do you know what we believe would really improve people's lives? To pass the housing law, to regulate the price of rent at state level, in all our cities. Thank you, therefore, to all organised civil society, which is pushing in that direction. Thank you also Ione, because that is the solution for us. Second mistake of the last few days, and I'm sorry to have to remind you, because there are thirty-seven people dead in Melilla, I'm sorry, but it's not a well-resolved operation. Many people have said this: it is the most serious massacre that has taken place in the last forty years on the border. It is unacceptable, it must be investigated, because Europe, the UN, Amnesty International is also asking us to do so. Those thirty-seven people had the same right to flee from the horror that Ukrainians arriving in our cities. They had the same right, by the way, to a minute of silence. I am not going to ask, but he drew attention, because when we ask for minutes of silence for the murdered women we were not given, and today we have seen how the Rules of Procedure apply to both of them. [[Applauds]] In any case, it's good that the president admitted it. Mr President, beyond that, we need not the president of the agreement with Morocco, but the president who is proud to save lives in the Mediterranean, the lives of the Aquarius. We need today's president, who plants in front of the electrics. As I said at the outset, today we are recovering the political initiative, but that last sprint also has to be done on the democratic and territorial agenda. There is only one year left to begin drawing a new territorial pact that recognizes plurinational Spain. There is one year left to pass a new law of the CNI or of official secrets, so that no Member of this House will ever again be spied on. There is one year left to put an end to the anti-democratic law or legacy of the People's Party. There is one year left to pass a law on freedom of expression, so that no rapper will ever have to go to jail again. At his last appearance, I asked him a question. I repeat: what legacy do you want to leave of the coalition government? What legacy do I want to leave? Suárez is remembered by the Transition. González, in spite of everything, for the modernization of Spain. Aznar for the war, the lie and the urban ball. Zapatero to get us out of the war and civil rights conquered. Rajoy for corruption and cuts. How do we want to be remembered? For the first job reform that recovered rights or for 2% of military spending? By the first law of climate change or by not repealing the law gags? For moving towards plurinational Spain or through a failed dialogue table? How do we want to be remembered? I'm on my way. Hannah Arendt said that the future is by definition an ocean of insecurity and hope, the promise, wings to imagine islands of security in that uncertainty. Last Friday, with Yolanda Díaz, he woke up a promise, a spark of hope, like the one we saw today in his speech, Mr President, a spark in the midst of the dystopic darkness of the right and the extreme right, a spark to dream more everyday utopias, because we continue to dream and take our dreams very seriously. [[rumors]] Just like that...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u58	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u59	...the spark will become flame, and the flame will become a better Spain. We know what legacy we want, what Spain we want. What about you, Mr. President? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and from some members of the Government, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u60	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Echenique Robba, who, like Mr Asens, is accumulating his reply here.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, after seven years, this House recovers the parliamentary tradition from the debate on the state of the nation. So far, this debate had taken place under conditions of bipartisanism, of almost perfect bipartisanism. There has never been a debate of the state of the nation with Unity We can, with Podemos in this House, and it is an honour for me to take the floor for the first time in this debate. And I intend to carry out humbly a useful analysis of how my parliamentary group sees the state of the nation, which, humbly and in my view, should be called, at best, the state of Spain, because, after all, our country houses more than one nation, more than one nationality, as the Spanish Constitution puts it, which is the same. [[applause]] From the outset, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that we very much appreciate the speech you have made, the announcements you have made and the turn that the Government has taken. We appreciate it very positively and we celebrate it. We have been saying for months that, after a time when we understand that the Government has issued some messages that disorient the progressive electorate on some issues, it was up to it to reorient the direction of the Government and to recover the pace of progress and courageous measures. And you, Mr President, have done that here today, with some measures that we have been asking for for a long time, such as further lowering the transport bonus - a very positive announcement you made today - by imposing extraordinary taxes on oil companies and large electricity companies. Like I said, we celebrate it. We are insistent people - some minister has called us, with affection, heads -. Yes, we are, but we also know when you are right, and you are right today in your speech and in your announcements, Mr President. And it has been right because the measures it has announced will not only serve to protect the social majority of our country, but also to look ahead to the privileges of the powerful, but also serve to regain the political initiative of the Government. We, as the Socialist Group, as you, Mr President, are concerned about reactionary progress, and we want this government to be revalidated in 2023, and we think that what has happened here today increases the chances of us having a coalition government again after 2023. I will also refer to some points where we have different points of view, but I wanted to start with the overall assessment, because it is truly positive. By entering the debate on the state of Spain, we have to start - you have done so, and I think you are right - with the state of the world. Indeed, at the beginning of 2020 we suffered the worst pandemic in a hundred years. This led us to have to confine the country, rightly, saving hundreds of thousands of lives, which obviously caused the biggest fall in gross domestic product in times of peace that our country had seen, as is evident in a stall in the economy as it was going to cause the confinement. Then, in a few months and thanks to science, we had vaccines for a new disease, thanks to scientific research and technology. This led to a strong economic recovery in our country. And when we were on that path, unfortunately, Putin, VOX's ally in Spain, decided to initiate an invasion of Ukraine on European soil. In what context is this invasion taking place? It occurs in a global context of loss of hegemony in the United States. Gradually, the United States ceases to be the only global hegemonic. The international board basically becomes a bilateral board between two major powers, the United States and China, with the United States, as I say, gradually losing that hegemony. In this scenario, Putin decides to invade Ukraine and, after a more aggressive first phase, Russian troops retreat to Donbas and also to the corridor between Donbas and the Crimean peninsula. And in this new, slower phase of the war, unfortunately, Russian troops are gaining ground day by day. Many analysts say this war will last a long time, and this is not good news. It is not good news because it has caused very negative economic effects, which you have described very well in your intervention. The high energy prices and the lack of raw materials lead us to have, for the first time in a long time, a two-digit inflation. In view of this situation, the Government of Spain has taken important and courageous measures. But in the face of a situation like this, in the face of a crisis caused primarily by exogenous causes, as you have commented, the administrations quickly find themselves with certain material limits. We are seeing how the European Central Bank is talking about raising rates, but, of course, as it is not an inflammation caused by an excess of demand, but by a contraction in supply, it is not clear to what extent an increase in rates will be able to contain it. We are seeing how even the most powerful country in Europe, Germany, sees with fear that there may be a shortage of gas in the coming months. Like I said, we're talking about exogenous causes. The Government is doing a lot, but there are material limits when the crisis comes from outside and this is the case. That is why, and this is where I want to insist, the only really effective measure - if I may - to avoid the economic abyss is peace. I think this is an absolute obviousness, that the sooner peace comes, the better. That is why our parliamentary group always puts on the table the need for early peace agreements. Because there is also a debate that I think is spurious. We are talking about whether geostrategy, international politics, moves by principle, moves by interests. I think it's moving both ways. We do not have to simplify the debate. In part it moves by principle and, in part, by interest. And I think that making an analysis of who benefits from the lengthening of the war is quite simple. It does not seem that the economic sanctions have broken Russia, the United States is becoming the first exporter of natural gas to Europe and, for the first time in many years, the euro has fallen so much that it has achieved parity with the dollar. And the people of Ukraine and, secondly, the European Union are the ones who are sure that the war is going badly. I don't think I'm saying anything wrong if I say this. So what do we think the Spanish Government should do in this situation? In view of the fact that Spain is not at war, but is suffering the economic consequences of a war, we believe that, first, we must make every possible effort for peace and, secondly, we must allocate all the public resources that we can protect the population and not increase the expenditure on armaments. [[Applauds]] Like I said, I'm not saying anything new that I didn't know before. Going back to the ads you made here today, as I say, we appreciate them very positively. Simply, from loyalty, I want to propose some more action that we think could help in the same direction. We believe that public health, public education and social services should be strengthened. You have announced an end to the interinity and temporality of tens of thousands of professionals. That's very good, but we also think we need to increase the number of professionals. That is why we have proposed that a State fund be set up so that the autonomous communities can take care of it and increase their staff in primary care, in the public mental health system and, in the educational field, in children's schools. We thought it would be a good idea. We also think it would be a good idea to speed up the family law with a 100 euro child-rearing aid for each child and with a care permit, so that people can apply for a work permit when they have to take care of a family member. We believe that we need to increase the investment in conciliation, in the Plan Correspondents, and that we need to follow that very positive path of increasing the investment in dependence. We also believe that it would be a good idea to directly attack the loss of purchasing power from the most vulnerable segments of the population by increasing the inter-professional minimum wage, increasing non-contributory pensions immediately or raising the IPREM, among other measures. And we welcome, as I say, the two new taxes that you have mentioned here today, but we also think that we should make a comprehensive tax reform in this legislature in order to be able to cover all this public investment in a structural way. And I say this to you for a very positive assessment of what you have announced here today and, moreover, for loyalty to the coalition government. We believe that the coalition government is an achievement of the 15M, the feminist movement, the tides of public health and the tides of pensioners. I remember in this House our parliamentary group shouting 'Yes can' when we won the motion of censure and I remember, Mr President, my parliamentary group shouting 'Yes can' when we invested him as President of the Government. We want a strong coalition and that is why we make these kinds of proposals and we are sometimes very stubborn. Many would like this government to break down and work hard to do so, as the right-wing governments in Madrid, Murcia, Castile and León or Andalusia were self-destructed, but that is not going to happen. We are going to work, as we have always done, to make this government stronger, and we think that the step that has been taken here today is in that direction. That is why we are celebrating, as I say, his speech, and that is why we are making some additional proposals to him and telling him that we understand that we must unlock the housing law and also the gag law, which has been in force longer after the motion of censure than during the Rajoy government. I think we should finish unlocking it now, Mr. President. [[Applauds]] And I am referring to this law because the state of the nation, the state of Spain, must also be assessed in democratic terms, from our point of view, not only in economic terms, and there, Mr President, lacosa is much blacker. This very weekend we have heard some audios in which a powerful journalist, Mr García Ferreras, talking to a mobster, with Villarejo, but also with the head of the Anti-Terrorist Brigade and with Mr Casals, admits to having published a false news knowing that it was false against Pablo Iglesias within a month and a half of the elections. And today we have breakfast new audios in which you talk about yourself too, Mr President, you talk about how you're going to make a mess of yourself. I'm sorry about the vocabulary, but that's what you say in these audios. I believe that many progressive people think that this is a serious threat to democracy. We think that the fact that people are going to vote on an election Sunday when false information is being disseminated with intoxications from large television channels is a democratic problem, and we would love to work together with the Socialist Party to deactivate and fight this media intoxication that is doing a lot of damage to democracy. [[The lady]] I'm from Podemos and that's why I'm not afraid to publicly say the name of Antonio García Ferreras for the record. There are very powerful people who do not stand for election and I think we have to say this in this Parliament. [[Applauds]] That fake garbage from Granadas was manufactured by Eugenio Pino, one of the members of the patriotic police of Mr Fernández Díaz, but a few days earlier we met some audios of Mrs Cospedal, who was secretary general of the PP, in addition to minister of defense and political chief of the army, asking for fake garbage from Villarejo against my political formation. And here I go to the second threat to democracy, Mr President, the PP. There is a whole stream of opinion that tries to convince us that as Mr Feijóo speaks low he is a very moderate gentleman and, moreover, he tries to convince us that by some kind of birthright the PP is a state party, but, of course, this is not supported in the facts, this is not true. With the theme of Cospedal, Secretary General until recently of the People's Party and Minister of Defense, conspiring with mobsters, Mr. Feijoo said that nothing happened here. This sounds a lot to Mr. Mariano Rajoy denying the Gürtel; that is, it does not seem that he has changed much with Mr. Feijoo at the front. [[Applauds]] Is it moderate not to condemn those audios? Is it state policy? Is that what a state party does, using state security forces and bodies, reserved funds, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence to try to destroy their political opponents? Does that make it a state party? I have my doubts, Mr. President. We have also seen a series of macho attacks on the Minister of Equality by meeting with the UN and the White House to highlight that Spain is at the forefront of feminist rights. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mr. Feijóo has come to talk that the minister was doing tourism, when he has photos doing tourism with Marcial Dorado in the Canary Islands, in Portugal, in the Picos de Europa... Is this state? Is it moderate to have these photos? [[Applauds]] I don't know, I'd say no. Not to mention - which you have not mentioned - Mr President, the General Council of the Judiciary. We're going to four years of blockage of the General Council of the Judiciary. Comrade Enrique Santiago one day said from the rostrum, and I agree with him, that it is a seditious behavior on the part of the People's Party. It is more than unconstitutional, it is already so obscene that it is directly an attack on democracy. [[Rumors]] Is that what a state party does? Persist for more than three years the governing body of the judges? I do not think that is moderate or State, Mr President. And, in fact, I believe that something should be done by the progressive majority to prevent this legislature from ending without renewing the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr. Feijóo accused you of wanting to try to carry out an electoral fraud, which is what Trump said in the United States and what ended up with a marabunta and a horde of ultra-rightists assaulting the Capitol and murdering cops. [[Rumors]] I do not know whether this is very moderate or is a state policy on the part of the People's Party. I'd say no, Mr. President. [[Applauds]] And I'm done. Mr President, the government has the challenge of facing this decisive moment in our country by recovering the initiative and taking courageous steps, as you have announced here, and I think you know that that can only be done with the majority of the investiture. He spoke of healers, rightly, and spoke of relying on scientific knowledge. I believe that if something is a scientific fact, it is that the PP is neither moderate nor a state party, and I think we have seen it too many times, Mr President. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And I think that saying that it is moderate or that it is a state party, first, it is in danger of the thing ending as it ended in Andalusia, that it is not something very flattering, but that it is also a lie; moreover, it is a lie. Recently, Mr. Abascal in an interview said something very curious. He came to say that one of VOX's ideological victories was that now many people think PP is moderate. He failed to add: when they are actually as far-right as we are. [[Laughter]] This did not add to Mr Abascal. I ask you, Mr President, that we do not fall into Mr Abascal's trap, that we remove the measures that we have to take in this second half of the legislature, with the majority of the left, with the majority of investiture. And that you don't need to keep reaching out to PP, we've already found that you're never going to catch it, in fact, I think that every time you tend to tend to what you think is to cut it off. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Asens and Mr Echenique, for your words. By picking up Mr. Asens' glove, rather than thinking about how we want to be remembered, I think the important thing is that this government does not forget who it governs, and it is for the working middle class and for the most vulnerable groups. I say this because it is true that one of the components of our DNA, as progressive left-wing political formations, is unconformism, always claiming something else, I think this is very important. You have referred to utopias and I join them, and you have also acknowledged the work of some ministers and ministers of the Podemos United Nations in the Government of Spain. I remind you again, and I say this with all due respect, that for me, of course, all ministers and ministers are ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain, no matter what their political affiliation, be it the Socialist Party or the United We can, and, of course, both Yolanda and Irene and Ione, as well as Alberto and as each and every one of the ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain have my support and with my appreciation, more would be lacking. Because in the end, Mr. Asens, it seems to me that no doubt... By the way, Mr Subirats, Minister of Universities, too. [[Laughter and applause]] This is the problem you have, Minister, the important thing is that I have had reflexes and I have said it. In any case, what I want to say is that, on many occasions, on the left, we emphasize our differences more than our joint achievements, which I believe are many and I believe they must be valued. It's said: a left turn. It's not a left turn. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that if one really analyzes objectively, surely with mistakes and with the difficulties we have had in these very complex times, all the policies we have put in place have been policies in favour of the working middle class of our country. If you look, even knowing that our adversary, the People's Party and the far right, more the People's Party than the far right, avoids criticism of the content of many of these policies, because you know that they are part of a common sense that transcends even the citizens themselves - let's say - of progressive affiliation; I have said this on many other occasions. I believe that raising the interprofessional minimum wage to EUR 1000 is something that not only the left-wing voters applaud, but I am convinced that many voters from other political groups too. The upgrading of pensions under the CPI is also a social conquest of the left for the social majority of our country. If we adopt a law of euthanasia, if we update the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy or if we adopt - I look at the Minister of Social Rights - an important law such as Rhodes law to defend children and adolescents from all forms of violence are contributions from the left that we make to the social majority of this country. If you look, after all, the criticism made by the right and the right is with whom we take many of these laws forward. They always set the examples of peripheral nationalisms, when in reality the question we would have to ask back to the right is why they are unable to pass these kinds of laws. [[Applauds]] Here's the thing. And if they don't, it's because they're defending other interests, and in this I think we both agree. I say that because, for example, when we have imposed the tax on large energy companies or also on financial institutions, in fact, they are only coherent steps that we have been taking since the beginning of the legislature. This is also a government of the first in the world, Mr Asens, which passed a tax on large digital corporations, even before what the OECD had established or before many European Union countries, we were among the first. We were also among the first to approve a tax on financial transactions and, of course, we are now announcing these two taxes. I believe that these are really proposals that are consistent with the fiscal policy that the Spanish Government has been maintaining since the beginning of the legislature. I believe that what they do is not turn to one side or another, but to reaffirm a path that we have taken from the beginning of the legislature in fiscal justice to have social justice. Indeed, we have made great strides in the field of ERTs, ICOs, self-employed or minimum living income. Earlier, in response to the People's Parliamentary Group, he gave some data, but I believe it is also important to emphasize that solidarity and social justice are more equitable and effective in responding to crises. However, I will give you one more data. In the previous financial crisis, that of the last decade, 3.6 million jobs were destroyed and unemployment reached up to 27%; that is, there were more than 6 million unemployed people in the first quarter of 2013. In the financial crisis, Spain took eleven years and ten months, i.e. twelve years, to return to the level of employment we had in 2008. Remember what were the criticisms and comments made by the right, that we were going to have 6 or 7 million unemployed as a result of the drop of 10 points in gross domestic product, and, on the contrary, in fifteen months, not in twelve years - as it did during the financial crisis as a result of the response given to it -, Spain regained the level of previous membership, and today, two years later, there are 1 million members more to Social Security than before the pandemic. And this is something that the right, however much it tries to distort and twist the data, cannot fail to recognize because, at the end of the day, they are real data that affect the day-to-day lives of our fellow citizens. Both you and Mr Echenique talk about defence and security and tell us that we cannot invest more in defence and less in social justice. I think we can do both, and I think it is also our duty to do so. In my first speech, I believe, first of all, that, regardless of what happened on the part of Spain, in the end, the economic and social consequences of the war were to suffer and that if we did not give a united and responsible response to those allies, not anymore from NATO, but also from the European Union, who are asking us to increase their deterrent capacity so that the aggressor, in this case Putin, does not enter their territory and therefore violates national sovereignty and territorial integrity, we would do ourselves a little favour if we did not respond to that call for solidarity. And I believe, secondly, Your Honor, that it is our duty, especially of the left forces, that we have the experience of what happened 90 years ago in our country, when the allied countries left the weather and left Spain and joined us in a fascist dictatorship for forty years, in a dark age, as you have well mentioned before; we, the left, have yet a greater duty, a greater moral responsibility with those people who are now losing their lives in Ukraine or defending their nation against an aggressor, as it is in this case Putin. In that context, Your Honor, this Government is a Government that has supported social justice and public policies linked to social policies, and we can and must bet on the security and defence of our country. Your Honor, the world has changed on 24 February. Unfortunately it is, and it is not for us. I have said this on many occasions: Ukraine was not a risk, it was not a threat to Russia. Russia wants now in Ukraine is the same as it has done in Belarus, to have puppet governments, governments that oppress their fellow citizens, governments that persecute people for their ideology and beliefs, that imprison them, that torture them, that kill them; governments, in short, that do not respect the popular will, the freedom or the desire for freedom of their fellow citizens. We, Your Honor, cannot remain on the sidelines, especially from the Spanish left, and I think we need to open a calm, serene debate, but also honest with ourselves and our citizens about the need to improve and increase our deterrent capacities. No one wants to attack anyone, Your Honor. If you look at it, we have said it in many other debates. There are always wars, war conflicts between two different political systems: between autocracies and democracies. There have never been, throughout history, wars between democracies. Think about it. And if so, Your Honor, what we will have to do is to increase our deterrent capacity precisely so that these autocrats do not violate a fundamental principle that drove us out of the street when the United States violated the principle of territorial integrity and invaded a country like Iraq, because right now we have to do the same with Ukraine. [[Applauds]] I believe, Your Honor, that this is something we need to reflect on. On migration, I am very sorry that you mentioned those statements that I have already said publicly on many other occasions in interviews that were statements that I made before knowing what we later knew. But it also serves me this reproach that it makes me to remember again when I made those statements and, of course, what I said later when I knew those images. In any case, Your Honor, this government has been a government that among the first decisions it made - you claimed the Aquarius - after the motion of censure one was to regain the universality of public health for irregular immigrants, since precisely that universality broke the previous administration of the People's Party. We have put in place measures such as amending the regulation to improve the employability of unaccompanied foreign minors; or, thanks to the good work done by SASEMAR, over the past four years we have rescued 128,000 people, human beings, on the Atlantic and Mediterranean coasts. We are from the few countries, not to say the only country - I believe - in Europe that does not need the support of NGOs to ensure that our public servants rescue at sea those people who are at risk of losing their lives. All this also does not have to remove us from the demand to point out the real culprits, and the real culprits are the mafias, Your Honor. You can tell me, and I share it with you, that what happened on the border with the Autonomous City of Melilla is the last chapter of a tragedy that begins many miles away and many months before. I have set the example in some interviews I have given over these weeks in Sudan, a country that had a per capita income in 2020 of 300 or 400 euros a year when we are talking about that in Europe in those years there was a per capita income of more than 30,000 euros a year. With this, the distance is so enormous, so ironic, that it is clear that a country that has had a coup d'état, that suffers famine, that it suffers persecution against people who do not think like the regime, that it is also suffering desertification as a result of climate change, what it has to do and what it does rightly is to look for other opportunities, and they are looking for those opportunities in Europe. I have always advocated, both at the European Council and at the Rabat Summit, sponsored by the United Nations, and in all the forums where I have spoken about Spain's migration policy, that migration policy cannot be a'security' issue. We do not have to talk only about defending our borders, which, by the way, is also a responsibility of the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen; there are images that I believe must be condemned by us. They cannot be attacked with sticks, axes or hooks the borders of our country. We must not, nor can we, from the left, allow that in the end to be a flag that has only the right. Our responsibility is to defend the borders of our country and it is also to recognize - I do not want you to say so too - the work of the state security forces and forces, which were also wounded as a result of this violent attempt to assault the fence. And this does not mean that I do not recognize the humanitarian drama behind this irregular migration, but I believe, as I said before, that the phenomenon of migration is so complex, so glassy from the perspective, that a serious analysis also has to lead us to recognize that the Government of Spain has a complete vision of a complex phenomenon such as migration, of helping countries of origin, of helping countries in transit and also of integrating those migrants who arrive in our country, whether on a regular or irregular basis, and that is what we are doing. [[applause]] We have done so with the amendments to the regulations of the Aliens Act; we are also doing so, Your Honor, with projects that I think are very interesting not only with Africa, but also with Latin America, of regular circular migration so that, in fact, people who return to their countries, return with more training, with economic capacity to be able to undertake business and have an economic development in those countries. In short, Your Honor, of course every human being is a migrant; past generations have been migrants, future generations will be migrants, and we owe ourselves to that migration. Your Honor, I want to say that I made those statements without knowing the images, which, of course, regretted them, would be missing more; but I believe that if we make a serious, calm and honest analysis from the left, we have to recognise that this government is a government that is doing frankly good things for migration in our country and also beyond our country. [[Applauds]] About Catalonia, you appealed to responsibility and also to boldness or courage. I think we have taken steps in that direction. I hope we can convene the table as soon as possible. On the legal amendment that you have told me, I have always expressed the same. The Spanish Government has always stated that one of the main lessons we have to learn from 2017 is that we have to standardize the criminalization of certain crimes in the great European democracies. The Spanish Government is open to doing so, but we have to be aware, Your Honor, that I do not see today a parliamentary majority in order to carry out a reform that I, without a doubt, have from the beginning - and I do not hide myself - I believe that we must do and that sooner or later we will have to do in our country. I thank Mr Echenique for the tone of his speeches and for the proposals made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I am told that, in relation to the housing law, it is in parliamentary procedure right now and we are dealing with the amendments of the groups, also of the Group of the United Nations Podemos. I believe that we have already negotiated well before we adopted the preliminary draft law in the Council of Ministers, to see if we can get it out as soon as possible. In relation to the clean game, with the Kitchen and with what you have commented - indeed I have known today that I have also been the subject of some conversations - I say to you that, for my part, all solidarity with the victims who have been the subject of misinformation and campaigns of this kind; they have all my solidarity, it would be missing more. Furthermore, as we have sometimes commented on the conclusions of the Kitchen committee, I believe that both Catalan independence and the United We can and also the Socialist Party were the subject of the work of a poorly-called patriotic police, which was used precisely by the right to pursue political opponents and also to hinder the investigation of justice in cases of corruption affecting their party. I believe - and you have said it well - that the silence of the opposition in such serious cases that we are seeing right now in the media is a serious warning also to the citizens of our country. Because those who do not ask for forgiveness, those who do not condemn these behaviors, mean that if they ever come to the government, they will be able to do the same again. I think that has to be a wake-up call for the whole of Spanish citizenship and, without a doubt, also a call to the responsibility of the People's Party to say today, here and now that they will never again be in the hands of characters like Villarejo. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u65	Debate on the state of the nation, one sentence and three lies. The first, because this is not a debate. A debate in which some of you even bring the written replicas is not a debate of ideas, it is a script reading. The second, because what nation? Here the only thing that is unique is a State that has and that, in fact, retains different nations or national sensitivities. [[Applauds]] ; and its Constitution says so. And the third is state as a synonym for situation. A nation is its people, and here, ladies and gentlemen, there is very little talk about the state, about the situation of the people; about the state, about the situation of the people's lives, because, ladies and gentlemen, living has become very difficult in this country last year. Mr President, congratulations, you have risen from the left today. Congratulations. [[Laughter and applause]] You have come today to sell us, to give us great headlines for a better future. I come today to give you data on a present that I feel worse. Mr President, in the last year, light has risen by 107 %; petrol by 53 %; onions by 50 %; diapers by 36 %; eggs by 35 %; hake by 30 %; salmon by 29 %; potatoes by 25 %; milk by 23 %; rice by 22 %; oil by 21 %; butane by 20 %; tomato by 18 %; bread by 12 %; lamb by 11 %; chicken by 10 %; and melon by 102 %. Mr President, today people are 3000 euros poorer than a year ago. Today there are 57% of the population who do not eat as much and as often as they should. Today there is 33% child poverty. Today there is 28% youth poverty. Today there are 30% of the population who never buy clothes anymore. Today there are 15% of the population who cannot put air conditioning in summer and heating in winter. Today, Mr President, 96% of cleaners are anxious and 40% are depressed. Today, three out of four workers do not have an agreement linked to the depreciation index. Today, 88% of companies do not have trade union representation. Today there is only one labour inspector for every 25 000 workers, 25 000. Today two out of three pensions is less than 1000 euros. Today, the gender pay gap is now 36 %. Today there are 33,000 people living on the street every day. Today 94% of the population thinks we're going to get worse, and I think they're right. Today there are 11 suicides a day in this country. But there is more data: today, there are also five large electricity multinationals in this country, which distribute four times more profits than ever before: EUR 10 billion a year. Today, the billionaires in this country are more millionaires than ever before, specifically, EUR 6 million a day; and today, large multinationals are paying less taxes than an autonomous. This, Mr. President, is the state of your nation. [[Applauds]] Mr President, normality for many people today is not the law, it's not what we say here, it's not what we discuss here, it's not what we discuss here, it's not what we approve here. Normality for many people is not what happens in Congress; normality today for many people is what pays in the super. We didn't get to the people. For everyone to understand, what we say here sounds like the gourmet club's megaphony, as people walk through the super freezes. Here's the drama. And while, poor eating, sweets, frozen, diabetes and overweight are already normal for many people. And, Mr. President, being normal is not normal. It is not normal that today eating fresh meat and fish or that today eating seasonal fruit and vegetables is something infinitely more expensive than eating a bollycao or frozen potatoes. And it is not precisely because the farmers and the workers in this country cover more. If a democracy is based on the majority of money and not on the majority of people's current needs, it is simply not a democracy. And this, Mr President, is also the state of your nation. [[Applauds]] Mr President, inequality is a battle between classes that has always, always, always lost the working class. 'I want to go for it all,' you said. It looks great: Let's go get them all! Do you want to go for it all? We urge you to work now on a new tax system based on justice, because the opposite of poverty is not wealth, it is justice, and justice is neither temporary nor extraordinary, like almost all the initiatives you have presented here today. Justice is either permanent or not, and there are only three ways to achieve social justice, three ways: redistributing, redistributing and redistributing. Mr President, over the past 15 years, in this country, an additional 30% has been collected by IRPF and VAT and, at the same time, 40% less has been collected by company tax. The data sings. There is an urgent need for a new fair tax system that is not so hard on families and not so lax on companies. It is urgent, in short, for everyone to understand, that in this country, once and for all, they pay a little less for families and a little more for large companies. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr. Feijoo is not here, but surely you will be able to give him the message, because I am not going to ignore him, as President Sánchez has done. You, with Mr. Feijóo at your head, come to say that here you pay a lot of taxes. Against what account, data. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, do you know that Spain is the fourth economy of the European Union, but the eighteenth in collection? Do you know that in Spain €68.4 billion is no longer collected each year? Do you know that Spain is the third most unequal country in the European Union? Do you know that in Spain 75% of taxes are paid by families? And do you know that in Spain the last ten years the millionaires have multiplied by five? You know that? It is true that in this country many taxes are paid, but it is not done by the ten-milleurists and the commissioners that you defend; it is done by the working class that you ignore. [[Applauds]] A point about international politics, and here I turn to both of you again, because they think the same and do the same. Mr Sánchez and Mr Núñez Feijóo - you are not here, but you will be able to pass the message - you cannot react to what is happening in the world or to what is happening on the border of Ceuta and Melilla as the rich of a rich urbanization to which the poor suddenly enter. That is not a serious international policy, it is not. Questions for both sides, for the PSOE and for the PP, because in this they do the same. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the PP, why are 130 Africans assaulting the fence a mafia and 130 000 displaced Ukrainians a cause? Why? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, why kill sticks - sticks! - and bullets on the southern border of Europe is less serious than killing bombs in a shopping center in Ukraine? Why? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, what is the difference between Putin slaughtering Ukrainians and, for example, Erdogan slaughtering Kurds? What's the difference? [[Applauds]] I already answer the first question: because the first are blonde and with blue eyes and the other not. [[Applauds]] I tell you, because they needed Morocco as a security guard for the fence even at the Saharan coast. By the way, look, Mr. President. [[Place three bullets on speaker's rostrum]] Do you know what they are? These are bullets that my partner Maria Dantas picked up on the border of Ceuta and Melilla with which they killed thirty-seven people. [[Applauds]] They're bullets. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: I won't let you call me racist]] You didn't, the Moroccan Gendarmerie, and you said it wasn't so bad. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Don't call me racist.-Protests]] You said it wasn't so bad. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Don't call me racist. Don't call me a racist!]] Why is the 2% increase in defence required by the United States so important? Is it to protect people or to please NATO? Why is it? I say this to you: because in exchange for all this NATO considers Ceuta and Melilla NATO's territory and, therefore, in the face of any threat to territorial integrity - and I read it textually - NATO will enter. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] That goes for a jump to the fence and a referendum on self-determination, by the way. [[Applauds]] But in addition, if we add up all the defence items that you have been hiding for almost 40 years in different ministries without practically anyone protesting, we are talking about an annual expenditure - for example, this year - of EUR 21,623 million in defence, which is almost 2% of the GDP - almost!, is 1.8% - requested by NATO. Therefore, it is a lie, ladies and gentlemen, it is a lie that requires an extra military effort. In fact, Spain is already the seventh largest importer/exporter of arms in the world. In Spain, weapons worth EUR 3300 million are sold annually. Yes, it is true - and I say this as a representative of the left - that in this world no country can guarantee its security on its own and that the right to self-defence is sacred, but this Atlantist fever responds only to one objective, to the goal longed for by the United States for many years to have a polarized world with a 'organized' Europe; a polarized world supposedly between democracies and dictatorships. But, that's right, the Qatar Football World Cup. [[Applauds]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have you ever wondered why, after so many measures approved these years, you are being trampled on electorally by a gentleman who is famous for taking pictures of a narco on a yacht and a gentleman who goes on a green beret but who has not even done the militia? You're asking? They wonder why they don't make money on what they're doing? You're asking? I'm telling you, because it's simple and cruel. First, because they're very raccoons. They are very rattan in what they do, and the measures announced today by the President attest to this; and, for example, the fact that they have only met 36 and 42 % of the budgets in Catalonia and in the Valencia Country, respectively, also attests to this. Secondly, above all because of the brutal - brutal! - media pollution that this country suffers; a pollution that also attacks, like any other, public health. Ladies and gentlemen, a country in which people are told every day when they go out for a while to buy the bread that a feminist from below for having the rule will miss the floor, turn it into an abortion clinic, change sex to their children and make lesbians to their daughters with a Buzz Lightyear movie and a photo of Irene Montero is a country in which a decent government will never make money for what it reads. Never! Mr President, it is no accident that citizens are exposed every day to lies that exactly coincide with the agenda of the right and the right; lies about crimes, about politics, about services, about taxes, about immigration. [[Applauds]] It is not by chance that people know much more about the Falcon or Irene Montero's travels than about what they have agreed for twenty-five years seven builders as if they were a cartel. [[Applauds]] It is not normal and only responds to a formula that has made the far right win all over the world, from Bolsonaro to Ayuso: slices in the street, judicial war and lies on TV. And this is also the state of your nation, Mr. President. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, we can all support Mr Villarejo's published audios. It is said by someone who represents the political movement of independence, who is in 5th place of judicial, media and police repression. In fact, do you see that lady over there? [[Point to Mrs. Pozueta Fernández]] It's Bel Pozueta from Bildu. You see that lady over there? [[Point to Mrs. Bassa Coll]] It's Montse Bassa, Republican Left. They are, respectively, the mother and sister of people who are unjustly in prison because of the same people you are chasing today. [[Applauds]] I wish now every time we say that the following are you listening to us. Proposal, Mr President; and I hope you will take it into account, because you said that you would take it into account. Alberto Coronel has already commented on this in El Salto these days. Mr President, just as we legislate against environmental pollution because it does not let us breathe in a healthy way, as it does against noise pollution because it does not let us sleep in a healthy way, we should legislate against media pollution because it does not let us think in a healthy way. Lying, falsifying and manipulating in a chat should have the same consequences for a company as a spill or a CO2 emission, because hatred is born out of lies, ladies and gentlemen, and hatred is born out of monsters. A clear example is the ectoplasm of Francoism and social sister-in-law VOX. [[Applauds]] VOX, apart from being the party of the fourth Cuban, is a huge machine of resentment and hatred greased for years in some media. Another clear example, as you have said, Mr President, is the United States. The U.S. Supreme Court has just handed down three of the most reactionary sentences in its history: the first, in favour of carrying arms without control of the Administration; the second, against abortion; and the third, in favour of polluting emissions. [[a Member of Parliament: Bravo!]] They put the clock on a hundred years ago. The formula, ladies and gentlemen, is clear: reactionary individualism, macho fundamentalism and extreme right-wing anarchism. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it is not just Putin and China who threaten the democracies of the world, and to the same extent it is misinformation. I urge you, Mr President, to legislate against media pollution, as you deserve, because this is also the state of your nation, because this nation has sometimes, instead of being a democracy, been a plutocracy. [[Applauds]] But much more is needed, Mr Sánchez - and, I dare say, Mrs Díaz - to stop Mr Feijóo and Mr Abascal. It takes a lot more than smiling a lot, saying that everything is going to be fine and, above all, trying all the time to talk without bothering anyone. It takes a lot more and that something else is military in utility. The left need to breathe military in the utility, military in people's lives, and that has a name: fill refrigerators. We need to fill the refrigerator with people and, from there, whatever it is. Military in utility, ladies and gentlemen, is military in the most important of people's lives, in the most useful, in the most shared. But what is most useful? What's the most shared thing? What does everyone want to go well, think what they think, vote what they vote? Three things: school, work and family. In short, learning, working and wanting, loving. Who's against this? No one. If we are capable of military and of making policies in this, we will be able to stop them. One, school, learn. Public and quality school, because society, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, is equal from school and because the rights so that they are not privileges have to be public from daycare, so that it is not worth the same as a polo club, up to the university and beyond, so that, for example, no one stops being a judge, doctor, dentist or whatever they want to be simply because they cannot afford to oppose four or five years. [[applause]] Mr President, if democracy is the mechanism that the working class has to limit the privileges of the powerful, much more democracy is needed, for example, so that the daughter of a newspaperman is a judge than the child of a judge needs. By the way, a point about this, about the school: the language; some of you love this subject. Neither the Spanish is persecuted in Catalonia - in fact, I have been talking about it for a while and it is not costing me much, ladies and gentlemen - nor is Catalan an exclusive heritage of independence. [[laughter and applause]] [[Applauds]] I repeat, neither the Castilian is persecuted in Catalonia nor Catalan is an exclusive heritage of independence. Either we understand this or we do a weak favor to a language that deserves protection and does not give vassal to the Spanishman. Two, work, work. Life, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, cannot be - it is not - working all week and going to the supermarket on the weekend. That's not life. Mr. President, life in this country can't be seeing your children less than your bosses. That's not life. We need to devise policies that better distribute working hours, work less to work for all; policies, ultimately, that go far beyond the minimum living income; policies that encourage shorter working days and ensure the most basic needs of the citizenry; ultimately, policies that aim, for example, at a universal basic income because of the simple fact of being a citizen, an income that would greatly stimulate domestic consumption and that would give people a brutal freedom, for example, the freedom to tell an exploiter boss and his precarious work: No! Here is the power of a universal basic income. By the way, a point about this. The labor reform has an extraordinary press, and I'm glad. In the Republican Left we are delighted, enormously happy, that every month there are more indefinite in this country; I can assure you, Minister, we are delighted. We are delighted that in this country more and more people have that vital security, and I tell you from experience that you are going to sleep a much quieter one being indefinite than being temporary. Now, what's that worth if they can fire you on the same terms as when you were temporary? What's that worth? And that's simply because there were those who preferred the CEO to the Republican Left. [[Applauds]] Against the story, data: almost 9.5 million people charge less than 1000 euros a month, and that the labor reform is incredible; 50% of contracts in this country are partial, and that the labor reform is incredible; there is an average of 40% youth unemployment in this country, and that the labor reform is incredible. Several groups have presented an initiative to try to expand labour reform. I am convinced, Minister, that you will agree and will help us, because before'summar' you have to listen. [[Applauds]] Three, families, to love, to love, that everyone can love whomever they want to love, as they want to love and when they want to love, and with pride. Recognition and progress in civil rights are crucial and much remains to be done. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the right and the right, neither divorce compels you to divorce, nor homosexual marriage forces you to be homosexual, nor euthanasia forces you to die, nor abortion forces you to abort. Rights do not force anything; the right, yes. The opposite of abortion is not life; it is the dirty backseat of a store, for example. You're not interested in life, you're interested in the control of women's bodies. [[Applauds]] I ended up with two statements of intent. The first, I am convinced that the homeland is the other and that Catalonia is above all the name of a place on the planet. I am convinced that independence presupposes nothing, that the independence of Catalonia or the Catalan countries presupposes nothing, that they may be free republics or equal or not be. What I can assure you is that, if it depends on Republican Left, they will be. [[Applauds]] I am convinced that being an independentist doesn't make you better Catalan or Catalan, that so Catalan and Catalan is an independentist, an autonomist, a federalist or a mid-pensioner, and it's part of our responsibility to say it and rule like that. [[Applauds]] But above all, I am convinced that in democracy everything can and must be talked about, as the Council of Europe in Resolution 2831 of June 2021 obliges you, Mr President. I will always defend the dialogue and negotiation table, because Esquerra Republicana does not talk to the PSOE because we are the same. Esquerra Republicana talks to the PSOE because we are diametrically different, because it is our job, because we are committed to that and, above all, because there is no alternative. [[Applauds]] By the way, I hope that you will not continue to do mathematics and return to the path of politics, such as, for example, in the law of democratic memory, which Mr Felipe González does not like; call him X. The usefulness of Esquerra Republicana in this Congress is clear: thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana, a law of dignified death has been maintained and revalued; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana, dismissal has been prohibited during the casualties; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana, a law of dignified death has been adopted; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana, the fight against macho violence has been strengthened; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana, children have been protected; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana, a law of science has been approved; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana, the situation of the interims has been increased and extended; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana Republicana, medals have been withdrawn from the assassins and fascists in this country; thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana Republicana, the situation of the interim people has been extended hundreds of aid that have been saved today by the negotiation and the non-national institutions have saved to the life and the economy, a minimum vote of votes in this country, thanks to the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing in politics is free and anyone who says otherwise simply lies. [[knocks on the rostrum]] Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group, applause put to the vote]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr Rufián, unfortunately, we already have precedents in the House for the use of various objects in the rostrum and I have to reiterate what I have done on other occasions. The power of parliamentarianism, the power of freedom of expression, is rooted in the use of the word. That is why I urge you, as you have urged all Members, to make exclusive use of it in the rostrum, also for the decorum of this House and, above all, for the respect of all its members. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rufián, I sometimes recognize your parliamentary brilliance, but I believe that today you have been wrong, and you have been seriously wrong, Your Honor. The mere display of bullets in this Chamber is an unforgivable error, an unforgivable error precisely in this Chamber. [[Applauds]] Not even for evidentiary purposes, not even as an effective trick. Congress is not a criminal court, Your Honor, it is not; it is the temple of the word. Bullets came in here - yes, Your Honor, bullets came in - they're in the roofs of this Chamber and they were brought in by thugs. You're wrong, Your Honor, you're wrong. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]] Give me the left card again. I thank you; I thank you. You're the one who issues the left hand card. He gives me that recognition today. I wish you had also risen from the left and voted in favour of labour reform, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] What an obsession you have with the second vice president of the Government of Spain! She can't defend herself. I have to talk here because she can't intervene. If you have something to discuss with Mrs. Díaz, do it with her. What an obsession you have to say that Mrs. Díaz and the Government of Spain preferred to take a picture with the CEO and not with the Republican Left! We made it with the unions, Your Honor, with the General Workers' Union, with the Workers' Commissions and with the employers. [[Applauds]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you one thing: if a Member of the People's Party had not made a mistake, we would not have 80% of indefinite contracts today. [[Applauds]] So, Your Honor, in fact, apply the story and militate on the utility. [[Applauds]] By the way, Your Honor, for me, as Secretary General of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and as President of the Government of Spain, of a progressive coalition government, as important are the refugees of Ukraine as the refugees of Afghanistan and as all the migrants we are saving on the coasts of Spain, on the Atlantic coast or on the Mediterranean coast, thanks to the commitment of public services. [[Applauds]] So, Your Honor, please don't go that way. You say we have to talk about people's problems. I believe, Your Honor, that I have spoken about the main problem of people; perhaps I have done so with little success, given their intervention. I said that I was not going to talk about how well things are going or what we have done so far, that we were going to talk about the present and the future. I have tried to make a pedagogical diagnosis and, in addition, I have used the simile of the specialist doctor and the healer to explain the origin of the evolution of inflation in our country and also in Europe. I have used reports from the International Monetary Fund, the Bank of Spain, the OECD and the European Commission to explain that more than 60% of the price developments in our country come from the energy shock and also from the food shock that has caused, one, the pandemic and two, the Putin war in Ukraine. I believe, Your Honor, that this is an honest analysis of the situation. I said that I was not going to talk about the things that are right, but about the things that are wrong and what are the solutions that you have put on the table or that you are going to propose the Government of Spain to your ladies and gentlemen so that they can be validated. I have talked about the things that we are doing at European level, such as, for example, the gas ceiling on the Iberian peninsula; or the reform of the electricity market that we have proposed to the European Commission and which, at last, seems to be opening up in the autumn of this year; or all the aid that we are putting in place for this part of the year to protect precisely the families, businesses and industry of our country. I have said this before, and I think I have also been eloquent in remembering that, after Lithuania and Greece, Spain is the country that most economic resources are going to protect families: more than EUR 30 billion. Is that enough? It is clear that we do not have a magic wand to be able to solve the problem of inflation overnight, which we are going to need answers at multilateral level, at European level and also at national level, and there he invited his parliamentary group to help us support many of the measures we are putting in place. Of course, Your Honor, I have spoken about the tax reform and the measures that we have put on the table and that we have announced in the debate on the state of the nation; or also about the 100 per cent bonuses of rolling stock, the proximity and the medium distance in the companies that are state-owned; or about the 30 per cent that we are also going to set in motion for the autonomous communities and the municipalities. I believe, Your Honor, that we are deploying a rather strong, rather powerful social policy for the challenge ahead, which is that of inflation. I have told you before, Your Honor, that, of course, we have always opted for peace, through diplomatic channels, but, look, there is nothing more to listen to what Mr Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, has publicly said at the recent G-20 multilateral summit in Bali. He said they want to win peace on the ground. The position of the government of Putin and Lavrov of Russia in Ukraine is therefore firm: what they want is to continue the invasion. And I believe that, as a progressive force, you will agree with me that what we have to do is to be with the aggressor and, therefore, to respect international legality. On the proposals, ladies and gentlemen, what do you want me to say to you? About scholarships. You're talking about the justice scholarships. We have approved precisely scholarships so that young people who have no resources can oppose judges and prosecutors, and we have recently withdrawn the call for them. About the workdays. I have referred to the Spanish Government's commitment to digitisation in order to increase productivity and, consequently, to reduce working hours. On basic income, to which you have referred, you know that this Government has approved a minimum living income, especially for the most vulnerable families and, in particular, for children who are suffering from poverty. And on fiscal justice, as I have previously mentioned to other speakers, this is a coherent government in its fiscal proposal. We are going to approve a tax on financial institutions, a tax on energy companies, a tax on certain digital services, financial transactions. It should also be remembered that in the general state budget of 2021 we set an effective minimum rate of 15% in corporate tax for large companies. In addition, the general budget for 2021 raised two points in the rates applicable to labour income above EUR 300,000 and three points to capital income from EUR 200,000 in the income tax of natural persons. Can it be said that we have to do more? No doubt. We will be willing to listen to what your proposals are, but what cannot be denied, ladies and gentlemen, is that this government is left-wing, progressive and militant in its usefulness. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause. - (FR) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the members of the Government are on their feet.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u69	Thank you. Mr. President, don't be mad. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: I am not angry]] I have absolutely nothing against anyone, but it is that this is not a debate about the state of politicians or about our relations, this is a debate about the state of the nation, of what you consider to be the nation. I've tried to talk about what I think people care about, because, I repeat, I think there are a lot of people - and it's not always your fault, I said it, it's also the fault of the media pollution, and I think these days you're getting noticed - you don't get it, you don't get what we do here, and you like it more or less, you have to talk. I think they're raccoons. They are raccoons in some things they approve of, in some things they do, and I have set the example of labor reform, but not because I have mania to anyone, but because labor reform had a few majorities to try to get to what for ten years a lot of left-wing parliamentary groups promised it would be done, and there was one who decided that it had to be done with CEOE and Citizens. [[applause]] By the way, I understand that now Citizens are left-wing, right? Dialogue and Negotiating Bureau. You, Mr President, have literally devoted a phrase to the political conflict - and it is empirical, it is not debatable; it is lentils - that the Spanish State is still living with Catalonia, because, like it more or 'guste less, there are two million people, there is a majority in the Parliament of Catalonia which is what it is and which votes what it votes, and that, one of two, or it is going with judges, with police and sticks, which has already been tried and does not work - there has been no independentist who has stopped being independentist by putting Oriol Junqueras in prison - or by the negotiated way, the way of dialogue, which we support and which we defend. [[applause]] And there is something that is also empirical, it is not even a warning or a threat, and it is that the failure of the path we represent, the failure of the path of negotiation, is not a failure of independence, it is not a failure of Republican Left; it would be a failure again of the Spanish left, again! They haven't learned anything from Zapatero, they haven't learned anything. History shows us that every time you fail independence goes up. They don't learn! When we say'sit down', 'negotiate','speak', it's because it's the only possible way. That you go dragging your feet, that you tell us first that there are elections in Castile, that then there are elections in Madrid, is to hold us responsible for your votes in Burgos. We do not hold them responsible for our votes. I do not know where, because it is part of our responsibility as politicians and as politicians, as public representatives, to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. [[Applauds]] You, how do you want to get into history? Do you want to pass on to history as the one who tried to solve the political conflict that empirically live Catalonia and Spain or as a - let me say it - socialist president more? It's up to you. Besides, look at something. If there are elections again - general elections, when there are - and these people do not add up to be an absolute majority - that is to be seen -, it is quite likely that, if you start looking, Bildu will go the same or better, the PNV will go the same or better, the More Country will go the same or better, Compromís will go the same or better, and we, I don't know, but we just keep the type. You're a historic party with a local in every town. They're pretty likely to keep the guy. It all depends on the political space that Mrs Yolanda Díaz represents today. It all depends on that. But if you are not able to give the people of Catalonia - and I dare say Euskadi - solutions, these people will pass over you. If we are not able to give them solutions not only at the national level, but at the social level, as I said; if we are not able to fill the refrigerator to people, these people will win by simply flagging us. So, I have nothing against anyone, I just try to be clear and everybody understands me. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u71	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. I appreciate the tone of this replica, really. I appreciate it because I think it is more constructive than we had in the first of your speeches. I thank you for correcting it, because I believe that it can indeed be hard in interventions without disrespecting the person and the House. [[applause]] And that's it. That's where we left him. I believe that over-action is indeed not good. He remains obsessed with labour reform, and I really believe that he has no reason to be the opposite vote of the Republican Left to a good labour reform, a good labour reform for many workers - here are the data - also for young people and women. On the dialogue table, I would like to say that there has been a meeting of the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya with the Minister of the Presidency, Félix Bolaños, where a methodological agreement has been reached on how the dialogue table should work and how it should work. I think there is a very important element. You have spoken about judicialisation, but you have not referred to something that I believe is fundamental, and it is that in that methodological agreement we begin to work on concrete agreements, on concrete steps that can bring the distances closer, which are, in fact, very large between you and us right now. We are present - the coalition government as a whole - at that dialogue table, and it must be acknowledged, Mr Rufián, that it is difficult to go to a dialogue table with two governments, one of coalition - the Spanish Government, which is present - and another of you, with only one part, not both. That is why I, publicly, have always asked the other part of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, in this case, to Junts per Catalunya, to bet on this dialogue table and to join it. I recognize the Republican Left's courage in participating in this dialogue table. However, I would like us all to be able to start reaching concrete agreements, which are plausible for the whole of Catalan society and also for the whole of Spanish society. Mr Rufián, I would like to make a request to you, and it is that this request for dialogue which you logically put to the Government of Spain, you also have in Catalonia, and that you talk to the other side of Catalans and Catalans who do not believe in the independence theses. [[Applauds]] Of course, Mr Rufián, we will always bet on dialogue, and I hope that we can soon reach an agreement and hold that dialogue table. Nothing more. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause. - (FR) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the members of the Government are on their feet.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-12-CD220712.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and forty-five minutes of the night. Error correction.- In the Journal of Sessions, No. 199, for plenary meeting No. 192, held on Thursday, 30 June 2022, on page 45, third ballot, where it reads: '... abstentions, 91 plus 9 telematic votes, 108'; it should read: '... abstentions, 91 plus 9 telematic votes, 100'.
