ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. This plenary session, as you all know, includes the debate and adoption of the opinion of the draft organic law laying down rules facilitating the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences, amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September, Financing of the Autonomous Communities and other related provisions and amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. In view of its organic nature, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Accordingly, pursuant to this provision, he announced that such a vote would not take place before 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u2	We continue with the point concerning opinions of committees on legislative initiatives and, in particular, on the draft organic law establishing rules facilitating the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences, amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September, Financing of the Autonomous Communities and other related provisions and amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also establish a position at this time, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u3	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG has submitted amendments to this draft organic law, which sets out rules to facilitate the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, on the grounds that it is a law that violates individual rights such as the right to privacy, insofar as it facilitates access to the financial title file to state security bodies and forces, to the police, without control and without judicial authorization. This seems extremely dangerous to us. We believe that the fight against crime in the financial field, against money laundering, cannot under any circumstances justify the violation of citizens' rights, and we find it more worrying because it adds to other laws - in case of transposition of European directives - which the BNG also rejected, such as the Organic Law on the Use of Passenger Name Registration Data for the Prevention, Detection, Investigation and Prosecution of Terrorist Crimes and Serious Crimes, to which we are currently submitting amendments to the whole, and which also requires the provision of passenger data... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u5	... for the preventive investigation of possible crimes. Preventive depending on what? Based on criteria like being foreign, being Arabic, being black? Anyway, we also find it very dangerous. And the Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data also facilitates police access to individual data without judicial control. Therefore, we cannot endorse laws that go in the sense of moving forward in a police state that, under the pretext of fighting...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u6	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u7	...against crimes, violates individual rights. So we are going to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u8	For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u9	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to intervene in this point of defence of amendments, but the fact is that PeCAT already incorporates the amendments in the opinion of this organic law on the use of financial information. We include a very special amendment because it is the one on the issue of multirecidence in small thefts. Therefore, in general, we agree with the law, but we do want to celebrate the incorporation of the work that PeCAT has been doing for a long time to combat multirecidence in those small thefts - of the wallet, the keys, the mobile - that cause organized gangs to accumulate twenty, thirty, forty or one hundred criminal records, but that since they are thefts of less than 400 euros in which there is no theft and no violence, but what is there is the exploitation of the person's waste, in these cases there was a feeling of total impunity. As we usually say, these people came in and out of the police stations of the courts the same day they were arrested. Addressing the issue of multirecidence was an essential issue in the area of cities - mine, Barcelona city, for example - but also in the rural world, where sometimes the theft of small tools of work also represents a great loss. And it is that this problem affects shops, restaurants, tourism, but above all people, people who don't have to be just tourists, but they can perfectly be older people who go down the street or people who are in a bar having a coffee or people who take public transport. In this area, we understood that there was a surgical amendment to the Criminal Code to combat multirecidence, and we have been working on this for almost a year now. Finally, through this organic law we can access the amendment of the Criminal Code, with a proposed amendment and a surgical change that the whole sector also considers very good. We are convinced that it will be a great solution to the problem of multirecidence in small thefts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u11	Thank you, President. This law has generated so much consensus that there has been little debate. It is logical; the establishment of rules that facilitate going against financial fraud, against money laundering or the financing of terrorism is something that puts us in agreement with all the groups in this House. But, as on other occasions, a consensus law covers some other issue, in this case the amendment of the Organic Law on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities, by which the waste tax is added to the list of assigned taxes. I want to make it clear that, as you know, this amendment is not the one we asked for from Catalonia, but it was the lesser evil we had to accept in the Senate. We wanted to maintain the Catalan ownership of the tax in line with what is happening in Italy, Belgium or the United Kingdom, where it is possible to discriminate fees by territory. But this government has had little interest in respecting a tax that it has applied to Catalonia in an exemplary way for eighteen years, raising 120 million in the past year. From now on it will be an assignment of the Spanish Treasury. They want to congratulate the Catalans on the fact that the State can delegate to Catalonia the application and revision of taxes or the sanctioning power, and they even put on the medal that the fee will be able to be charged directly without having to wait for its adjustment - or we should say misadjust - of annual accounts. But there's a difference of 20 million euros between what's going to be collected now and what Catalonia was getting before, which we're going to have to charge in arrears while we cross our fingers, because we know how bad payers you are. Only 37% of the commitment to Catalonia by 2021 has been executed. In the last six months the figure is scandalous, only 7%. They have accumulated 12 billion investment deficits, as the Honourable Councillor Jaume Girórecently explained, because they systematically do not apply and fail to comply with the 2006 Statute. Let us remember, the state must invest every year in infrastructure in Catalonia, corresponding to the weight of Catalan GDP, 19%. Foment del Treball recently unveiled the macro-deception of budgets, which amounts to almost 35 billion over the course of twelve years. And how is this possible? It is very easy: the government records year after year, sometimes up to fifteen years in a row, budgets of works that do not go forward. Every year we are told that we will be paid this or that, it is millions of rains on account of territorialized investments that never arrive, and that is to manipulate the accounts. And you are already doing well, because it seems that the Catalans are always asking, but it is obliged to do so: we contribute 52 billion in taxes to the state's accounts; we estimate that they give us back 40%, and I say we estimate because you sell yourselves as the kings of transparency vis-à-vis Europe while you refuse to facilitate the situation of fiscal balances with the state. Because we do not comply - we insist - they do not even meet their own budgets. The amendment of the Extraordinary COVID Fund Boards of €9 billion was approved in the general state budgets, 1600 for Catalonia. We are in the seventh month of the year, in the seventh wave of COVID, and it seems that you are still in the seventh heaven, while to us the feeling that gives us all this is that you are increasingly far away from the earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u13	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This draft organic law, whose adoption we are discussing today, is intended to transpose a European directive of 2019, 1153, the aim of which is, within a context of judicial and police cooperation, to allow certain authorities and officials access to and exchange of information of a financial nature in order to make possible the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution on European soil of a number of serious crimes, being one of the most important to combat those linked to terrorism and its financing, and this is expressly mentioned. Terrorism on European soil is today particularly linked to Islam, although consensus is progressing - and, of course, this government and you, Minister, too - deliberately conceal it from us because you think it is a small detail. [[Applauds]] And they hide it from us so that it is not evident what millions of Europeans had the opportunity to witness in May in Saint-Denis, Paris, that the multicultural experiment that you have introduced in some neighborhoods of our cities has turned them into outlaws of religious fanaticism, hatred and crime. Directed against whom, Minister? Against ourselves, against our women, against whom we have welcomed them with stupid generosity, while you were singing your promises of an inclusive socialist paradise. [[Applauds]] It is clear that socialism, in any version of it, is the opium of the people. And the reality, progressive ladies and gentlemen, is that with their foolish policies these neighborhoods now house caves of terrorists and other criminals, from where money is collected and soldiers are recruited to attack us in our own land. Hence the desirability of having tools, such as the one introduced by this European directive, to allow the cooperation of authorities and officials to trace sources of financing for serious crimes such as terrorism. But, of course, if our authorities and officials discover with the financial title file or with any other instrument that uses a money-gathering focus in one of those multicultural neighborhoods, also known as no-go zone, how are they going to get to the criminals? You, Minister, surely know what kind reception our police receive when they dare to enter some of those areas. Look, I'll show you. [[Shows several press clippings]] News from El Faro de Ceuta, April of this year: 'The National Police intervenes a assault rifle in the Prince's district', in Ceuta. 'This is how they receive the National Police in the Prince's neighborhood this morning.' 'Men and adults receive the local police stoned in Prince Alfonso's neighborhood'. 'The Prince, the neighborhood where basic community services are to be provided, should be escorted by police.' And this is happening in Ceuta, Spain, Minister. [[Applauds]] And this is the model of coexistence to be exported all over the world, as some Member said here two days ago? What is here is a lot of ignorance about the reality of the Islamic world. If you want to know, I'm going to give you three names to find out, you can Google them: Asia Bibi, Deborah Yakubu, Maria Jusuf, from the town of Borda. On the other hand, the European directive does not require you to assign powers of international communication to the autonomous police. That has been invented by you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, because you are still obsessed with the mantra of co-governance. With the current model, the only possible governance is that everyone exercises his or her powers by assuming his or her own responsibilities, and always - always - with the Government of Spain as the ultimate responsibility for everything. Therefore, international relations between authorities and officials should be dealt with by the Government of Spain, with its institutions and under its control. Because, as far as I know, Minister - as far as I know - the Spanish Government today has no control over autonomous police, such as Basque or Catalan police. And how can the Spanish Government ensure that the commanders of these police, appointed by governments that do not assume their membership of our nation, will behave loyally when their own governments do not do so? Can you ensure that the local police share with the National Police and the Civil Guard all information about risks and crimes? It is clear that we have no longer seen this, for example, on the occasion of the coup d'état of October 17 in Catalonia. The autonomous police forces are only empowered by constitutional mandate to participate in the maintenance of public security, because public security is the exclusive competence of the State; hence the need for our amendments, because the threats affect us all Spanish and do not understand autonomous borders. [[Applauds]] Since it could not be otherwise, we also do not think that they should take advantage of this bill to introduce a new tax, that of waste, through amendments by the Socialist Group, and also to give new powers and money to self-government. It is seen, ladies and gentlemen, that they do not miss any opportunity to put our hand more in our pockets. You socialist ladies and gentlemen, and your conglomerate of communists, coups and flounders are already out, you are in free fall, as VOX grows election after election. [[Applauds]] If you still have a minimum of shame, save yourself all the more suffering Spaniards and let go of those who can bring order and, above all, decency. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing an organic bill that has changed to the title during the parliamentary process, concerning the establishment of rules that facilitate the use of financial information for the detection of criminal offences. In that part, we fully agree, little more than adding to what the European Parliament's Directive 2019/1153 plans to introduce into our legal system. It must be done and done soon, and hence the speed with which the paper has developed. Having said that, this Government is impossible, it is a disaster as great as its disastrous management during these years. He told them that the organic bill had changed its name during its processing. Doesn't it really embarrass you that these things have to happen in this House? Let's go to the facts, let's go to their traps. They have used a law in which we were all in agreement on nuclear matters to place amendments that have nothing to do with the content of the bill, an absolute disregard for parliamentary practice and fraud. Because the amendments are so significant that the title of the law had to be changed by the back door. Without consultation with the Autonomous Communities and without consultation with the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, as required by the seventh transitional provision of the Waste Law, they have proposed, with an amendment to a law that has nothing to do with it, an amendment to the law on the financing of Autonomous Communities to transfer the communities the management and collection of this waste tax and even to allow them to raise the tax rate. Ladies and gentlemen, at the back door you are committing an institutional, instrumental and democratic fraud, and you are bringing to this House an amendment that will forever bury your speech of co-governance. What co-governance do they speak of if they have not sat with the autonomous communities, as required by law? With whom has this been agreed, ladies and gentlemen? It is another assignment from his weak Government with his partners in Esquerra. Explain to the Spaniards how they go against their own principles to content their partners, which assure them that they have smelled their extreme weakness and will have no limit on their voraciousness. This instrumental and democratic fraud, ladies and gentlemen, is not the only one, the trapicheos to which we are accustomed are constant and we suffer them in this House one day and another too. Last week, a law of transparency came out of Congress in which, through an amendment, taxes on fluorinated gases, the so-called cold tax, which threatens to take thousands of jobs ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, please explain to the Spaniards how much their air conditioners or dryers are going to put up with this 10% reform. Why do they not explain to the Spaniards that, through the back door and nightly, they have raised taxes on this tax voraciousness that this government has? They are insatiable and there is no rule, parliamentary use or good practice to stop them. The Spanish are paying more than EUR 2.15 per litre of petrol; inflation is on the rise; the price of flour and eggs is rising by 25%; olive oil by 36%; butane by 33%: families are putting the washing machine at four in the morning so that they can reach the end of the month because the light has risen by 30% in the last year. With all this, you are in what you are in: to raise taxes, to skip all the procedures that it takes to govern at the stroke of decree or amendment, to keep on kneeling before your partners. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, they are ruining Spain for many generations. They are incapable of managing our country's economy. They live in improvisation, on the loose rope, with their submission to their Esquerra partners, as they do with this amendment, and to their Podemos partners or to those of Bildu. And do you still miss your stupendous failure in Andalusia? [[Applauds]] You, far from thinking of those Spaniards who suffer to fill the shopping basket, who are passing them canutas to arrive at the end of the month and fill the deposits of their cars to go to work, in which they buy an air conditioner and can not use it because it becomes a luxury item, far from thinking of all those Spaniards, choose to commit this type of instrumental fraud through the back door and collate tax rises or collate amendments of laws that affect the autonomous communities without giving them even information or opening negotiations with them. This is their model of governance which they presume, which is nothing more than a democratic fraud in every rule. Ladies and gentlemen, there are millions of Spaniards out there who are suffering and who do not deserve this, who need solutions to their problems, who need certainties, who require high policy, and not these frauds and subterfuges. There are millions of Spaniards who look at us in the hope of finding a solution to their problems, not to put more stones on the road or to raise taxes on them. The Spaniards are looking at us, looking at us, and in the People's Party we know it perfectly well. The Spaniards demand high policies and know that they can count on us, with a party that whenever it has had the opportunity, whenever the Spaniards have given us the opportunity to govern, we have managed this country well. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u17	We are a serious and responsible party. Therefore, although this law was appropriate and necessary, we cannot validate its abusive and fraudulent practices with our favourable vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u19	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi, good morning. Firstly, he announced the meaning of our vote. We are not going to validate this decree law until we accept the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego which refers to the necessary judicial authorization to listen to any citizen. It seems to us that it is a logical and guaranteed measure that would have to be incorporated de facto, especially in order to avoid this House and the citizenry, either bearing the name Pegasus, Villarejo or any other reality to which, unfortunately, they are so sadly accustomed in the Spanish State. In any case, in the end, with this debate comes the usual time when there is an omnibus decree in which everything belongs: in this box of tailors that involves talking about small thefts in multirecidence, talking about money laundering or tax evasion, or talking about new taxes and the necessary link to autonomous financing, each chooses his or her theme and each comes to talk about his or her book, although there are also those who come with the book for any topic. In this particular case of the omnibus decrees happens what happens: this is a succession of interventions where each puts the emphasis or emphasis on what concerns him most or on what seems to him most relevant and timely of the royal decree. We certainly cannot abstract or subtract ourselves from that reality and will comment on some issues. We believe that there are elements of the real decree that are necessary and of common sense, such as those that have to do with the pursuit of money laundering. The data speaks better than us and us about this reality. Everyone probably already knows that money laundering in the Spanish State, despite being pursued, is quite relevant. There are data from Gestha or other institutions, such as the Tax Agency, that place the economy submerged in the Spanish state at 11.2% of GDP - according to the Tax Agency - or at 25%, according to Gestha. It is certainly also known that tax fraud and money laundering reach billions in terms of circumvention of public coffers. It could be said without blush that every citizen of the state loses around 136 euros for the money that those who do not need to multi-offend, because they have money to the fork, decide not to expose it to public light and, therefore, hide it. There are real examples - real examples or 'emeritus' examples, as you might say - quite obvious that international justice usually makes a difference. It is enough to say that the Ministry of Finance in 2018 pointed out as a milestone to have recovered 15 billion euros. Not bad, but if we contrast it with another fact that is also true, that that means only 20% of all the money being laundered, there seems to be a lot of scope to be able to be more effective. That is to say, 15 billion are recovered but 60,000 are still being lost - which would be the equivalent of that 80% that cannot be detected - and, if everything were recovered, there would be money to respond to all those deep concerns that have put on the table all those who have preceded me in the use of the word: fuels, the price of electricity...; all those issues that hurt us so much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u21	In any case, we believe that the fact that the State is more effective in persecuting the crime is reasonable and positive, but we ask ourselves a question: what happens when it is someone on behalf of the State who decides, through illegal forms - i.e. by perpetrating a crime - to prosecute or investigate citizens of the Spanish State? This isn't even an entelequia, an assumption, or a rhetorical question that asks me about something that hasn't happened. This already happens in the Spanish state. There are already instances not of the Spanish State, but of other states or realities, such as Andorra, which decide that we must investigate when someone - such as Fernández Díaz, then Minister of the Interior, apparently in the company of some other people; as they are supposed, let us call them, for example, M. Rajoy in order not to allude directly to anyone, since the justice has decided that this person does not exist or nobody knows his whereabouts - decides to use public resources to carry out practices that, of course, are not legal. We would like those gaps to also be addressed or filled in on such issues. If not, you can continue to say that the independenceists are the evil of all realities, you can even blame us for the results in Andalusia of others, but the sad, evident and true thing is that the independenceists are investigated, persecuted and viewed in ways that are neither legal nor coming in a state that is called democratic. The Spanish state will surely be able to boast of occupying good places in rankings, but still today the reality is that other states - either Britain for 'emeritus' issues, or Andorra for issues of ministers who lie in Congress, such as Fernández Díaz - have to draw the colors to the democracy of the Spanish state. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u22	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u23	Thank you very much, President. To intervene briefly to welcome the adoption in the Commission, and we hope that today in plenary, the transposition into national law of Union rules on financial information for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the Union's security architecture has as its axis the construction of a framework enabling Member States to combat any serious and organised form of crime, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism and financial fraud. To this end, we are now dealing with the transposition of Union legislation for direct and immediate access to centralised bank and payment account registers - here called the Financial Ownership File - by those authorities competent to combat serious criminal offences, including comprehensive autonomous police, as otherwise could not be in the context of the constitutional bloc. Ladies and gentlemen, as the memory of the project says, your Gordian knot revolves around access and consultation of the Financial Ownership File through a fast and effective mechanism, such as direct and immediate access to end the current slow and insufficient model of access and exchange of information. This is a sine qua non requirement for the investigation of serious crimes to come to fruition. It is precisely for the same reason that the directive being transposed does not refer to any reservation of national procedural guarantees, i.e. that no prior judicial authorization is required for the competent authorities, specifically security forces and bodies, to have access to financial ownership files. In this way, the disappearance of the judicial authorization is one of the fundamental changes in Union law with regard to the previous regulation in this area so that investigations can reach a successful conclusion, as I pointed out to them. Judicial authorization is not required for the competent authorities to have access to the data in the Financial Ownership File because it excludes from direct and immediate consultation those data that integrate what is called the economic privacy of persons, i.e. those that allow a forward-looking image to be drawn on the way and conditions in which a particular person develops his or her private life, such as balances, movements, income and transfers. However, those relating to the financial products and credit institutions of holders or persons with powers of disposition do not constitute disproportionate invasive action on their fundamental rights, such as the right to economic privacy, as they do not reveal a personalized financial situation, but are essential for a first approach to the places where economic rights potentially linked to serious crimes are located. [[Rumors]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall that, as the Constitutional Court states, interference in privacy demands the existence of a prior judicial decision only in the cases expressly provided for in the Constitution, since there is no prior absolute reservation of judicial intervention, and these interventions may be adopted provided that an organic law expressly empowers it - as will be the case here - for the authority which is competent because of the matter under consideration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the current situation requires judicial authorization under the already replaced European directive does not condition the future organic law, which we are dealing with today, which is based on prevention in order to maintain prior judicial authorization. I would even like to point out to you that none of the Member States that have already transposed this new directive on the subject has required or provided for prior judicial authorization. We will therefore not support the amendments they are proposing. In another matter, ladies and gentlemen, I do not forget either - it has already been pointed out - the new treatment that is dispensed to the serious problem of recidivism in small thefts that, after the penal reform of 2015 and the jurisprudence on it, had remained with a criminal reproach that did not satisfy either general prevention or special prevention. [[Rumors]] I'll finish it, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this legal provision will take an important step in the construction of the European security agenda to combat serious and organised crime, complementing the existing provisions for the pursuit of the use of the financial system for money laundering, the financing of terrorism and other serious forms of organised crime such as financial fraud. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of background noise. I ask you, please, to respect the speaker. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u25	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The first feeling I have, after listening to some of the previous speakers, is that here we have read this rule Mr Legarda and I, because the truth is that he has magnificently explained why there is no need for judicial authorization. Mr Matute has said that this is a royal decree law, but this is an organic bill. He said that here we each come to speak of our book; he spoke of his: of Pegasus and of listening. I haven't read anywhere in this organic bill that has anything to do with Pegasus, listening or anything like that. This bill also involves the implementation of a European directive and serves the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of serious criminal offences through the sharing of information by the state and autonomous services, in our case, which are precisely responsible for prosecuting these offences. It's that easy! It is that Spain cooperates with other countries that provide this information and the other countries cooperate with Spain by providing this information. I have devoted my whole life to pursuing tax fraud and one of the problems we have had many times that we have put on our toga and we have investigated tax fraud is the lack of cooperation or cooperation in disbelief, cooperation by dragging the feet of some of the countries, including the European Union, which have certain financial instruments that are used by the Spaniards to defraud. The Minister of the Interior also knows that very well. We are being given a number of excuses here to vote against the application of the transposition of these directives. Mr Rego tells us about the judicial authorization and Mr Matute, too. This has already been answered by Mr Legarda and that is what I refer to. It is simply about access to the Financial Ownership File, not the data on people's economic privacy. After that, once these financial assets are identified, the relevant judicial authorizations will allow access to such data. [[Rumors]] Mr Ruiz de VOX is a great lawyer and he is a person who works very brilliantly in the Committee on Justice, but I am sorry that I did not understand anything in half of his speech, but nothing! I don't know what he's told us about Islam, I don't know what he's told us if the police can't get into certain neighborhoods in Ceuta. I don't know, I read the law again and I say: But this is what it is! Why are you telling me that? But what does it have to do with sharing information to pursue serious financial breaches? Here, as I say, it is a question of Europe establishing a mechanism for cooperation between the authorities who are persecuting these crimes. We're gonna be honest, and we're gonna stop being silly. Who's going to vote against this? Those parliamentary groups which do not believe in Europe will vote against this. There you go! Let's finish with the excuses and the things that are said here. [[Rumors]] The truth is that the most striking thing, Mr Píriz, is what the People's Group is going to do. Mrs Vázquez, when we were in the Commission, seemed to be abstaining, but by her speech I do not know whether even the Group of the European People's Party is going to vote against the transposition of European directives seeking to promote cooperation in the investigation and prevention of infringements of serious economic offences. I don't know... As you commit so many crimes of an economic nature in your party, that's why, isn't it? [[Laughter and rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u26	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u27	This unattractive and unsexy thing is greatly enhanced by Mr Boadella and Mr PeCAT, who have managed to introduce the penalization of the multi-reciprocal theft - that theft for which Citizens had submitted a proposal a long time ago; certainly, a better proposal than that of Mr Boadella, because it established steps of proportionality in terms of the penalty far more reasonable in order to be able to overcome those obstacles that the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court established - because the Socialist Party has been successful in putting it into this law. Therefore, they will say: Caray, how good the Socialist Party, how good the Government of Spain, that at the gates of the summer we introduce this reform! No one said it, but this was a very funny thing. VOX on that day brought here to the plenary an initiative on multi-reciprocal theft and the Socialist Group in the morning in the Commission said: Well, I am going to annoy VOX and I am going to put the multi-reciprocal theft into this paper so that the gentlemen of VOX will run out of content. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, please present an anti-Okupation law as soon as possible so that we can get the Socialist Party, only in the spirit of harassing you, to establish an anti-Okupation law. I also say to you, Minister, that you copy ours, because we already have a good solution in the Congressional Register of Deputies with regard to those alleged occupations. As you can see, the worst of bipartisanship is found in this law. The Socialist Party uses the multi-recital theft only for harassing VOX, not thinking of the people who are stolen in the Barcelona metro, but for a purely opportunistic tactic; and the People's Party tells us - see what things, in this bar you play, as in Casablanca - that the collection of the waste tax is given to the autonomous communities. But haven't you noticed how angry Mrs. Calvo was because she took away her waste tax? Doesn't it make you suspect that the fact that Junts per Catalunya is angry with this regulation at best is because it is reasonable that there is a tax at the national level of a Spain of free and equal citizens and not a tax in Catalonia, a tax in the Basque Country and a tax in Galicia? Doesn't that seem reasonable, Mr. Píriz and Mr. Ruiz? In addition, it is a matter of giving up collection only. Mrs Calvo told us that 18 years ago they had this waste rate. Eighteen years ago, you have ruled for some time, as far as I know, and you have not taken it away either. So do not be hypocritical, you who do not want to remove from the Constitution that of nationalities and regions - the territories of first and second - and do not prevent the autonomous communities that have this competence for the treatment of waste from receiving the collection of the waste tax, because it seems logical. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u29	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Today we are discussing essentially the draft organic law establishing rules to facilitate the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences. This law implies, as has already been said, the transposition of European Directive 2019/1153 and is intended to make easier access to certain financial information by the designated authorities for the prevention of money laundering, terrorist offences and other serious offences. In the case of Spain, the Financial Intelligence Unit is the centralized national entity responsible for receiving reports on suspicious money-laundering operations provided by financial institutions, analysing them and transmitting information on such operations to both internal competent authorities and other financial intelligence units in other countries in order to combat and prevent such illicit activities. Thus, the Spanish authorities may exchange financial information or financial analyses obtained by the competent authorities designated by other Member States of the European Union. It also enables the immediate exchange of information with Europol and with the State security forces and police and autonomous police by deleting the prior judicial authorization by the Prosecutor's Office to access the Financial Ownership File. In our view, this could contradict the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation and even our Organic Data Protection Act. However, this is a law which, on the one hand, well-implemented, could take root in the financial infrastructure of global terrorism, which, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, as Europol reports annually, includes not only the violent radicalisation processes attributed to religious fanaticism, but also to racist supremacism linked to the extreme right. On the other hand, this law could stem the economic infrastructure of organized crime. Mexican academic Sayak Valencia uses the concept of gore capitalism to refer to an economic system that has turned violence, drug trafficking and even human trafficking into a profitable business. In this capitalism tax havens, for example, have a great implication through money laundering or known money laundering. In the case of Spain we already know that when we talk about money laundering all roads lead to Switzerland. [[Applauds]] With regard to the PeCAT amendment on the multirecidence of small thefts, we must say that we share the need for the law to protect the small and medium-sized trader from those who, sometimes even with intimidatory or violent methods, steal the box or the merchandise. That is why we support your amendment both in the vote in the House and in the Committee. But, in addition, we are particularly concerned about multi-million-dollar multi-recidivisms, those who, being in privileged positions of political power and economic power, erode the welfare state by taking advantage of common resources. We know of several cases of tax evasion; of awarding contracts to companies with inflated prices, for example, the purchase of masks for 6 million euros by the brother of the President of the Community of Madrid; of commissions, for example, for the famous works of the AVE to Mecca for the emeritus resident in Abu Dhabi, which at the time led him to the Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Court, and of so many other national episodes. On this plot of money and political power, yesterday we knew that the Civil Guard used the notes of Villarejo's notebook to conclude that the constructor OHL paid a bite to the former president of the Madrid Community of the People's Party, Ignacio González. Specifically, the builder would have given 1.5 million to Ignacio González to make the train from Móstoles to Navalcarnero, a work that did not finish. And, following Villarejo's notes - in this case, voice notes -, we also knew yesterday by the publications of El País that the former Minister of the Interior, Jorge Fernández Díaz, during the government of M. Rajoy, between 2012 and 2016 met at the headquarters of the Ministry of the Interior with Villarejo and with the then operational deputy director of the Police, the famous Eugenio Pino. Although Fernández asked on several occasions for the conversation not to come out of those walls, the former commissioner, as usual, recorded it, and from it it can be extracted that the three orchestrated the well-known Catalan Operation, which imputed a false cause to the independence leaders. Jorge Fernández Díaz, during his stage as Minister of Rajoy, had the opportunity to admit on several occasions that he knew former Commissioner Villarejo and that he had met with him, but the former Minister of the PP, like the Apostle Peter, denied the police up to three times in public and another - which is more serious - during the recent Kitchen Commission. I take this opportunity to announce that from the Confederal Group we will make a call to the Bureau of Congress to assess with the legal services of the House the possible sanctions to Jorge Fernández Díaz for failing to fulfil the mandate not to lie during the Kitchen Commission. I want to end by recalling the pride and haughtiness with which the former PP minister spoke to my colleague Rafa Mayoral and, by the way, also to Congressman Edmundo Bal, who will remember him well. I guess after yesterday's publications, he'll have dropped off the pedestal. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u30	Thank you, Mr. Cortés. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to this debate, perhaps the first question we should ask ourselves is: what are we talking about when we talk about financial crimes? Because here we have talked about virtually anything but the subject of debate that is being discussed today. That shows a lot the level of participation that has taken place in this bill's paper, and it also has a lot to do with some of the interventions that have been made here, which are based on ignorance because they have not even stepped on the Commission. That is serious, ladies and gentlemen, because this is an important law. It is a law that persecutes precisely those people who take our money in full hands, but what we have discussed many times in this House seems that some ladies and gentlemen - in particular, the ladies and gentlemen I have here on my right - do not care very much. [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] I think that's reason enough for everyone to think about it. [[Applauds]] Today we can take an important step towards having a new organic law in our country that fights, I insist, against those people who take the money of all the Spaniards. It seems a lie that we have experienced today a debate of absolute bipolarity with the extreme right, speaking the gentlemen of VOX as a framework of coexistence. But what framework of coexistence do you want, if all you want is to destroy coexistence in our country? [[Applauds]] If all you ladies and gentlemen of VOX want is to come to power to say who is normal and who is not, who is good and who is not good, who is the foreigner who can enter and who is the foreigner who cannot enter. Above all, they speak of chiringuitos when four chiringuitos have been assembled by the citizens of Castile and León at the Junta de Castile and León. [[Applauds]] See if you've set up a chiringuite in Castile and León that today the agenda of the vice president of the Junta de Castile and León, who has no competence, is to go to a national pony contest. Look at the level you have in Castile and Lion, ladies and gentlemen of VOX! And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have practically marked this crime law for changing the title and including some things. But you are complicit in crime, you are complicit in fraud, as Mr Píriz has said, because you agreed to include multirecidence here. Did they agree, yes or no, Mr. Píriz? Yes, it was included and the title had to be changed. Mr Píriz, do not come here to talk about certain issues when you have participated - I insist - rather little in this paper, in addition to presenting amendments which I believe had - as it were - little political level and which were a short and sticky part of the report of the Council of State. Therefore, Mr Píriz, I think you should work a little longer if you really have an interest in bringing forward such a law. Mr. Rego, I think the problem is that you haven't heard what this law is about. I don't think you have any idea what this law is about, I don't think you have any idea what it's about. Moreover, I believe that it is contrary to the objective of this law, which is precisely something that you in this House have denounced countless times: to pursue financial crime, to pursue the mafia. Mr Rego, I think you will also agree that those who finance terrorists must be prosecuted, and for that it is essential that the authorities have access to certain very specific issues that are detailed in the law, which have to do with names and accounts; nothing more, Mr Rego, nothing more. The law says it, it says who has to be, who doesn't have to be, and it says how far you can get on each of the issues. We often talk here about the usefulness of politics and I believe that this law responds to the usefulness of politics and to the work that politicians have to do in this House. Two issues that had to be addressed with extreme urgency have been resolved and which, as Mr Bal said, had been going on for some time and around which there was a public debate. The first has to do with crimes of multirecidence, and I believe that this law, as an organic law necessary to amend the Penal Code, gives a full answer. And the second question, Mr Píriz, is the advantageism of the People's Party always: I am opposed, but they have not convened the Territorial Council; they have done so very badly, but to what will they charge you, Mr Píriz? That you are going to applaud with two hands the collection of this tax? That, by the way, will bring greater economic capacity to the autonomous communities. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that what you must do is that the resources you have invest them in financing public services, something that no People's Party community is doing, most of which are returning the COVID funds that the Government has put in place to improve the health and public education of the autonomous communities. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we can make progress in the fight against crimes that hinder the lives of many Spaniards; we can make progress in the prevention of crimes against those who steal from us and today we can take care of the short boat that some political groups have raised in this House, but, ladies and gentlemen, what we are elected for is to be useful to society, and I believe that voting in favour of this law today is to fulfil our goal of being useful to society. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking from the seat to thank all the Members for the handling of this organic bill, and especially, if I may, the Subcommittee on the Interior, the chairman of it, José Luis Ábalos, and all the spokespersons, Members and Members of the Commission. As mentioned above, this draft organic law is a responsibility of our country as a member of the European Union in transposing Directive 2019/1153 of the Parliament and of the Council, within the framework of the European Security Agenda, and with the specific aim - as has been stated - of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting serious crimes, of combating organised crime. Fundamental rights and freedoms - as has also been recalled - and, in particular, the right to privacy, since it mainly refers to improving access to ownership of financial ownership files and to the exchange of information, are perfectly safeguarded in constitutional parameters. With this in mind, I would simply like to thank the Commission for its handling of this matter; it points out our responsibility, as a State of the European Union, to combat organised crime of a transnational and serious nature, our commitment to the exchange of information, and our scrupulous respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens, and I welcome the broad consensus reached in the opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 14/2011 OF 1 JUNE, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION. [[File number 121/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u35	We turn to the point concerning the opinion of the bill amending Act 14/2011 of 1 June 2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation. I would remind you that the amendments to the Commission's opinions will be voted on at the end of this debate. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u36	Thank you, President. I am speaking on behalf of the Basque Group to establish a position on the whole science law, as well as to defend the amendments we keep alive. Euskadi has competence in R+D+i, as set out in the Statute of Gernika, and of course has its own regulations through decrees, as well as its own science and technology plan until 2030. With these instruments, the Basque administrations have exercised their competences, of course, with a strong commitment, which has made the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country a leader in the state in investment in R & D+i with a higher percentage of innovative enterprises, has also been able to develop a successful science, technology and innovation ecosystem, with international recognition, and has been able to combine basic research, but also applied research to provide solutions to the productive fabric and society through the connection between companies, universities and R & D+i centres. All this is not achieved without a strong investor bet or without providing resources to the research staff. Thus, the Basque Government's commitment is to increase the R & D+i-related budget by 6% annually and also to provide research staff with resources. As such, they will understand that what we always defend and claim is that the legislative texts that are adopted in the State are the most generic possible to allow, precisely, that it does not constrain what has already been developed and is being done well within the framework of its competences in the autonomous communities and that it can deploy with all its potential its own capacity and the plans and strategies put in place that, at least in Euskadi, have given us such good results. [[The Lord]] For this reason, we believe that the finally adopted text should be a law that helps the deployment of R & D+i, but not a text that is to corset. So let me express one wish: I hope that this law will serve to strengthen the space of science, technology and innovation of the State without limiting and restricting the scope of autonomous action. I am now defending the amendments that we have left alive. As far as the amendments we are keeping alive are concerned, a very important bloc for us is one that is linked to self-government and to the defence of the competence of the competent autonomous communities. In particular, Amendments Nos 82, 83 and 84, which we keep alive, seek to avoid in the wording of the legal text expressions which may imply the imposition and pre-eminence of State policies in relation to those of other administrations, especially the autonomous communities which have competence, as I have said, in this matter. The proper functioning of the relationship between the competent administrations should be ensured by means of collaborative instruments, not through legal imposition or through the application of State schemes that may be more concerned with establishing hierarchies between different institutional levels than with increasing policy effectiveness and efficiency through collaboration. What we seek is that the relationship between competent administrations is, in fact, in a context of collaboration and, since this has not been reflected in the law of science, we will certainly abstain from the whole of this law. Amendments 89, 91, 95 and 96. With amendment 89 on the evaluation of the access contract of the research staff, we believe that it should be stated that the Autonomous Communities will determine the modality and the evaluating body within the framework of their competences. The regulation of the access contract, of course, must be compatible with its itinerary, with the incorporation into a stable position in universities and research centres, considering, moreover, that some autonomous communities have passed laws of their university system that regulate specific contractual modalities and typologies. Amendment 91 concerns the contract for scientific and technical activities, as regulated in Article 23. This new form of contract replaces the contract for work or service that is extinguished with the new labour reform. For this reason, and because of the change it entails, it is important to regulate it with great clarity in order to avoid any interpretative dysfunction. The amendment incorporates the explicit reference to the possibility of contracting also by projects, approaching with them the practice followed in the scientific world of international reference, so that, without prejudice to the greater scope and effectiveness of contracting by lines of research or scientific-technical services, it can also be maintained in cases where contracting, as I say, by projects is so appropriate. We also consider it appropriate to clarify that it can be hired under this modality for the implementation of public plans and programmes for scientific and technical research or innovation. There is a need to advance the defence of the recruitment of research and technical personnel in R+D+i. Amendment 95. This amendment proposes to introduce a new second subparagraph to the sixth additional provision of the draft law to regulate a special procedure of a timely nature for the adoption by Parliament of the decision to alter the appropriation which, on a multiannual basis, is established in the budgetary framework for this purpose by the same standard for the approval of the general budgets of the previous financial year or years, requiring its amendment to a procedure for this purpose which necessarily specifies its explicit and concrete approach, motivated by the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of the Budgets Act. Finally, with regard to Amendment 96, it is proposed to add a new seventh additional provision relating to the promotion and encouragement of research and innovation in the private sector through a catalogue of aid and tax and tax subsidies and improvements aimed at promoting the research and innovation activity of private entities and companies, in accordance with Council Recommendation 2021/2122 of 26 November 2021 on a Research and Innovation Pact in Europe, which states that all Member States should provide the conditions and support necessary for greater private investment in R & D+i at the level of the State and regional Union, bearing in mind, moreover, that public expenditure on R & D+i and private investment require an appropriate policy and regulatory framework to maximise their effectiveness and efficiency and to ensure an economic and social impact. Finally, I would like to refer to aspects that we have incorporated into the parliamentary procedure. We have sought to resolve with our amendments the side effects in the field of science that have led to the disappearance of the contract of employment or service eliminated by labour reform. This bill includes a new form of contract for technical scientific activities which replaces the above-mentioned contract by work or service. Through the compromise amendment we have signed, technological centres and technology support centres and private universities run by non-profit entities, which are very important actors in the development of R & D+i policies, will of course be allowed to use these types of contracts. The reference to technical staff is also explicitly included, as collaboration in all areas is increasingly required. We have also succeeded in including a measure aimed at contributing to the recruitment, return and retention of technological staff in excellence, in particular the possibility of extending the contract provided for in article 23 to distinguished and distinguished technologists. On the other hand, we will do so by supporting, as we do, open science and considering that, in addition to the ministries mentioned in the draft law, the autonomous communities, within the framework of their competences, can also promote initiatives aimed at facilitating free access to the data generated by the research, an issue that has been included in the text of the draft law through a compromise with our amendment 93, which will be put to the vote below. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u37	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Minister. In Citizens we have some satisfaction with the opinion of the Science, Innovation and Technology Bill because it comes with our contributions and our support, but it is also true that we would have liked, and we have said so, that the reform would be more ambitious and could have gone a little further. In any case, we do believe that it is fair to recognize the work of all parliamentary groups and, moreover, to express our appreciation for the readiness of the ministry, in its day of Pedro Duque and, subsequently, of Diana Morant, in these matters. In Citizens we have always wanted to contribute to science policy. We did so in its day with the CDTI's Cervera network, obtaining funding and advice for small and medium-sized enterprises, thus increasing their economic and innovative potential. Moreover, that this initiative has continued with governments of both the PP and the PSOE and the United We can reinforce us in the idea that it was a good initiative for Spanish society. With that same will we have contributed our granite sand in the reform of the current law of science and, above all, with the aim of ending the two major problems that this sector had: the insecurity and instability of researchers in their professional and occupational fields and, also, the excessive bureaucratic burden on their work. That is why we appreciate that this bill contains issues that we have introduced through our initiatives that have been negotiated and incorporated into the text. We have managed to give more flexibility so that researchers can carry out their functions in companies and foundations, further recognizing more fully their intellectual property rights on the progress made through their work; we have also achieved more effective regulation of open science and of the best and greatest possible dissemination of scientific research; we have achieved the recognition of technical and managerial staff as essential staff in research teams, as well as the possibility that no specific qualification is required for that work, but rather experience, training and skills for those functions, and we have also given more flexibility for researchers to carry out their functions in companies and foundations, with a more complete recognition, as I have said before, of their intellectual property rights. However, it is true that we wanted something more from this reform and, unfortunately, there are three issues that were vetoed by the Government: to ask for a box in the IRPF statement to have 0.7% of the amount collected for R & D, tax subsidies to companies in inheritance tax if they invest in R & D or social subsidies if the recruitment of research staff was carried out by companies. Nor did we want to remain alone in what we have said - and it was also mentioned at this very plenary session this week - that we had a Spanish Space Agency without having an innovative sector present in our business already with a framework regulation of its activities, authorizations and civil liability, as other countries in our environment have. Unfortunately, the Government or the majority groups of the House have not been about to give impetus, precisely, to the realization of this legal framework. But I am already talking about the two amendments that we in Citizens are keeping alive at the moment, and for which we are calling for their vote in favour. The first is Amendment 35, which calls on the Government to draw up a plan to attract and retain research talent so that our researchers do not have to leave Spain to follow their studies to work and that, if they want to return, they may have incentives to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, it certainly sounds like this to you because last week, on 14 June, the minister herself announced to us the adoption of a plan for attracting and retaining innovative scientific talent, with about 30 measures and almost EUR 3 billion in funding. I have to tell you that we like this plan because, as the agreement says, it will provide incentives to attract research staff to the public science sector and will also promote the incorporation of international scientific and innovative staff into the private sector. The question, above all to the groups supporting the Government, is: Why are you going to vote, if any, against this amendment 35 of Citizens, which precisely asks the Government to draw up a plan for attracting and retaining research talent, as we requested in the General Budgets of the State, and we also ask it through the amendments to this law, even before the announcements made by the Minister? In fact, if you realize, we are asking for the same thing that this plan establishes and that can be read on the ministry's website: progressive tax bonuses to companies that hire researchers indefinitely, and we want it to be at least five years; bonuses in contributions to Social Security for recruitment of research staff who would have left Spain to continue their research or to obtain their PhD, as we propose; lines of assistance for recruitment of research staff who would have left Spain to continue that research and obtain their PhD with the aim of facilitating their recruitment for innovative SMEs, startups and scaleups, provided that the recruitment lasts at least three years. It is a question of really determining what measures that plan needs to take. Why would you vote against this amendment - as I say - if it coincides substantially with the plan approved by the ministry? We regret to hear that it is simply a question of voting instead of that same proposal because it was proposed by Citizens before the ministry itself. In any case, we also keep alive our Amendment No 30 so that the law shields the total investment commitment of all sectors, public and private, together, to 3% of GDP in R & D, compared to the 1.25 % envisaged by the government only in the public sector. We thus call for this by recalling that it was even a commitment of the Socialist Party's electoral programme in 2016, to which it could renounce, in principle, only give as a response that the Government really refuses to make effective policies to promote and encourage research and innovation in the private sphere. Because, if not, it is as simple as voting in favour of the same proposal that we are bringing today in Amendment No 30, which you carried on your 2016 electoral programme as I say, and it is up to 2030 that the total funding, both public and private, together reaches 3% of GDP. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as I say, it is a moderate satisfaction that we have come this far, for the amendments that have been negotiated and we have managed to introduce into the draft law, but it is also a bitter feeling because there are government vetoes that have been imposed on us and there are negative ones that give rise to these two amendments that we maintain today that they are, moreover, very socialist. We therefore do not understand why you would vote against it. In any case, we hope they will be consistent and supportive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u39	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. In the BNG we start from the fact that without science there is no future and, therefore, also from the conviction that this law should be an opportunity to advance in promoting a science for the whole of society, but also in a science with rights. That was why the BNG introduced thirty amendments to improve this law in defence of, for example, the Galician competences, to guarantee social return and the public interest, and to guarantee rights and to put an end to the precariousness of research and research groups. For example, Amendment 61, on biomedical research, in line with the 150 approved, which the PSOE tried to bring down until yesterday; Amendment 62 on the professional career of IPOs; the elimination of the workforce replacement rate; equalizing the salary of pre-doctoral researchers; including technical and managerial staff; retroactiveizing compensation also for pre-doctoral contracts; increasing public funding up to 2% to reach that established 3%, or those related to reducing the gender gap in line with the Ángeles Alvariño Act, which the BNG promoted in the Galician Parliament and which is in force in our country. We also wanted to be the voice of the scientific groups and, therefore, we appreciate the suggestions that made us collectives like InvestiGar, very active in Galicia, by the way. In a global assessment, however, it seems to us that, despite progress, this was a missed opportunity for further progress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u41	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u42	The BNG is therefore, unfortunately, going to abstain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u43	Thank you. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I say no secret if I say that Spain is a country that has traditionally treated its science and scientists very badly. It will not be easy to find many examples of countries in which a phrase such as the famous Unamuno of 'Invent them' has become famous. The problem of inventing them, of inventing them, is that they condemn us to be hostages to a colonial model and to a very fragile economic model, low cost, which basically rests, on the one hand, on speculation, the destruction of territory and brick and, on the other, on precariousness and on the physical and mental health of workers. This structural model does not change alone. Since there is no invisible hand on the market, in reality, if there is no determined and strategic public intervention for the science and the industrialization of our country, what happens is that countries continue to specialize in what they already do: some specialize in making vaccines with well-paid and skilled work and others specialize in bloodletting with poorly paid work. To be a homeland and not a tourist resort it is essential that there be a scientific and industrial policy to the same extent. It is essential that Spain remanufacturing things and for this it is necessary, first, public investment, ambitious, avant-garde, sustained and with return - the return is very important, because it is not only a question of the state being a kind of cashier that lends, when the state invests in a project that is profitable the state has to receive benefits, because thus it can continue to encourage an industrial model, an own and advanced scientific model - and, secondly, to take care of the main raw material of any industrial scientific model, and that raw material is nothing other than its own talent, the Spanish researchers and scientists. In Spain until now, it has been almost a vocational issue; people chose a model that condemned them to a career in which one was a teenager until the past forty years, in which it was very difficult to form a family because they did not know where they were going to be next year or whether they were going to have to leave the country or in which it was very difficult for them to grant, for example, a mortgage, because in fifteen years of research they had had seventeen contracts and so there was no way of having some stability. It is therefore time to organize the capacities of our country, to dignify and care for the talent of our country and to put all the necessary resources. Does that require money? Yes, but being a resort is much more expensive. This law is moving in the right direction and will therefore have the support of More Country and Green EQUO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u46	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief, because I have only one minute. We believe that this law is a remedy, not as we initially aim, in some ways on some important issues. Firstly, to highlight research and science, a key issue since it left the ministry and we believe that it has been increased in its parliamentary process; secondly, to facilitate the injection of public and private resources into research; and, thirdly, to highlight and repair issues that were pending from those who conduct research and who carry out their professional work in research centres. We believe that the law meets the requirements that we previously asked for, and that is why we are voting in favour of it. We also welcome the withdrawal of the Socialist Group's particular vote on our amendment 350, which makes it easier for hospital researchers to work in better conditions. As I said, we will vote in favour of the text. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u47	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u48	Good morning. Good morning, Minister. This bill is a matter on which Junts has worked a lot, and I guess like all parties, it's normal. We have tabled forty amendments with the sector and with the Council covering competition aspects which, logically, are essential to us and animal research, because it is possible for another type of research to take advantage of an opportunity to move forward in alternative methods of live experimentation, as the European Union envisages, and also in funding research, because it is not about research, but about investing in it actually. And I cannot fail to say that we do not share the government's veto on three amendments, especially on VAT compensation for research projects. It's essential and it's basic, if you really believe in research, and I think the pandemic has made it clear that research is basic to our lives. These are in general - competition, financing and alternative experimentation - the amendments that we keep alive and for which we call for support, because we believe they will improve the bill. We have withdrawn some amendments because the opinion, more or less, collects them or because some of them have been negotiated, although it is true that less than we would have liked. And I can't help but mention the legislative technique. I said it on the Commission. Frankly, I think it can be much better legislated. A law is not a tailor's calaix, as we say in Catalan, which took advantage of to put in other things I have earrings. For example, the new eighth provision, tax benefits applicable to the South Summit from 22 to 24, will be very important, but in this law? On final provision 1 bis, consolidated text of the guarantee law, same commentary. As regards the final provision first ter, amending access to the professions of lawyer and prosecutor, the timetable is changed. Is this necessary? And also, take into account that in the latter case the second final provision does not include the legal basis for doing so. So, is the science law that's left a good reform? We think it's not bad, honestly, but it's better. And with science and investment in research, the same happens to them as with dialogue and negotiation: not by repeating it, not by repeating it, it must be done. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u49	Thank you so much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u50	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Good morning, minister. We discussed in plenary the amendment of the Law on Science, Technology and Innovation, and we want to recognize, first of all, the good work that has been done in all the processes of appearances in the subcommittee created for this task, as well as the report resulting from all of them. I believe that the final report gave us all a good basis to work on this law and achieve a good result. What has been the contribution of Republican Left in the final text of this law? I'll sum it up briefly. We have made progress in publishing results and transparency in publicly funded research and development projects with the aim of improving the transfer of knowledge, the so-called open science; we have also made improvements in the gender perspective in the professional career of researchers; we have found clear competitive delimitation mechanisms and non-invasive mechanisms of collaboration between administrations respecting the competences of the Generalitat de Catalunya in this field, although, unfortunately, we see too often competitive invasions in the laws approved by this government. In the field of improvements in the working conditions of people working in the sector, we ensure the continuity and viability of scientific and development projects and, therefore, of the staff assigned to them. We have also contributed to the flexibility of the requirements to be able to access the new contract of scientific-technical activity by ensuring access to those who have the training, experience and competences in accordance with the tasks to be performed and, finally, to facilitate internal promotion processes between technical and scientific scales to promote the development of the professional career. In short, and in order not to go into very technical details that may confuse, we have helped ensure the transfer of knowledge, turn the scientific and technical career into a stable and future value, introduce measures to reduce gender inequalities, simplify bureaucracy. In short, make science and technology a stable sector that allows development, modernization and avoid the so-called brain drain. We also want to highlight an agreement that is important to us, which is the promotion of scientific parks and technological platforms to promote the transfer of knowledge and dissemination. A very important aspect related to this point is that, thanks to an amendment by our parliamentary group, we have succeeded in eliminating the system of double funding that stretched the accounts of scientific and technological parks throughout the Spanish State, with particular impact in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] In this regard, the law incorporates the elimination of the obligation to obtain private bank guarantees for the financing of these centres, which compromised the continuity and viability of many scientific projects and, consequently, of contracts and personnel intended for them by the financial burden they entailed. You all know that the scientific power and economic viability of scientific parks is enormous, enormous, but their financial situation is very delicate because of the way in which the great construction and equipment of these infrastructures was financed in their day, largely with debt coming from the State and with terms of return not in accordance with their cash flows. I set an example for you to understand the magnitude of the problem. One of the major Catalan scientific parks paid 1.5% of the guarantee price for a fee of EUR 36.7 million, which meant that more than EUR 700 000 per year was a financial overburden, which was very difficult to bear. With the elimination of this double endorsement, we give confidence to these scientific structures, most of which are linked to universities, which provide us with research, innovation and quality employment. We believe that with all that our parliamentary group has negotiated to achieve this law we are giving way to most of the demands of the scientific and research sector in Catalonia, and we are giving the research and innovation sector of the country a lot of work still to be done. You know, Minister, that we still have to reach agreements on an important issue, such as the return of VAT to research centres, as some firm rulings already recognise, and as a mandate this Congress with the approval of a GNP from our parliamentary group that went in this direction. You are committed to finding a solution to this issue and I am convinced that we will reach an agreement as satisfactory as it has been to abolish the bank guarantee for scientific parks. And I'm finishing up. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups for their work in the presentation of this law. I think we have been able to put aside our differences, which are many and very deep, to focus on finding solutions and consensus to improve the science and innovation sector. In this regard, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Socialist Group, Mrs Sandra Guaita, for her work and for her willingness to reach agreements. I would also like to acknowledge the will of the Minister, Diana Morant, to reach agreements. From the very beginning of your inauguration, I think we have had a fluid dialogue, we have spoken clearly about what we wanted as a parliamentary group and what you wanted as a minister and, finally, we have reached agreements, for which we are going to support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u51	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Today we are going to approve the 2011 law of science amendment and I wanted my first words to be for the research community. If science is a state policy today, if we guarantee stable funding for science today and if we are going to shield new rights for our research staff, it is fundamentally thanks to your struggle and your persistence these years. [[Applauds]] And thanks to that push, as I say, we are faced with a law that pushes a country forward, a law that is going to bring about a change of direction for science in our country, which strengthens public leadership in R+D+i policies, and which, in addition, will allow us to leave behind the lost decade in which the People's Party cut 25% of science budgets, expelling thousands and thousands of researchers from the country. In this sense, the new science law responds to three unanimous demands from the research community. First, it improves the scientific career and dignifies the working conditions of researchers. Secondly, it will ensure public and stable financing in R & D+i. Finally, it reduces the administrative burden faced by people who do science, who do research, in Spain. From the United Nations We have always said that this new scientific policy had to put research staff at the centre. Ramón and Cajal said that discoveries are made by people and not by scientific devices or copious libraries, and for that we have to look after those who investigate and listen to their demands. We did not need to introduce a tenuous track to further precarise the research career in the early years, nor did we need to eliminate the figure of the titular scientist, as proposed in the early drafts of this science law. We needed a research career, stable, predictable and that would expand rights, and fortunately, those first drafts were corrected. Today we can say at last that this law lays the groundwork for starting and maintaining a research career, safe and away from precariousness. The science law, in fact, will establish a new, clearer postdoctoral scientific itinerary, oriented towards stabilization and which dignifies the working conditions of our research staff. One of the main milestones of this law - and which is also aligned with the new labour reform - is that of ending contracts for work and service, which caused so much instability among the people who do science by developing an indefinite recruitment model, proposed by the new article 23a of contracts for scientific-technical activities. This new law of science also deploys new rights for researchers. The coalition government's programme included, at its 28th point, the equalization of all investigative personnel, including those who began their research careers, pre-doctoral staff and from the United Nations. We have worked to ensure that what was agreed was achieved. What FPU Research's colleagues asked us was as common-sense as anyone who has an investigation contract should have the same rights as the rest of the workers. Because what was happening in this country was that researchers, in the early stages of their work, had fewer rights than any other worker, outside the private or public administration sphere. That is why it is so important for us that this new law of science will finally collect contract compensation for pre- and post-doctoral investigators. [[Applauds]] The consolidation of the rights of predoctoral researchers in our country is to be very satisfied. This new science law also seeks to correct the cuts in science and the typical pro-cyclical behaviour of general budgets and, therefore, aims to achieve public funding of 1.25% of GDP by the end of this decade. The European Commission estimates that for each euro invested in research projects, five are generated for the economy. Therefore, it is not a question of us being a rich country to then invest in science, but of investing in science now to generate innovation and added value. This must be a country's priority objective, and we cannot be confused. These years we will need more budget for science and not to increase military spending. [[Applauds]] The law we pass today is also making progress in reducing the administrative burden, which is something that the research groups frequently demanded of us, and it does so by simplifying both the procedure for granting aid and its justification. It also promotes the transfer of knowledge with the new genders of transfer that encourages the transfer of public research to companies and society. Finally, it is a law committed to equality. This commitment is to be articulated through equality plans, which can be evaluated annually, a protocol against harassment and a badge of gender equality in R & D+i for centres that demonstrate that they achieve excellence in this area. In short, it is a new law of science that gives researchers professional dignity, guarantees stable public investment so as not to repeat the cuts of the People's Party and that substantially modernises our system of science, technology and innovation. In Unity We are convinced that this bill represents an important step forward and yet we are also aware that there are issues that have been left out. For example, the professional career of technical and management staff, as well as an essential part of our research staff. These are issues that we are not going to abandon and on which we are going to continue to insist, but this morning I would like to underline the agreement that we have reached with the Socialist Parliamentary Group to move forward with our amendment 59. This is an amendment amending the fifth additional provision of labour reform, in order to ensure that indefinite recruitment also reaches researchers working on research projects with competitive European funds. It was a question of justice and, above all, it will mean a drastic reduction in temporality. Finally, we can say that labour reform will reach all researchers. [[Applauds]] I'll finish it, President. In Unity We have always defended that science had to be a priority of the country because for too long it has not been. We were still installed in what they invented, of which Miguel de Unamuno warned us. We had an underfunded system, precarious research staff, and we weren't able to retain the research talent. However, this reform of the law of science represents a new opportunity. Today we lay the foundations for a change of course and for scientific policy to become a vector of development and collective well-being. In short, we are facing a unique opportunity to leave behind what they invented and move on to inventing together, inventing with Europe. That is why we shall vote yes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u53	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been saying this for years, generating quality scientific knowledge, being able to transfer it to society, encouraging innovative spirit, taking advantage of all technological potential, is one of the safest recipes to drive economic growth on solid foundations and make a more prosperous society. The scientific and technological advances have been the preamble to great periods of growth, it has always been so; so now, in a period subject to great changes, in which the spectacular technological advances are proving to have an extraordinary capacity to increase the productivity of our economy, it was more important than never to fail to science. I am very optimistic about the relevant role that science could play in the future of Spain, I am also very optimistic about the ability of our scientists to become an essential factor in our productive model, but that project would require vision, knowledge and ambition; a vision and ambition that we have been able to see how in a country in permanent conflict, such as Israel, it has made it a scientific power; a vision and ambition that has made South Korea, a country that until recently was poorer than Ghana, the world's most innovative country; a vision and ambition that have transformed a backward country, such as Ireland, into a global technological benchmark. In VOX, of course, we support the pact for science, whose success is a necessary but not sufficient condition to give a definitive boost to science in Spain. Indeed, the scenario in which we find ourselves is one in which we are experiencing the biggest collapse of gross domestic product since the Spanish civil war, in which we are suffering an irresponsible economic policy that is lagging behind us in the recovery of gross domestic product, in which we have to endure the spiralling increase in public debt, which is going to be like a slab on the back and shoulders of our young people, and we are seeing a rise in interest rates that threatens to leave our public accounts in a very delicate situation. Well, in that scenario, improving the stagnant productivity of our economy is not that it's an option, it's that it's our only way out. And if there is an investment capable of improving our growth potential, that investment certainly has to be in science, innovation, development and technology. Unfortunately, the failure of scientific policy in recent decades has not contributed precisely to improving our competitiveness; on the contrary, it has forced our researchers to work in precarious conditions and, in many cases, to undertake an exodus abroad from which we have never recovered, not even with cosmetic return operations lacking a path for lack of ambition. Therefore, if there is a time when in Spain we should more urgently support innovation and science to improve our growth potential, that time is certainly now. [[Applauds]] And if there is an urgent debt to be paid, it is one that we have with scientists condemned to precariousness, bureaucracy and lack of funds. Science must be supported with determination, with economic means, with job stability, with an effective framework for collaboration with companies. Therefore, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we support without cracks that the budget for science is increased to 1.25 % of GDP in 2030, as the law says, or that the situation of precarious work of the research staff is corrected, or that progress is made in the transfer of knowledge and results in the research activity. But, ladies and gentlemen, this law not only does not guarantee a greater and better impulse of science in Spain, but in many cases makes it difficult. In VOX we know a little better than most of you the world of science, research and development and innovation. That is why we have tabled over 100 pages of amendments, that is why we have proposed improvements and we have denounced many aspects of this text which are tremendously damaging to science, and today I am doing it again from this rostrum. Our commitment to science today leads us not to sign a blank cheque, not to accept as valid a commitment that is wet paper if not accompanied by other measures and not to silence in the face of the attack of trying to subject science to its ideological dogmas. [[Applauds]] This law does not address and therefore does not resolve the structural deficiencies affecting Spanish science. It is only necessary to listen to the more than thirty scientific experts who have appeared in this House during the processing of this text. But the problem does not lie there; this law is framed in an educational, budgetary, ideological policy which, if we fail to stop - and believe me we will - could condemn Spanish science for decades, because the policies of identification, capture and retention of the research talent begin in the classrooms. We need more young researchers, younger ones who want to devote their efforts to science. Scientific policy suffers in its bases when educational policy deteriorates, as is the case with this Government, when students can graduate without passing courses, when the rule of three or the minimum common denominator is replaced by socio-emotional skills, or when even mathematics is used to indoctrinate and the aim is to introduce a gender perspective into science. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me, don't fight math, math always wins. But the most serious thing about this law, which is why VOX cannot support it, is that it intends to kidnap science to put it at the service of Pedro Sánchez's ideological project. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill imposes sex discrimination in the scientific sphere by relegating the criteria of excellence, merit and ability to be replaced by criteria of what you call gender. [[Applauds]] It is scientific, scientific, to charge scientists with gender impact reports for approval of their projects. It is a question of establishing quotas as an element other than scientific excellence. And what's at stake is introducing gender commissioners into research teams. Ladies and gentlemen, the ideology and sectarianism that even this government makes of science will generate the consequence of not being able to count on the best in the scientific field, a consequence that we will all pay for for a long time. You leave us with an erial, a Spain that is lagging behind and in debt, and an endless number of laws that have put whole institutions, agencies and systems at the service of your dogmas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u55	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u56	When we govern, we will strive to attract, retain and provide resources and promote the best, the most outstanding scientists, be they men or women. And we've been giving everyone a voice since VOX today, because Spanish science is much better than its politicians. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u57	Thank you. For the People's Group in Congress, Mr Navarro López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Our research staff have been playing their lives for two years to save ours and today is the time to give them back some of that effort with ours. This year the People's Group has devoted itself to this. No one would understand that we don't understand each other today. For what? To ensure investment in R & D and to ensure a decent and stable career for all research staff. [[Applauds]] In January 2021 this group proposed - you have forgotten to say it - that a subcommission will be set up to listen to all of you. Thanks to the fact that you supported the proposal of the People's Group, more than thirty organizations in the sector... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u59	One moment, please, Your Honor. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u60	He said that more than thirty organizations in the sector asked us one thing above all: agree. From the very beginning, the People's Group, as it did in 2011 in support of the current science law, extended its hand to the Government. From the first moment we show our willingness to agree a text that progresses in rights for research staff for everything and that will remove the investment in science from electoral changes. It is fair to admit that Minister Morant picked up that glove and opened the door by renouncing the wrong text of her predecessor. It is fair to acknowledge that it endorsed some of the demands of the Group of the European People's Party, accepting eighteen amendments of sixty-seven, thirteen of them negotiated. But I think it is also fair to say, Minister, that you have not dared to cross that door at all. Unfortunately, they did not wait for the subcommission to end and we had to see how they approved a closed text in the Council of Ministers while, for example, Dr. Barbacid, the world's top reference in cancer research, appeared in this Congress of Deputies. As the People's Group and the CRUE warned, in January they were forced to advance part of the law because labour reform could leave 25 000 researchers on the streets. [[Applauds]] Last week they approved in the Council of Ministers the plan of return of talent, obviating what we were doing in the presentation. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs, especially Mr Cendón and Mr Guaita, for the hand they have always had with the People's Party. All this has been in spite of the Government. The People's Group has kept its word with the OSCE, with COTEC, with the Forum of Innovative Enterprises, with the Spanish Association of Technical Management Staff and, of course, with the National Association of Hospital Researchers. Today, in the background, we passed two laws, yours and ours. Yours, that of the Socialist Party, full of headlines and lacking in content, and that of the other groups, and, of course, that of the Group of the European People's Party. We have bet on the technicians and management staff; we have obviously bet on the hospital researchers; we have obviously bet on an investment that is much more than a photo pact. All this has been done thanks to the eighty-nine Members of the Group of the European People's Party and, in particular, to Mrs Castillo, Mr Cortés, Mr Pedreño, Mrs Santolaya and, in particular, to Maria Jesús Moro and my colleagues Marta and Sandra. [[Applauds]] I'm saying this because I just heard that some people know more about research than we do. Among the names I've just told you are three doctors, one professor, two deans of professional colleges and one former head of the legal services of the University of Salamanca. You will know more than some, but I assure you that more than my colleagues, no. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Morant, your law denied the possibility of a decent and stable career for hospital staff. Thank you, Juan Angel and Francisco; thank you, Antonio. To the National Association of Hospital Researchers, who accompany us today from the rostrum, thank you for your commitment, which has been ours. We tabled an amendment, we committed ourselves to you, we defended that amendment and we were the only group that supported those of all the groups. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the eighty-nine Members of the People's Group, today there is a professional career for hospital researchers. We have complied because no one would have understood a law without you. [[The lady]] Secondly, its law denied the professional career of technical and managerial staff for what the People's Group tabled an amendment. I have no pain in saying, Mr Errejón, that we are going to support yours - 109 and 110 - so that no one has doubts. We have listened to the person responsible for Podemos and he still finds it difficult to understand that the People's Group does support the rights of hospital researchers, that the People's Group does support the rights of all research staff; moreover, Mr Sánchez Serna, thanks to us they will be covered by the law because the People's Group managed yesterday, with its pressure, to withdraw the particular votes. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, your law does not guarantee investment in science, Mrs Morant. An investment of 1.25% of GDP according to budget availability, knowing Pedro Sánchez, we already know what this means: another photo without content. The Group of the European People's Party, with an amendment supported, among other things, by its partners in Podemos - whom we thank - has removed the matter of budgetary availability. His pact does not guarantee investment in science. The law, thanks to the amendment of the People's Party, does guarantee investment in science from now on. [[Applauds]] Today we can proudly say that your law is better thanks to our contribution. Today the eighty-nine Members of the Group of the European People's Party can be proud because, from now on, you have run out of excuses. They've been running for a long time blaming us for absolutely everything, now they've run out of excuses. Twenty-one years ago a Government of the People's Party created the first Ministry of Science. Ten years ago we supported the science law and today we are going to do it again. Of course, it's not the best law. You have forgotten the CREU amendments which gave legal certainty to the sector and which, of course, we keep alive. They have refused to accept the proposals that recognized that you have invented the new concept of indefinite precariousness. Yesterday the university had to make 25 000 teachers indefinite for three hours a week. That's your new job security. They have forgotten about private public collaboration. Despite this, of course, we will support a law that protects hospital researchers, protects technical staff and guarantees investment by law. After two very hard years for our researchers, no one would have understood that we would not have been able to agree with guaranteed funding, so today I can proudly say that, once again, we have responded as we are, as an alternative, by making a better law for a better country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u62	Good morning. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as in Teruel There are many times we talk about territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation, we are often asked what actions or policies are decisive in these objectives. Well, scientific policy is one of the main tools for achieving territorial cohesion and for combating depopulation, although it may not seem so. Science, built from the freedom of thought and the independence of professionals, with scientific criteria and methodology, is one of the bases for territorial vertebration in Spain, which we must also use as a tool to correct the urban rural divide that now divides, like an abyss, the socio-territorial realities of the country. A look at the reality of these days, with extreme situations in meteorology or with the spread of fires that appear in maintenanceless forests, whose control requires resources and enormous effort, must lead us to science and not just to make science policy or to pass a law for science, but must lead us to build policies that, without denying perspectives and ideologies, are based on science, to consensual laws based on scientific knowledge. Part of the scientific community has told us - and it is true - that we need science here in Parliament, that we need public policies based on scientific evidence. This law, which, among other things, must give security to scientific personnel, must be a step in that direction. Science is behind global decisions on climate change, vaccines or renewable energies, which are applications of the scientific-technical revolution. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u64	These days we have experienced an exceptional heat wave, followed by a DANA with tornadoes that have sunk, for example, Alcañiz. The fires have burned important areas and spaces in Zamora, Teruel, Zaragoza, Malaga, Navarra, Lérida or Valencia. We have a very serious problem that extends through the empty forests and fields of Spain. We also need science there to prevent and mitigate these areas. We want to show here our solidarity with all the people of Spain who have suffered fires or floods these days. We really want to thank everyone who works to fight them. We want to remember that the most important thing is adaptation and prevention. To this end, the support of sectors such as extensive livestock farming, forestry and beekeeping is essential. Specific attention is needed in the care of the natural environment and the forest throughout the year. And we want to denounce a very serious coincidence in these weeks of fire and suffocating heat: in a dry year and in a dry month, with restrictions on irrigation, in many watersheds swamp water is disassembled with non-reversible jumps to produce electricity in hydroelectric power plants and sell it at gas prices. We are tolerating a real waste that can lead us to very serious situations. Are flows committed for human consumption and agricultural uses that have legal priority over hydro concessions? Probably. That is why we say that it is essential to put science in public management, to make policy and to manage administration from science. This is particularly important, he said, for the fight against depopulation and for territorial cohesion. Moreover, without science, without the commitment of the scientific teams and without talent poured into the unpopulated areas and in the rural environment, without a proactive scientific policy we will not make progress on these objectives. In this sense, and throughout the legislature, we have transferred to the Commission of Science many proposals that transcend the very law of science that we are debating, with the aim of bringing the gaze and transforming power of science to the problem of depopulation and imbalances. Thus, proposals have emerged to strengthen research centres in Teruel and Aragon; requests to address new topics that need scientific response such as, for example, the case of purines environmental impact and biogas exploitation; and also on plant health issues in agriculture, on innovation projects in agri-food or the national research centre in dinosaur paleontology. Firstly, science centres, in terms of centres of knowledge generation, are by themselves tools of territorial cohesion and of reducing socio-economic inequalities in areas at risk of depopulation; and secondly, if we bring together a set of strategic science and technology projects aligned with the aim of reversing depopulation, we are confident that in a short time, by promoting excellence in the scientific system and some specific lines of research, they could have a high impact on society and the territory through innovation and concrete tractor projects. Science would turn it around to the current situation in Spain. This vision and knowledge of the reality of the aerospace sector in Teruel, together with the existence of the Center for Physical Studies of the Cosmos, of Aragon, and the unique scientific-technical installation of the Astrophysical Observatory of Javalambre, prompted us to propose Teruel as the seat of the Spanish Space Agency from the moment when Minister Pedro Duque announced it informally in a meeting with deputies, even before the announcement of Ivan Redondo, until the motion we discussed yesterday in plenary. Putting the eyes and tools of science at the service of territorial cohesion is a challenge and a responsibility that concerns us as Members and that we must now address when the Science Committee has completed its work on this law. In this sense, in the Commission of Science, paleontologist Luis Alcalá, director of the Granada Science Park, called for the use of science as an instrument for territorial cohesion, also underlining the need for greater transfer of knowledge to society and for better dissemination. As, for example, has happened in the case of Dinópolis, a model of outreach and leisure built from an endogenous resource such as fossils, which has become a development project. That is why we advocate, for example, following the model of Atapuerca and the National Research Centre on Human Evolution, Burgos, the setting up of a national research centre on paleontology and dinosaurs in Teruel, a centre that would be a step further in the evolution of what has already been achieved. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u65	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Guitarte. Wait a minute, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u66	The reform of the law does not encompass the whole of scientific policy nor of course the role of science in politics, but it does contain progress in the working conditions of researchers, in the dignity of the scientific career and in the stabilization of investment. We have tabled amendments to extend the objectives that the law itself sets for its contribution to territorial cohesion, and we did so also in the opinion of the Sub-Commission on Science, so that territorial cohesion is one of the criteria that are present in competitive competitions. On the other hand, I would like to point out that we need - as is finally going to be - to amend Article 85 of the Act on research activities in the centres of the National Health System, as agreed in the Commission. Currently, the research carried out in Spanish hospitals is not yet associated with a research career, reaching the point that there is no research post in the National Health System. We believe that the country needs to recognize research staff in health services and hospitals. We are very recently aware of the importance of this research that emerges in relation to the reality of health care, as evidenced, for example, by the pandemic, and we are also aware of the importance of this research and the lack of recognition in working conditions, and even of the lack of recognition in the assessment systems themselves for health personnel who carry out research. In other words, the law must ensure that the clinical teaching staff must be linked to a health centre and that their clinical responsibility and scientific contribution must be recognized with the value and weight they have, as it seems that it will eventually be. That is why we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the Socialist Group, Mr Alfonso Cendón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for our National System of Science, Technology and Innovation, a crucial day for our scientists, for our researchers, for the attraction and retention of talent, for public research bodies, for universities, for technological centres, for the business fabric, for citizenship as the last recipient of knowledge, but above all it is a decisive day for the future of Spain. Louis Pasteur said: 'Science is the soul of the prosperity of nations and the source of life of all progress.' We are therefore faced with one of the most important laws for the future of our country, although its approval probably does not generate great headlines; it comes without noise, without stridentities, but with much work, fruit of consensus, and with a clear vocation: to transform and improve our country. [[Applauds]] Let us do among all and among all that science takes on the main role it deserves. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group it has always been a dogma that science, technology and innovation are fundamental tools to ensure our progress and development. It is a mantra that is part of our DNA, with which we identify and which we pride ourselves on, and it does not hurt us to work without rest both for the increase of the rights of scientific and research personnel and for the improvement of our national system of science and technology. Therefore, we are sure that today with this law we will give a boost that consolidates science and innovation as the vault keys that guarantee our future and our prosperity. This is undoubtedly our best lever, our social and territorial elevator, which allows us to create and maintain quality jobs, make our companies more productive and competitive and, ultimately, improve our quality of life, that of all and of all, without leaving anyone behind. [[Applauds]] Today we approve in the Congress of Deputies the modification of our legal framework, which not only meets the demands of the scientific community, but puts us at the forefront of the science and technology of the European Union, defending, as we Socialists have always done, the values of Illustration, the use of reason, scientific research to address the problems and to give answers to the unknowns of life in the face of the denial and the far-right sciences. [[Applauds]] Science has proved, after the health crisis of the COVID-19 and natural disasters such as that of the volcano of La Palma, to be the only response to these kinds of challenges. Given the importance of the moment, let me recall the foundations of this new framework for science, technology and innovation, which had their inspiration, were established and consolidated by socialist governments, because all the advances in science in this country have had the signature of socialists such as Felipe Gonzalez, like José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and like Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] First with the 1986 Act, under the command of Minister Maravall, laying the foundations for a modern Spain that was incorporated into the European Union. In 2011, at the hands of Minister Garmendia, in a situation of economic crisis and great uncertainty that required a renewed legal framework. We now have the opportunity to live up to new times, replicating in this House the feeling of the adoption of previous laws, following again an agreement that will contribute to the improvement of our system of science, technology and innovation, and that will serve as a committed and responsible tribute to the future contributions that science reports to us. Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, who was also Minister of Education and Science in the 1990s, said in 2017 about the scientific policy of the government of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy: Perhaps it is the sector of scientific research in which there is a greater contradiction between what is said and what is done. Today we have the capacity to amend that lack of coherence, leaving behind definitively the lost decade of the People's Party that has so much left our scientists, our scientists, who have condemned many to exile. There is no doubt that today the Socialist Party and this progressive government are going to show that what they say is being done. [[Applauds]] And finally, after decades of demonstrating the need to ensure stable funding for our science system, we will establish by law that our resources must be directed towards R & D policies, thus contributing to European objectives and expressing our deep conviction that it is right with our current society, but also with our future society. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a change in the law that reflects the general feeling of this House, but also of the citizenry. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their willingness and effort in the handling of this bill; a law that is of all people, which reflects the spirit of the Pact for Science, Technology and Innovation, agreed just a few months ago in this House, and which undoubtedly expresses broad and new commitments to R & D+i. I would therefore like to thank the Minister of Science and Innovation, Diana Morant, for her willingness to dialogue, for her concern to seek a solid political consensus, by incorporating the contributions of the scientific community and of civil society as a whole, which has come to contribute, to make a law of high quality and undoubted social consensus that persists over time, such as the previous laws. Finally, I would like to acknowledge all scientists, all researchers, technical and managerial staff, universities, technological centres, public research bodies and companies that are working on R & D+i, to make science thrive in this land, in our country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are back to making history; remember: by betting on science our country is moving forward and we all win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Alfonso. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u70	Good morning to everyone and everyone. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Not yet a year ago I assumed the post of Minister of Science and Innovation with a clear mandate: to promote a new law of science for this country that was up to our scientists and scientists. Today I appear before you to request your definitive support for a text that responds to this demand, a law that I am proud of and in which I have worked with determination and personal involvement since my first day in the ministry. We wanted to strongly encourage R & D & I and its transfer to generate knowledge and scientific leadership, to improve the working conditions of research staff. That's how we promise and that's how we pick it up in this law. The text that I submit to you represents a timely and consensual law. It is timely, because it solves the most pressing problems of the Spanish system of science, technology and innovation; and it is a consensual law, because it has been debated and improved by the scientific, business and social organisations most representative of the system of science, also by the political groups represented here in this Parliament. Perhaps this is its most important value, we are faced with a text born of dialogue. I myself have met with multiple collectives and associations and with many and many of you; we have spoken, we have called every possible door, because we were convinced that a law like this should be participated, agreed and worked for all and for all. This will is demonstrated by the facts. More than six hundred proposals - many of them of the same meaning - were received in the public hearing procedure, of which 85 % were met and incorporated. I would like to highlight as one of the major contributions of this period, the most relevant, the shielding for public financing in R & D+i, in accordance with European legislation, to increase steadily to 1.25% of GDP by 2030. Similarly, and since its submission to Congress three and a half months ago, more than one hundred amendments have been accepted, negotiated and incorporated into the text. These proposals were put forward and agreed by twelve political groups: Unidade Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, Ciudadanos, PDeCAT, Junts, Más País, Bildu, Partido Popular, Partido Nacionalista Vasco, Teruel Existe, Block Nacionalista Galego and Coalition Canaria. From my first day in the ministry I extended my hand to accomplish this task together. So, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your constructive work. [[Applauds]] And thank you very much and very special to the members of the Socialist Group Sandra Guaita and Javier Cendón for your talent, your dialogue and your fruitful work. [[Applauds]] Today, politics responds to the demands of the scientific community. This law does not belong to us, its main contributors are the workers of the science and innovation system. The law that we are voting on today has great advances and strengths. We are faced with a text that reinforces the social aspects of scientific, technological and innovation policy with new advances in gender equality and reconciliation, protecting diversity and acting against harassment; a law that considers science as a common good, including citizen participation and dissemination as pillars of the system, and strengthening policies of open access to all results of publicly funded research. It is an articulate that shields funding, reduces precariousness with an indefinite new contract, provides for the right to compensation in pre- and post-doctoral contracts, improves working conditions and prospects for the stabilization of young researchers, and reduces administrative burdens on the justification of aid. Finished. In 1866, the Nobel Prize winner José Echegaray uttered the strong phrase: There is no history of science in Spain; here there was nothing but whip, iron, blood, prayers, coals and smoke. Echegaray referred to a country that turned its back on Illustration, scientific revolution and progress. With the law that we are voting on today, we give impetus to science and innovation in our country, connecting our system with Europe and the world after a decade of setback and cuts. We are facing a key moment. International competition for scientific talent has intensified and we cannot stand still. The quality of Spanish science depends on our ability to attract and retain our own, the best, also to provide decent professional conditions to our young researchers. I am sure that we are facing the best possible law for a realizable future. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]] - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ESTABLISHING RULES FOR THE USE OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND OTHER TYPES FOR THE PREVENTION, DETECTION, INVESTIGATION OR ENJOYMENT OF CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS, AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 8/1980 OF 22 SEPTEMBER, FINANCING OF THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES AND OTHER RELATED PROVISIONS AND AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE PENAL CODE [[SUBJECT TO THE DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ESTABLISHING RULES FOR THE USE OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND OTHER TYPES FOR THE PREVENTION, DETECTION, INVESTIGATION OR INJURY OF CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS]] [[VOTING]] [[File number 121/000099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Given the number of votes, we have reduced the voting time from fifteen to ten seconds. We start with committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Draft Organic Law establishing rules to facilitate the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences, amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September, financing of autonomous communities and other related provisions, and amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 15, 289 in favour, 309 in favour, and 309 in favour, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u75	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 47 plus 1 telematics vote, 48; against, 272 plus 19 telematics votes, 291.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u76	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 94 plus 4 telematics votes, 98; against, 175 plus 15 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 49 plus 1 telematics votes, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u77	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 318 plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 141 plus 5 telematics votes, 146; against, 175 plus 15 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u78	They're rejected. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 14/2011 OF 1 JUNE, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION. [[VOTING]] [[File number 121/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u79	Bill amending Act 14/2011 of 1 June 2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV. Amendment 84. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 122 plus 5 telematics votes, 127; 187 plus 15 telematics votes, 202; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u80	It's rejected. Amendment 89. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 36 plus 1 telematics votes, 37; against, 279 plus 19 telematics votes, 298; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u81	It's rejected. Amendment 91. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 39 plus 1 telematics votes, 40; against, 186 plus 15 telematics votes, 201; abstentions, 94 plus 4 telematics votes, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u82	It's rejected. Amendment 95. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 127 plus 5 telematics votes, 132; against, 185 plus 15 telematics votes, 200; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u83	It's rejected. Amendment 96. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 120 plus 5 telematics votes, 125; 139 plus 14 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 60 plus 1 telematics votes, 61.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u84	It's rejected. Rest of amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-VNV-Vasco Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 31 plus 1 telematics votes, 32; against, 271 plus 19 telematics votes, 290; abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u85	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 30. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour, 20 against, 166 and 15 votes in favour, 181; abstentions, 133 and 5 votes in favour, 138.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u86	It's rejected. Amendment 35. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 144 plus 5 telematics votes, 149; 172 plus 15 telematics votes, 187; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u87	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 61. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 126 plus 5 telematics votes, 131; against, 145 plus 14 telematics votes, 159; abstentions, 48 plus 1 telematics vote, 49.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u88	It's rejected. Amendment 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 318 plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 38; against, 223 plus 18 telematics votes, 241; abstentions, 57 plus 2 telematics votes, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u89	It's rejected. Amendment 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 25 in favour, 149 in favour and 14 in favour, 163 in favour, 145 in favour and 6 in favour, 151 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u90	It's rejected. Amendment 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 38 plus 1 telematics vote, 39; against, 270 plus 19 telematics votes, 289; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u91	It's rejected. Amendment 66. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 20 telematics votes, 338; 117 plus 5 telematics votes, 122; 199 plus 15 telematics votes, 214; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u92	It's rejected. Amendment 67. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 37 plus 1 telematics vote, 38; against, 278 plus 19 telematics votes, 297; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u93	It's rejected. Amendment 68. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 33; 224 plus 18 telematics votes, 242; abstentions, 62 plus 2 telematics votes, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u94	It's rejected. Amendments 70 and 78. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 40; 193 plus 16 telematics votes, 209; abstentions, 86 plus 4 telematics votes, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u95	They're rejected. Amendments 71 and 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 29 against, 286 votes in favour, 306, abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u96	They're rejected. Amendment 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematic votes, 339; in favour, 38 plus 1 telematic vote, 39; against, 225 plus 18 telematic votes, 243; abstentions, 56 plus 1 telematic vote, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u97	It's rejected. Amendment 74. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematic votes, 339; in favour, 126 plus 4 telematic votes, 130; against, 144 plus 15 telematic votes, 159; abstentions, 49 plus 1 telematic vote, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u98	It's rejected. Amendment 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 votes, plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 121 plus 4 telematics votes, 125; against, 188 plus 15 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 10 plus 1 telematics vote, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u99	It's rejected. Amendments 80 and 383. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 29 against, 279 votes in favour, 299 votes in favour, 11 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u100	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 318 plus 20 by-laws, 338; in favour, 29; against, 283 plus 20 by-laws, 303; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u101	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendment 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 29 in favour, 279 in favour, 19 in favour, 298 in favour, 11 in favour, 1 in favour, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u102	It's rejected. Amendment 101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 by-laws, 339; in favour, 86 plus 1 by-laws, 87; against, 232 plus 19 by-laws, 251; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u103	It's rejected. Amendment 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 by-laws, 339; in favour, 76 plus 1 by-laws, 77; against, 232 plus 19 by-laws, 251; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u104	It's rejected. Amendments 106 and 112. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 41; against, 225 plus 18 telematics votes, 243; abstentions, 53 plus 2 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u105	They're rejected. Amendment 107. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 33 in favour, 194 in favour, 16 in favour, 210 in favour, 92 in favour and 4 in favour, 96 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u106	It's rejected. Amendments 109 and 124. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 170 plus 5 telematics votes, 175; against, 140 plus 14 telematics votes, 145; abstentions, 9 plus 1 telematics vote, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u107	They're approved. Amendment 110. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 124 plus 4 telematics votes, 128; 142 plus 14 telematics votes, 156; abstentions, 53 plus 2 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u108	It's rejected. Amendment 111. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 72 plus 1 telematics vote, 73; against, 143 plus 14 telematics votes, 157; abstentions, 104 plus 5 telematics votes, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u109	It's rejected. Amendment 118. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 29; 234 plus 18 telematics votes, 252; abstentions, 56 plus 2 telematics votes, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u110	It's rejected. Amendment 122. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 41 in favour, 144 and 15 in favour, 159; abstentions, 134 and 5 in favour, 139.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u111	It's rejected. Amendment 125. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 28 against, 276 votes in favour, 296 votes in favour, 15 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u112	It's rejected. Amendment 127. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 29; 229 plus 19 telematics votes, 248; abstentions, 61 plus 1 telematics vote, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u113	It's rejected. Amendment 128. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 36; against, 229 plus 19 telematics votes, 248; abstentions, 54 plus 1 telematics vote, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u114	It's rejected. Amendment 129. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 126 plus 5 telematics votes, 131; against, 142 plus 14 telematics votes, 156; abstentions, 51 plus 1 telematics vote, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u115	It's rejected. Amendment 130. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 318 votes, plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 35; against, 196 plus 16 telematics votes, 212; abstentions, 87 plus 4 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u116	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 318 votes, plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 36; against, 139 plus 14 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 143 plus 6 telematics votes, 149.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u117	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 234. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 27 against, 279 in favour, 19 in favour, 298 in favour, 13 in favour, 1 in favour, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u118	It's rejected. Amendment 235. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 37; 226 plus 18 telematics votes, 244; abstentions, 56 plus 2 telematics votes, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u119	It's rejected. Amendment 238. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 98 plus 5 telematics votes, 103; against, 207 plus 15 telematics votes, 222; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u120	It's rejected. Amendment 241. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 by-laws, 339; in favour, 92 plus 4 by-laws, 96; against, 212 plus 15 by-laws, 227; abstentions, 15 plus 1 by-laws, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u121	The amendment was rejected. Amendment 245. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 19 against, 285 votes in favour, 194 votes in favour, 15 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u122	It's rejected. Amendment 252. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 144 plus 5 telematics votes, 149; 157 plus 14 telematics votes, 171; abstentions, 18 plus 1 telematics vote, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u123	It's rejected. Amendment 253. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 votes, plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 68 plus 1 telematics vote, 69; against, 165 plus 14 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 86 plus 5 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u124	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 107 plus 5 telematics votes, 112; 205 plus 15 telematics votes, 220; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u125	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. Amendment 133. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 122 plus 5 telematics votes, 127; 195 plus 15 telematics votes, 210; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u126	It's rejected. Amendments 134 and 164. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 29 in favour, 186 in favour, 15 in favour, 201 in favour, 104 in favour and 5 in favour, 109 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u127	They're rejected. Amendments 137, 145 and 146. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 35 plus 1 telematics votes, 36; against, 279 plus 19 telematics votes, 298; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u128	They're rejected. Amendment 138. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 318 plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 36; against, 270 plus 19 telematics votes, 289; abstentions, 12 plus 1 telematics vote, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u129	It's rejected. Amendment 140. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 32 plus 1 telematics votes, 33; against, 193 plus 15 telematics votes, 208; abstentions, 94 plus 4 telematics votes, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u130	It's rejected. Amendment 144. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 42 plus 1 telematics votes, 43; against, 140 plus 14 telematics votes, 154; abstentions, 137 plus 5 telematics votes, 142.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u131	It's rejected. Amendments 155 and 169. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 19 against, 149 votes in favour, 163 votes against, 151 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u132	They're rejected. Amendment 163. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 110 plus 4 telematics votes, 114; against, 187 plus 15 telematics votes, 202; abstentions, 22 plus 1 telematics vote, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u133	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 by-laws, 339; in favour, 26; against, 270 plus 19 by-laws, 289; abstentions, 23 plus 1 by-laws, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u134	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 231. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 89 plus 2 telematics votes, 91; 144 plus 14 telematics votes, 158; abstentions, 86 plus 4 telematics votes, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u135	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Amendment 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 178 plus 14 telematics votes, 192; 136 plus 5 telematics votes, 141; abstentions, 5 plus 1 telematics vote, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u136	It's approved. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 345, 357, 370, 371 and 375. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 133 plus 5 telematics votes, 138; 185 plus 15 telematics votes, 200; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u137	They're rejected. Amendments 346, 349, 350, 352, 353, 363, 364, 366 and 377. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 50 plus 1 telematics vote, 51; against, 268 plus 19 telematics votes, 287; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u138	They're rejected. Amendments 348, 365, 368 and 373. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 by-laws, 339; in favour, 56 plus 1 by-laws, 57; against, 179 plus 15 by-laws, 194; abstentions, 84 plus 4 by-laws, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u139	They're rejected. Amendment 355. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 by-laws, 339; in favour, 48 plus 1 by-laws, 49; against, 263 plus 19 by-laws, 282; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u140	It's rejected. Amendment 356. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 votes, plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 132 plus 5 telematics votes, 137; against, 178 plus 15 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u141	It's rejected. Amendments 360, 376, 378 and 379. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 140 plus 5 telematics votes, 145; against, 178 plus 15 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u142	They're rejected. Amendment 361. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 318 plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 143 plus 6 telematics votes, 149; against, 174 plus 14 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u143	It's rejected. Amendment 362. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematic votes, 339; 56 plus 1 telematic vote, 57; 258 plus 18 telematic votes, 276; abstentions, 5 plus 1 telematic vote, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u144	It's rejected. Amendments 367. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 56 plus 1 telematics vote, 57; against, 263 plus 19 telematics votes, 282.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u145	It's rejected. Amendment 380. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 143 plus 5 telematics votes 148; against, 171 plus 14 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 5 plus 1 telematics vote, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u146	It's rejected. Amendment 381. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 48 plus 1 telematics vote, 49; against, 181 plus 14 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 90 plus 5 telematics votes, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u147	It's rejected. Amendment 382. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 56 plus 1 telematics vote, 57; 174 plus 14 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 89 plus 5 telematics votes, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u148	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 by-laws, 339; in favour, 48 plus 1 by-laws, 49; against, 187 plus 15 by-laws, 202; abstentions, 84 plus 4 by-laws, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u149	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 273, 275 and 326. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 85 plus 4 telematics votes, 89; against, 232 plus 16 telematics votes, 248; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u150	They're rejected. Amendment 278. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 97 plus 4 telematics votes, 101; against, 211 plus 15 telematics votes, 226; abstentions, 11 plus 1 telematics vote, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u151	It's rejected. Amendments 279, 280, 304 and 318. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 98 plus 5 telematics votes, 103; against, 171 plus 14 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 50 plus 1 telematics vote, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u152	They're rejected. Amendment 281. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; 134 plus 5 telematics votes, 139; 168 plus 14 telematics votes, 182; abstentions, 17 plus 1 telematics vote, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u153	It's rejected. Amendments 282, 286, 292, 295, 317 and 328. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 votes, plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 146 plus 6 telematics votes, 152; against, 171 plus 14 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u154	They're rejected. Amendment 287. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 100 plus 5 telematics votes, 105; against, 208 plus 15 telematics votes, 223; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u155	It's rejected. Amendments 289, 309, 314, 319 and 334. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 97 plus 4 telematics votes, 101; against, 167 plus 14 telematics votes, 181; abstentions, 55 plus 2 telematics votes, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u156	They're rejected. Amendment 290. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 318 plus 20 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 110 plus 4 telematics votes, 114; against, 150 plus 14 telematics votes, 164; abstentions, 58 plus 2 telematics votes, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u157	It's rejected. Amendment 293. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 144 plus 5 votes in favour, 149 against, 172 plus 15 votes in favour, 187; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u158	It's rejected. Amendments 297 and 301. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; 141 plus 5 telematics votes, 146; 169 plus 14 telematics votes, 183; abstentions, 10 plus 1 telematics vote, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u159	They're rejected. Amendment 302. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 90 plus 4 telematics votes, 94; against, 171 plus 14 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 59 plus 2 telematics votes, 61.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u160	It's rejected. Amendment 305. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; 154 plus 6 telematics votes, 160; 165 plus 14 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u161	It's rejected. Amendment 307. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; 108 plus 5 telematics votes, 113; 211 plus 15 telematics votes, 226; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u162	It's rejected. Amendments 308 and 316. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 20 by-elections, 339; 84 plus 4 by-elections, 88; 221 plus 16 by-elections, 237; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u163	They're rejected. Amendment 320. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 98 plus 4 telematics votes, 102; against, 219 plus 16 telematics votes, 235; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u164	It's rejected. Amendments 324, 325 and 338. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 20 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 93 plus 4 telematics votes, 97; against, 176 plus 15 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 50 plus 1 telematics vote, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u165	They're rejected. Amendment 330. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; 139 plus 6 telematics votes, 145; 165 plus 14 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u166	It's rejected. Amendment 335. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 103 plus 4 telematics votes, 107; against, 154 plus 14 telematics votes, 168; abstentions, 63 plus 2 telematics votes, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u167	It's rejected. Amendment 337. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; 90 plus 4 telematics votes, 94; 168 plus 14 telematics votes, 182; abstentions, 62 plus 2 telematics votes, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u168	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematic votes, 340; 133 plus 5 telematic votes, 138; 173 plus 14 telematic votes, 187; abstentions, 14 plus 1 telematic vote, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u169	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from now on, for a period of 45 minutes, that is to say, until 1 p.m. today, the rest of the items on the agenda which will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting will be voted on by telematics. Therefore, we will suspend the session for an hour. The vote on these points will take place once the vote has been resumed. The meeting was suspended until 1 p.m. and 15 minutes. Thank you very much. It was 12:15 at noon. The meeting resumed at 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u171	We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining items on the agenda. We begin with the consideration of proposals for reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Proposal of the Republican, Plural and Basque Parliamentary Groups to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies on the use of official languages and recognized statutoryly in their autonomous communities in the Congress of Deputies. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; 65 plus 6 telematics votes, 71; 253 plus 15 telematics votes, 268; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u172	Consequently, the proposed reform of the Regulation is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u173	It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, amending Law 22/1973 of 21 July of Minas. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 31 plus 5 telematics votes, 36; against, 267 plus 16 telematics votes, 283; abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u174	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u175	No-law propositions. No bill by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the defence and promotion of public schools. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 votes, 341; 148 plus 14 telematics votes, 162; 135 plus 6 telematics votes, 141; abstentions, 37 plus 1 telematics vote, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u176	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ADOPTION OF URGENT CONTRACTS WITH THE OBJECT OF FRENCH THE MASSIMMIGRATION OF IRREGULAR TO OUR COSTS. [[File number 162/000462]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u177	No legislative proposal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the adoption of urgent countermeasures in order to curb the massive wave of irregular immigration to our shores. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 319 plus 21 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 49 plus 2 telematics votes, 51; against, 270 plus 19 telematics votes, 289.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u178	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u179	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Minister of Finance and Public Service to explain the measures aimed at preventing us from losing EUR 5 billion from cohesion funds because of the government's inaction. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; 141 plus 6 telematics votes, 147; 163 plus 15 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u180	The motion was therefore rejected. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the need to take into consideration by the Government of the Teruel City candidatura to host [[LORD GIUTARTE GIMENO]] THE HEAD OF THE SPANISH SPACE AGENCY, IN ATTENTION TO THE POTENTIALITIES RECEIVED BY THE CITY FOR THE UICATION OF THIS PUBLIC ENTITY AND IN CONHERENCE WITH THE GOVERNMENT'S COMMITMENTS TO ADVANCED TERRITORIAL COHESION. [[File number 173/000157]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u181	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, on the necessary consideration by the Government of the candidacy of the city of Teruel to host it headquarters of the Spanish Space Agency, in view of the potentialities of the city for the location of this public entity and in line with the Government's commitments to advance territorial cohesion. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 20 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 157 plus 14 telematics votes, 171; against, 3; abstentions, 160 plus 6 telematics votes, 166.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u182	Accordingly, the motion was adopted. - the EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU Parliamentary Group, on the impact of the Eurobarometer on HYPOTHETICS, in a context of crisis and inflation, and the measures to pay. [[File number 173/000158]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u183	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group concerning the impact on mortgages of the rise of the Eurobor, in a context of crisis and inflation, and the measures to link it. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; 65 plus 6 telematics votes, 71; 246 plus 15 telematics votes, 261; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u184	Point No 1 is therefore rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 66 plus 6 telematics votes, 72; against, 254 plus 15 telematics votes, 269.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u185	Point 2 is therefore rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; 56 plus 5 telematics votes, 61; 251 plus 16 telematics votes, 267; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u186	Point 3 is therefore rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 61 plus 5 telematics votes, 66; against, 245 plus 15 telematics votes, 260; abstentions, 14 plus 1 telematics vote, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u187	Point 4 is therefore rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 56 plus 5 telematics votes, 61; against, 253 plus 15 telematics votes, 268; abstentions, 11 plus 1 telematics vote, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u188	Point 5 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u189	Opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives. Draft Organic Law laying down rules facilitating the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences, amending Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September, Financing of the Autonomous Communities and other related provisions and amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; 174 plus 15 telematics votes, 189; against, 2; abstentions, 144 plus 6 telematics votes, 150.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u190	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u191	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 175 plus 15 telematics votes, 190; against, 1; abstentions, 144 plus 6 telematics votes, 150.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u192	Accordingly, the draft organic law was adopted. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 14/2011 OF 1 JUNE, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION. [[File number 121/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u193	Vote on the opinion of the draft law amending Law 14/2011 of 1 June 2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation, incorporating the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 21 telematics votes, 341; 261 plus 18 telematics votes, 279; abstentions, 59 plus 3 telematics votes, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-23-CD220623.u194	The opinion was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] Very good afternoon, everyone. The meeting rose. It was one and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
