ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Adolfo Suárez Illana, he asked Don Miguel Ángel Quintanilla Navarro if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u3	He has acquired the full status of MP Don Miguel Ángel Quintanilla Navarro. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the questions are discussed in accordance with the following order: agenda items 23, 25, 26 and 24. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u5	We begin with the discussion of taking into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, amending Law 11/2002 of 6 May, Regulator of the National Intelligence Centre; and Organic Law 2/2002 of 6 May, Regulator of the previous judicial control of the National Intelligence Centre. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, about half a year ago we witnessed a major scandal which culminated in the cessation of the Secretariat of State which was in charge of the National Intelligence Centre; a scandal which referred to espionage, through the Pegasus programme, the President, several ministers and ministers, and political and institutional representatives, apparently with formal judicial authorization. As a result, the President of the Government appeared on 26 May and in the debate that was sparked he literally said: He also announced that the Government will reform the regulatory organic law of judicial control of the CNI in line with the recommendations of the Ombudsman. The aim is to strengthen the guarantees of such control, in addition to ensuring maximum respect for the individual and political rights of individuals. We do not know what happened to the promise, but the truth is that there is no news of any preliminary draft and we, shortly before that debate, have already presented this initiative to the shortcomings we see in the law. Remember that the current laws regulating the National Intelligence Centre are a response to the irregularities of listening between 1983 and 1991 by Mr Manglano and Mr Perote, then called CSIC and not CNI. In this proposal for a law we propose a double reform of both laws, that of the CNI and that of the control of the organism. Considering the pattern that the President himself set in that debate on 26 May, there must be and there is judicial control, there is economic control and there is parliamentary control. I will start with the first, the judicial, which is, in my opinion, the most likely to be truly effective. From those circumstances of six months ago and, as a result of what we learned through the debate and the Commission itself of official secrets, the conclusion is that the judge did not know what means were to be used or their scope. And this must be said so, because in reality what the judge authorized were the own and other means, without specifying anything else. What were those means? Others who, on top of it, could suspect very little that a new software - of which some things had been written in the press, but which apparently had very few Governments -, as was the Pegasus, would be able to be used by the CNI, a program that, as you know, is very invasive of intimacy because it tracks absolutely everything and leaves no trace. At no time did the judge know what means he was adopting. That an investigation had to be done? Yeah, but you didn't know how the CNI was gonna do it. And that is what we are trying to correct, because the means and resources with the specific characteristics of each of them must be specified - when authorization is requested - with the specific characteristics of each of them. Why? Because the proportionality judgment must be sought in the measures to be taken and, if the exact means in particular are not known, it is impossible to make that proportionality judgment. In addition, realize that the issues we are talking about are not something that I have done: the inviolability of the home and the secrecy of communications. They are not nonsense and we will have to really measure that proportionality; as the law is, it is impossible. Moreover, the estimation of that proportionality should not be or should not be, in our opinion, in essence carried out by a person who can interpret in various ways what could be authorized or not, depending on his or her vision. We are talking about rights that are important enough to make it very clear that they need to be warmed up, and that is why it is necessary to compete with a number of people. That is why we propose that the trial be established by three Supreme Court judges and that they agree unanimously, because then the case will be clear and obvious. If you read the laws that are in force right now, you will see that there is no instance to prove that the CNI has complied with the authorization. In fact, the law is called prior control, which means that, if authorization occurs, the CNI is not actually going to be controlled and can conform to that authorization or, if it has decided to do so, go further. There is, logically, no possibility of appeal to another body against this authorization, it is secret and the person to whom it is going to affect obviously cannot know it. Therefore, I insist, not having this instance and not having any control, something really fails the system to be complete. So what do we propose? An ex post control, that is, that, at the end of the time for which the investigation has been authorized and that we do not touch it in our proposal, the judge requires explanations to the CNI, which must give by law, of how he has developed those investigations and what means he has used; or, when the extension of these extraordinary measures is requested, that we do not touch that they can be so nor the time, it is also again verified whether the CNI has actually adjusted to the law. The President also referred to political control, to political control, which I would say must not only refer, as he referred to, to the Committee on Reserved Expenditure; I believe it must also be controlled by the Government. It seems to me that the issues that the CNI deals with are delicate enough and important enough for the president to know first hand, not in detail, nor much less, what matters concern Spanish intelligence. A democratic government must know operational decisions and must not use secret services for its own interests. It's not the same, they're not confused, but knowing operational decisions is. It is not logical, therefore, that the Minister of Defence or another minister should propose who is going to be the head, but that the President of the Government himself should do so. It is a necessary but delicate service and there must be a link and a political and direct responsibility of the highest responsible. The Secretariat of State and the Technical Secretariat should therefore be proposed by the President. And then we come to the Congress of Deputies' Committee on Reserved Expenses. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u7	Mr. Esteban, just a moment, please. There's a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. If we comply with the law, it is not envisaged that the Commission will be able to know what means have been used by the Agency and it seems to us that, if we really have to carry out control, political control, as the President said, this must be so. It must also include the means employed and not just the material operations authorized by the judges, if that control is truly believed. I believe that even more can be done without the need to reform the law. I'll give you an example. Six months ago, the Commission agreed to a text which had been marked and we had ten minutes to review a dossier of this size, while the Ombudsman - who does not appear anywhere to be involved in this matter - had access, as he said, for as long as he wanted to, to the above-mentioned dossier, and I imagine that, in addition, there were no spots. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo makes a gesture with his hands indicating a large size]] That is not normal, and for that there is no need to change the law, so what is needed is a certain will within the House because, today, control is not real. Nor, as the president said, is there economic control. There is no real economic control of the reserved expenses or of the expenses that the CNI does. Why? We will see it next Friday because the Minister of Defence is coming to explain in a Committee on Reserved Expenses what expenses there have been. They're going to be a series of figures, which won't give us time or point them at us, and some generic ratings and we won't know anything else at all. Is that the control of the reserved expenses? I do not know whether it should be this Commission or a more restricted body, I do not know, but we have to agree on a solution. It is not possible in this law and we are not raising it, but I do think it is an issue to reflect on. There are other changes that we propose that refer to the adaptation of language, because language is absolutely masculine. It is not envisaged, as now, that there is a secretary of state - Mrs Esteban was not at the head of the CNI, but a secretary of state, a technical secretary general, etc., and we therefore change that language to be more inclusive. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the CNI and the intelligence services are necessary services for a State, we do not question that, but it is true that they are sometimes used for improper tasks of those services, such as covering the inappropriate and irregular behaviour of the former head of State. Now I believe that there is an opportunity for the Socialist Group to keep that word - I refer to the Socialist Group because the President undertook to change and improve the control of the CNI - of the government and of the whole House. Don't look for excuses like, for example, it seems to you that three judges are too many, that they should be two or that I would do this or the other. Take it into consideration, then let it be dealt with - don't make me like the Official Secrets Act - and propose amendments. But if the majority of the House is satisfied that the regulation is obsolete, forced by a period of those illegal listenings, which were, moreover, punished by the courts, but that now, given what has happened with the Pegasus program, we are realizing that we need an ex post control, a control over who the operations are directed and also on what means, and that the judge or the corresponding judges may have more tools, in our opinion, to make that decision, there is an opportunity. Take it into consideration, let us go ahead and put forward amendments. I trust that. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u9	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. If you enter the CNI website, you are already on the cover with this phrase: We always act under the supervision and control of the executive, legislative and judicial powers. Is that true? Let's look into the Pegasus case. Judicial Power Control. The only thing we know is that the Supreme Judge, Mr. Pablo Lucas, authorized as many petitions as the CNI submitted to him. In other words, he did not see any excess or violation of fundamental rights to rule out any of these petitions or in the case, for example, of espionage to lawyers, which clearly violates the right to defence. What kind of judicial control is that? Can we expect something from the Spanish judiciary to protect us from the excesses of the CNI? I say this because most of the 65 spies have filed complaints for such acts. The laziness with which the investigation proceedings are handled - without pointing out, for example, the agencies of the State, the economic trace that may have left the purchase of the programmer or that, even the first of these complaints were aimed at archiving - and this laxity gives rise to the thought of the defencelessness in which one citizen of the Spanish State is found when he is spied by the State itself. Let's take control of the Legislature. It is supposed to be through this Commission called secrets, since other options, such as a commission of inquiry, were denied to us. But there the limits are also obvious. We were shown the court orders of a much smaller number than the 65 reported by The Citizen Lab. What about the rest? I would add that we were given a short time to examine them and that even the orders had names marked. In the European Parliament, where there is a committee of inquiry, on the 29th we saw a paper by the director of the CNI with a laconic intervention, since he did not answer any of the questions that the MEPs had put to him. Go with the control of the Legislature! Finally, the control of the Executive. The official version is that President Sánchez and Minister Robles were not in the case of espionage. Thus, it can be understood that they ceased the previous director of the CNI. If we believe his version, the control is very poor. I can already imagine the frivolity with which the judges, the government or even the deputies, who are supposed to have to control the CNI, take our complaints. Little has been spied upon, one of his lordships let go, perhaps saying what many think. But we're not the only ones who report it. Think that the Spanish State in Europe is on this issue at the same time as Poland and Hungary; that the State has not yet replied to the European Commissioner for Justice, Mr Reynders, who asked them for written explanations of the use of Pegasus; that the report of the European Parliament's Committee of Inquiry, presented by the Dutch Liberal MEP Sophie in 't Veld, maintains that the espionage was done to 65 people, giving good figures to The Citizen Lab, and accuses them of being hiding information, and that, finally, they will most likely fall back on this issue in the spring of the Assembly of Parliamentarians of the Council of Europe. Think about this and perhaps you will see with other eyes the proposal that is being voted on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u11	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u12	Thank you very much, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, do any of you know why the director of the CNI, Mrs. Paz Esteban, has ceased? Is anyone clear? Because, if we take into account that the Government said that everything had been legal and that everything had been done with judicial authorization, what was the reason why he ceased or, in the Minister's words, replaced this person? She was fired with congratulations and honours and, in the words of the minister, it was said that nothing would change. Why did he stop it? And what happened to the proposals that Mr Sánchez announced here in this court last May? There's none that's set in motion. What's going on? The 'catalangate', that is, massive listening to independent representatives and activists, and Melilla's tragedy are the most serious issues that have occurred in this legislature and are the worst managed by the government. They've done it a little bit. They began by denying the evidence, then accepting that something had happened and then announcing some partial measures with a total lack of transparency, and we have been waiting for a dignified response to each other for months. The Catalangate or Pegasus case was discovered by the University of Toronto's university institute, which discovered that at least 65 people had been intrusively spied on with Pegasus software. The Government, which initially denied it, later said that some, not so many, had been spied on and that all had been spied on with judicial authorization. What about the rest? They only recognized a quarter of those espionages. And who made the other three quarters? Does it not interest the Government to find out who was behind it, considering that it is an instrument only sold to States and that it was the same political environment, and at the same time the one being spied on? Moreover, of those eighteen authorized or recognized intruders, the times that were exposed in court authorizations did not coincide with those discovered by the University Institute of Toronto. Someone's not telling the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and it's a very serious matter. But it's not only about the disproportion of a judge who accepts each and every one of the requests submitted to him, it's that in addition someone twistedly made a list under charges that he knew were false as trying to unite people, who have always advocated peaceful and democratic ways, with violent facts, so that that judge - who already knew that he was going to authorize them - would give him a positive answer. Now - Mr Botran said so - they have another record, it is not that they are up to Hungary and Poland, but they have already won them, it is the state of the European Union that has used this software or malware most against political representatives. An instrument designed to combat terrorism and major crime has been used against political opponents. Please bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that in a democracy political opponents are not spyed on with or without judicial authorization and that in a democracy those instruments of espionage against dissent or against political dissidents are not used. In addition, as another spokesman has also commented, the European Commission has denounced that Spain is not cooperating and that it is the only State that has not provided the required information on the Pegasus scandal. The director of the CNI came to the European Parliament last week to laugh at the members of the Commission because she did not answer any of the questions that were put to her. Tell me if you're up to it. The Pegasus crisis ended falsely, the announced measures have not been put in place and, as the Minister of Defence said, everything remains the same. Well, today the Basque Nationalist Party is making a proposal for reforms that we believe are more guarantors - it is debatable, but we believe they are more guarantors - than there are now, with which we believe they must be supported. It is true that an intelligence service has to deal with very sensitive matters, that all States have it and, in fact, most of the work they do is secret, hence they are also called secret services, but so there is no intelligence service is, as I said, to spy on dissidents, and we have seen it with the Pegasus case against Catalan and also Basque independenceists; it is not to infiltrate political organizations, as we are seeing; it is not - it has been news lately - to send the director of that secret service to threaten the mistress of the head of State in London, and it is not, as we have recently known in Basque Herria, to coerce and pressure the wife of a Basque journalist, as is the case of Pablo González, who has been in prison for nine months. Those who cannot defend themselves against all these atrocities are the citizens who pay for it. The minister said that the CNI cannot defend itself, the highest political leader who defended the indefensible and continues to do so, but we do not know what precise facts can be investigated, because they are secret.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u13	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u14	It's over, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I end by saying that the majority do not agree with these measures to seek more guarantees, but this consideration opens the way to debate and take timely action in order to fulfil that promise that Mr Sánchez made, so that it is not again a promise that has not been fulfilled. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u15	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u16	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are looking at this proposal for a law which Mr Esteban has proposed to us and whose content he has already outlined basically himself. However, the fact that, if this bill were passed, the director of the CNI would be appointed directly by the president of the government, turning the president of the government into a sort of dictator, a Julius Caesar who removes and puts the head of the secret services at his will: whether I like it or not, I remove you or I put you, without even a debate within the Council of Ministers. For, Mr Esteban, I tell you clearly that we in the National Security Act have tabled an amendment that is exactly contrary to what you are proposing. It is no longer that the President of the Government neither removes nor places the director of the National Intelligence Centre; it is that we want it not to be stopped but only through a system of cases assessed, so that it can exercise its function independently of the Government, so that it can perform its function with great technical solvency and not subject to the threat that the President of the Government will cease it if he does not like what he sees. Indeed, we find that you are also trying to enhance the monitoring role of the Committee on Reserved Costs, although in the Committee on Reserved Costs we have Mrs Aizpurua or Mr Rufián. Mr. Rufián runs out after the session of the Committee on Expenditures reserved to tell the media the secrets of the State. As you will understand, you will also not convince us that the information that the Director of the National Intelligence Centre has to provide in the Committee on Reserved Expenses is more comprehensive information on the means used by the CNI, on the interception system, and that you will also have to be held accountable below for the execution of this judicial authorization. What it does is to have greater control over the fact that instead of being a single judge of the Supreme Court replaced by another, it is three judges who have to decide unanimously to authorize this measure of intervention in fundamental rights. Look, we have more than enough for a Supreme Court judge who is replaced by another to do what any Trial and Instruction judge does. Any investigating judge, when agreeing to a communication intervention measure affecting fundamental rights, sees the need to adopt this measure, verifies that there is proportionality and then authorizes it. I don't know why you so suspect that Supreme Court judges don't do this that any investigating judge in our country does in any criminal case. Well, yes, I know, what you always do is sow suspicion, question and discredit any power of the Spanish state - that's what the PNV always does - because you want Spain to go wrong; that's what I'm telling you. Mr Rufián comes out of the meeting of the Committee on Official Secrets and sets up a scandal telling him everything and now you come with this bill in plan that you only want greater guarantees and dress up to greater democratic quality. It has nothing to do with that, it has to do with the campaign of contempt that you are carrying out against the National Intelligence Centre, against all the institutions of the Spanish State that can make Spain a weak country before nationalists and separatists. Of course, they care that there are a number of anonymous public servants who cannot defend themselves and who cannot have any kind of recognition over whom you already directly attribute a presumption of guilt. I have heard here - I think it was you who said it - that the National Intelligence Centre was a fourth state power that was exempt from any kind of control. To say that about the people who play life, who put their personal integrity at risk in the service of Spain and the Spaniards, is an insult. It's an insult! It is a power that acts according to legality and that performs very relevant functions in Spain and outside Spain in defense of national security, in defense of financial intelligence, in defense of cybersecurity and in defense of the unity of Spain. Yes, look, not only Spain, but all the countries in our environment, it turns out that they take care of the territorial unity of their country and do not tolerate that there are some gentlemen who, outside the legal channels, declare the independence of a part of their national territory. What do European countries have, right?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What an attack on the freedom of those who want to break their country! Well, no. What exactly our country's secret services are doing is getting information so that that doesn't happen. That is what Mrs. Paz Esteban explained to us - and not in ten minutes, as Mr. Esteban says -. That is what he explained to us, that it was indeed necessary to combat those who wanted to break the Constitution of our country outside the legal channels and that, for that, it had been legally and legitimately agreed, with the authorization of the judges of the Supreme Court, to intercept his communications. [[Rumors]] What has happened here is that the Presidency's resolution has first been reformed to bring Bildu and Esquerra into the Commission: the Legislature of the knees before the Executive. And of those dusts these muds, which is as I call this proposal a law: a mud that they intend to throw over Spain. Do you really believe that Pedro Sánchez, that everything he touches corrupts him, can be the person who removes and puts the director of the National Intelligence Centre? Do you really believe that our National Intelligence Centre has to advertise the means it uses for intercepting communications so that Mr. Rufián will later tell the media and the bad - let's call them that - that is, the people who are being spyed on, the people who have to be controlled, know what means our State uses and, logically, take preventions and countermeasures? Well, no. [[Rumors]] We're going to vote no and we're going to do it for those public servants who don't have recognition...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u17	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u18	I'm on my way. ...and risk their lives and physical integrity for Spain and for the Spaniards. Let's vote that not with both hands. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u19	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor. [[Rumors]] I would pray silence, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u20	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. In fact, I just wanted to come out here to say that we are going to support the initiative that the Basque Parliamentary Group is presenting to us today, because, after the events that took place a few months ago and the situation still pending to be clarified or resolved, it seems to us a good idea to add more guarantees throughout this process. But after your intervention, Mr Bal, what has become clear to me is that the strength of the state depends on the CNI being able to do and undo without the citizens being sure that certain guarantees are fulfilled within the framework of a rule of law. So I am even more aware of the need to reform the law that is being updated here today. One thing is that we all understand that there has to be intelligence services and that there must be room for manoeuvre, because it happens here and it happens in all the countries of the world. Another thing is to accept that this must be accompanied by a lack of guarantees and security on the part of intelligence services towards citizens. We believe that this is a red line that we cannot cross, that we must not cross and that you should not want to cross. That is why we are voting in favour of this initiative and of this reform, which is the only thing that makes us believe, Mr Bal, is to give more guarantees to the citizens of this country, also to those whom we think differently from the ideological plurality. We will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u21	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u22	Let me begin by answering some of the things Mr Bal has commented on; I have a suspicion that it is what he was looking for. I really liked your primary speech, but it's for Citizens, it's not for VOX, I remember. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] And if you're the red citizen, I don't even want to think about who the blues are. Oh, my God! [[Laughter]] The fact that the Constitution, the State or Spain are on their knees before Esquerra Republicana and Bildu constantly repeats it, and I always say the same thing to him: I am not going to enter into his filias and discursive phobias. [[The lady]] You know that in six years I have been on three commissions of inquiry related to the corruptions of the People's Party and, by extension, to corruptions that had to do with the security and intelligence services in this country, and the truth is that I know a little bit of what it means to have someone who believes, believes and will believe that this country is yours. I have only three cases to expose to you, especially to the patriots, because I understand that we are here in a Chamber full of patriots who are constantly praising their country. I ask you: do you agree that in your time, as has been said, the Spanish intelligence services will supposedly pay for a house or a television program - of a Valencian public television, specifically - so that Barbara Rey would not talk about her relations and the information she had about King Juan Carlos? Do you, as patriots, agree that the security and intelligence services of your country now - now! - pursue and threaten Corinna, supposedly a former lover of King Juan Carlos, so that she does not say what she knows about the corruptions around the Royal House? Is that all right with you? Do you think the intelligence and security services in your country have been linked to state terrorism? Said by some ex-minister, I don't say that. State terrorism! Do you like it as patriots? Do you, as patriots, agree that your country's intelligence and security services have been spying here, as international news said, not only on independenceists - who, well, we are very bad and very bad and can be understood - but also on members of the government? Do you agree that the security and intelligence services of this country themselves say that this is something of a foreign country that has wanted to spy on us or that this is something - eye! - of police or uncontrolled security and intelligence services? Two options: either a foreign country or uncontrolled cops or spies. Either of them is terrible, because either their security and intelligence services are incompetent - and this would be very serious, even if it were so - or they are necessary collaborators, which is even more serious. I ask them as patriots, as people who love - they constantly say - their country. Do you believe that patriotism means that this does not exist and that those who say this are antipatriots, that we are dangerous Bolivian reds who only want Spain on our knees? If I were a Spanish patriot, I wouldn't want this to happen in my country, I wouldn't want it. You want me in your country, what you want when you try to cover this kind of behavior constantly. All I'm asking you to do is stop constantly protecting the villa and the court with your security and intelligence services, because that's what you've been doing - I was going to say eighty - at least forty years. You, with your intelligence services, do not protect the citizenry, do not protect your people, protect the village and the court. And above all, to stop making a fool out of it, I ask you to stop hiring 'torrents'. It's just that I'm sick and tired of interrogating torturers in commissions of inquiry! They're very sorry. Hire someone with a little more... be real patriots. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u24	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an initiative aimed at amending two laws regulating the control of the National Intelligence Centre, which were adopted in 2002, when the newly created CNI replaced the Higher Defence Information Centre, the CSIC. The initiative that we are discussing today was registered in May in the heat of the Pegasus case, which consisted of the espionage of sixty-five activists, lawyers and politicians, whom, according to the University of Toronto Citizen Lab research team, would have spied on the CNI through a spyware program with which intelligence services access mobile phones to literally 'aspirate' data. According to information published in various media outlets, former CNI director, Paz Esteban, admitted to the Official Secrets Commission in May that CNI had investigated the phones of eighteen political leaders. And, of course, beyond the question of the number of spies, this forces us to ask the following question: did the CNI, when spying on these phones, do it through the Pegasus program? I would like to recall and emphasize that Pegasus jumped on the front pages of the media around the world for the first time in 2016, when Citizen Lab discovered the vulnerability of Apple's mobile operating system, just the same as we used by Members of this House. Pegasus is a highly invasive tool that can turn on a person's camera and phone microphone, as well as access device data, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy. In the Confederal Group we understand that the current panorama of cyber espionage, in which new intelligence tactics linked to digital society and artificial intelligence emerge, makes it necessary to reform the CNI's regulatory laws. We believe, however, that the fundamental reform required by the CNI should not be related only to the appointment of the Secretary of State, director or director of the CNI or only to judicial control, but primarily to political control. In the Confederal Group we understand that a reform of the 1968 Official Secrets Act, a Francoist law, as you know, is urgently required. Just three weeks ago, CNI's current director, Esperanza Casteleiro, referred in Brussels to the clauses laid down in the Official Secrets Act to limit or omit some of the answers to the questions posed to her by MEPs on the Pegasus case, which shows the limits that the Official Secrets Act imposes on the exercise of parliamentary control. It is a complete anomaly that the Spanish legal system has an anachronistic law, which must have long since been reformed as a law drafted and adopted in a Francoist Parliament. The question is why it is still in force today. In Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos we think that, obviously, this law of the dictatorship of 1968 has to be modified and aligned with the more advanced democracies. Citizenship has the right to know the details of what has happened in recent cases of illegal political use or alleged espionage of political opponents by the intelligence services, but it is also time to know the truth of a not so recent past, to know, for example, how and who are instrumentalizing the Armed Forces in the 23F coup d'état. President Sánchez, in his May 26 appearance quoted here, expressed his intention to amend both the law governing the functioning of the CNI and the Law on Official Secrets. Since August, a preliminary draft law has been on the table which sets out a text on classified information which recognises the need to provide our legal system with an up-to-date regime in line with European democracies. The interesting thing about this PL, in our opinion, is that it launches an invitation to link the reform of the CNI regulation with going a step further and reforming the Official Secrets Act. Mr Esteban mentioned here precisely that there is a lack of parliamentary control of the CNI, both in terms of reserved expenditure and also in terms of certain operational objectives in particular. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u26	With all due respect, Madam President. His lordship of Bildu asked if anyone knew what the resignation or termination of CNI director, Paz Esteban, was due to. I think all of Spain knows the reasons. The reasons were you, Mr de Esquerra and Mr de PNV, who have taken over the government where you want it. [[applause]] At least they had the dignity, as you have rightly pointed out, to cease with all the dignity that is owed to them. You asked a question and I also ask you: do you know, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, who are the material perpetrators of the 379 unresolved ETA crimes? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, who are the material perpetrators of 40% of the unsolved murders of ETA? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, why there are still attacks on people - civil guards, children of politicians or civilians - who do not think the same as you do in the Basque Country and Navarre? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, why the ETA butchers continue to be honoured? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] CNI's mission is to work to protect Spanish society - that puts it on its website, I'm sure they've read it -, trying to anticipate threats to Spanish society, gathering information and turning it into intelligence. The PNV asks us to amend two laws, Law 11/2002 and Organic Law 2/2002 of 6 May, regulating the prior judicial control of the National Intelligence Centre. On the one hand, what they want is greater judicial control, but they don't want greater judicial control for a reason, but what they want is to bring it to inoperative, so that it's not operational. They want there to be three judges, as the spokesman for Citizens has explained very well before; three judges: one from the PNV, one from the PSOE and one from Podemos. Or not? [[Applauds]] Like the control they want from the judiciary. That is what you would like and therefore not to be operational. Besides, they want to know the means employed. I was surprised that you did not come here to talk about how intelligence services work in other neighbouring nations of ours, as you have done on other occasions, and that you did not make a comparison to see if what is in Spain is more or less. Look, this initiative is from the month of May. One might think that the slow-moving coup d'état being led by the Sánchez government had already been aligned with their wishes since May. How curious that they present it now, when we're watching the assault on the judiciary! I believe that what you are asking is not balanced. It is not balanced in our region and is outside the usual customs and customs in any criminal case, as it has already been exposed and, therefore, I will not stop at it. Then they want political control. They want the president to appoint a secretary of state who is responsible to be able to ask for responsibilities from someone who owes you to be in the government, while the logical thing would be that there were professionals in an agency that is to defend Spain and to defend Spanish society, professionals who were not in the political arena. You want more political control, we want more technicians at the service of Spain. [[Applauds]] Therefore, the initiative presented by his group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, seeks to weaken the National Intelligence Centre and is imbued with partisan and spurious interests. Thus, it seeks to amend article 6.2 of Law 11/2002. This fact is very enlightening, as it contains the same wording that the Government gave to the same paragraph in the second final provision of Royal Decree Law 8/2020 of 17 March, which was declared unconstitutional by Judgment 110/2021 of 13 May of the Constitutional Court. So, it's not that you're worried about justice, it's not that you're worried about the security of Spain; you're worried about what the CNI can investigate, you're worried about them being able to investigate the more than twenty cases of corruption in which the PNV or former PNV agents are involved, which is logical when someone has been ruling for so long. He said someone that power corrupts, but more corrupts absolute power, which is what you have had for many years in the Basque Country. [[Applauds]] That is why we confront them with calmness, with patience and, above all, seeking virtue for these Spanish lands. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Bravo.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u27	Thank you, Mr. González. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u28	Thank you very much, President. Mr Esteban, your parliamentary group is presenting an amendment to the CNI's regulatory laws, Law 11/2002 and that of the previous judicial control of the National Intelligence Centre. The first question to be asked is whether we have come here today to strengthen or further weaken the rule of law. [[Applauds]] I hope to be able to answer that question throughout my speech. The National Intelligence Centre is a public body - which this Government has denounced and supported by you - which must support the President of the Government and the Government with information, analysis, studies and proposals to try to avoid any danger, threat or aggression to the independence or territorial integrity of Spain, to the national interests and to the stability of the rule of law and its institutions. You are spokesman for the party that organized and perpetrated a motion of censure against the President of the Government of Spain on the basis of a sentence that was proved to be false. Are you going to talk here about strengthening the stability of the rule of law today? In your explanatory statement, Mr Esteban, you say that you want to deepen the political and judicial control of the National Intelligence Centre. We add that last May Mr Esteban told the President of the Government that he should not use secret services for his own interests. Well, we agree or we might agree, but we're not here for that. What your group seeks with this proposal is that those who have already attacked the integrity of our nation, that those who have already attacked the constitutional order - and who, by the way, reiterate that they would do so again - have the possibility to veto the operations of the National Intelligence Centre aimed at protecting the unity of Spain and legality, including by providing information on the means used by the State to protect our democracy and national integrity to those who every day fight to destroy it. This is because your proposal for a law, Mr Esteban - Article 1, paragraph 1 - says that, on the proposal of the President of the Government, the secondment of the National Intelligence Centre, from the Ministry of Defence to others is changed, something that seems harmless, right? But what if this fell on Irene Montero or had fallen on Pablo Iglesias? Oh, no, wait, it fell into the hands of Pablo Iglesias. It was you and this government that brought Pablo Iglesias to the Delegated Commission for Intelligence Affairs in 2020, using a royal decree of urgent measures to combat the coronavirus. An appointment, by the way, which was annulled by the Constitutional Court, as you know, and which you recover from this text. Precisely: they don't recover, they say it textually. In fact, the second final provision of Royal Decree Law 8/2020 is identical to that contained in Article 1(7) of your proposal, Mr Esteban. Is this the way to return the favor to Mr Sánchez for having transferred to the Basque Country the powers of prisons that allowed them to multiply by six the third grades to ages? [[Applauds]] On the other hand, Mr Esteban, as far as judicial control of the National Intelligence Centre is concerned, from one to three Supreme Justices appointed by the General Council of the Judiciary are responsible for this function and also require unanimity. You say, you decide. No, no, if we've already decided: one. You, three and unanimously. Let's link up with news that has emerged recently, from these droplets that let the PNV fall from time to time: Sánchez will agree with the separatists the law that subject the judiciary to political power - today we are living here -. The Government intends to hand over to Esquerra Republicana a post on the General Council of the Judiciary. I mean, what we want is to try to block the investigations the CNI does at the expense of also influencing the judiciary, as they have dropped all this time? Finally, it will allow me, Mr Esteban, to stress that your proposal modifies the information that can be accessed by members of the Committee on Official Secrets. So far, the members of that commission had no knowledge of the media; neither of the media nor of the sources used by the National Intelligence Centre; something that I believe is timely, in view of the events we suffered in 2017. With his proposal, you will be able to know the means used by the CNI to defend the Spanish integrity and our country from those who want - precisely some of those who have applauded his initiative - to subvert and violate the constitutional order. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that Bildu, Junts and the UPC belong to this Committee of Official Secrets, through the work and grace of the Presidency of this Parliament; those who, as you all know, want to guarantee the institutional stability and order and unity of the Spanish nation. I have a doubt, Mr Esteban: do you really, I insist, seek to strengthen the rule of law? Or what they seek is to reinforce those who, in 2017, attacked this rule of law and the constitutional order? I say to you that the answer is the second of the questions. Look, after carefully studying your proposal for a law, I have no doubt that your proposal is another step of the Government, together with your partners, with you, to continue to attack, as you have done throughout the mandate, the prestige of the institutions. They have already done it with Spanish Television, they have done it with the CIS, they have done it with the Attorney General's Office, with the Attorney General's Office, with the General Council of the Judiciary and now with the National Intelligence Centre. Assault that began with the cessation of Peace Stephen that - I will agree with you - the Minister of Defense had to have explained much more, because she was an honest official who fulfilled her constitutional duty to defend the unity of the Spanish nation and this Government ceased it in an indecent manner and without due explanation. [[Applauds]] A government, by the way, that has lowered the penalties for sedition and that intends to reduce the penalties for embezzlement to the extent of those who in 2017 wanted to strike against the legality in force in Catalonia and who also used the public money of all Andalusians, which should be destined for the unemployed, to remain in power. And I say to the extent that with these changes, more pardons contrary to the criterion given by the Supreme, Oriol Junqueras - I guess this is what they want - could again be a candidate in the year 2023. They therefore intend to change the Law of the General Council of the Judiciary to control this body and the Constitutional Court. In conclusion, we are not going to be complicit in this attack on our democracy and will therefore vote, point by point, whatever is needed against this proposal by the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u29	Thank you very much, Mr González. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u30	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Terol, if your sources are the media, and we're talking about the CNI, poor people are the secrets of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Nationalist Party brings us an initiative with few changes to one that it has already submitted and withdrawn in May this year which, according to its explanatory statement, aims to update the regulatory framework of the National Intelligence Centre contained in two laws - on the one hand, Law 11/2002, which regulates the CNI and, on the other, Organic Law 2/2002, which regulates the prior judicial control of the National Intelligence Centre; laws whose adoption, as has been said, is now twenty years old - focusing on its continuing need for modification and updating, given the serious events that have occurred with the Pegasus spyware. We agree. It is a necessity that manifests itself and must be curtailed. So much so that it should be remembered that during the appearance at this headquarters on 26 May, as has been said here, the President of the Government expressed his intention to amend the Law of Official Secrets, dating from the time of Francoism, and the Organic Law Regulating the Prior Judicial Control of the CNI. The Government is already working on this, as evidenced by the fact that the Council of Ministers first adopted the preliminary draft law on classified information. The same applies to the line of work of the CNI Judicial Control Act. Therefore, what is desirable, Mr Esteban, is a text emanating from the executive branch, that it be a text formed by the competent bodies and then debated in this House, where your ladies and gentlemen could enrich it with such amendments as they deem appropriate. In this way, the text would have greater guarantees of technical rigour and the provision of greater experience from different sectors, in such a way that we could avoid circumstances such as that in the explanatory statement of a proposal for a law that precisely wants to regulate the judicial control of the centre in its third paragraph it does not seem that this control is carried out because it is the centre itself that has spied on the president or that there is no talk, for example, that in order to avoid the espionage suffered by the president and other members of the Government there is a need for measures to control and strengthen counter-intelligence activities - this, of course, is remediable by amendments - or that there are discrepancies in relation to the modifications that are intended to be addressed. We must stress that we are talking about issues that currently affect the scope of the Ministry of Defence and the person in charge of this department. The text of this proposed bill, which can be amended, in its article 1, reads: "The centre is initially attached to the Ministry of Defence, without prejudice to the authorization of the President of the Government, contained in the third additional provision to modify, by royal decree, the organic subscription of the centre. Well, the said additional provision and article 7.1 of the law to which this provision refers, however, do not undergo any modification, closing a conceptual circle which makes it considered, by virtue of the foregoing precepts, that the term initially proposed and introduced in paragraph 10 of the statement of grounds of law, in addition to being confusing, may be unnecessary. But this is also remediable by means of amendments. Article 7.1 itself states that the centre is attached organically to the Ministry of Defence. In the same vein, article 1.4 of Royal Decree 372/2020, which develops the basic organizational structure of the Ministry of Defence, states that the National Intelligence Centre is attached to the Ministry of Defence, with direct dependence on the person in charge of the department, and no changes are proposed. Notwithstanding the above, this bill amends the procedure, as mentioned here, for the appointment of senior CNI officials, and amends it in such a way that the proposal for their appointment is carried out in both cases by the President of the Government. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are presidents who directly appoint these positions. However, in Spain, if we take into account that the main competence conferred on the Minister of Defence by the CNI regulatory law is to propose to persons to be appointed by a royal decree to hold the above-mentioned high offices, to deprive the head of the department of the said competence would de facto imply the organic attachment of the CNI to the Ministry of Defence which establishes the very law that you present and, in line with it, the royal decree would be partially devoid of content. It could also be reviewed and could also be amended. With regard to the amendment to the eleventh paragraph of the explanatory memorandum, it stipulated that intelligence objectives should be approved by the Council of Ministers. This is not the case anywhere and, in principle, in intelligence services should not be the case, since it is the National Intelligence Centre that receives these objectives directly from the President and not in an assembly form in the Council of Ministers, with all respect for the Council of Ministers. The directives are given exclusively by the President, and more so by the President, who deals with secrets. There is no directive issued or given by the Council of Ministers. If we also focus on the amendments to the delegated committee that they intend to make, I would like to say that they have forgotten to mention the director of the Department of National Security, who is not a member, but must attend in line with what has been adopted in the National Security Act. The proposal establishes a control exercised by three judges - we can agree - who will approve the issues by consensus - we can agree - and in less than seventy-two hours - we can agree -. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have been in the area of operations and sometimes in a few hours the answers are needed, and no urgent means of dealing with these circumstances are articulated, which is also remediable. And last but not least, there is parliamentary control; that is where we have caught them. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that most of you do not even know what the Commission is called. It is not a commission of inquiry, it is not a commission of intelligence, it is not the Commission of Official Secrets, it is the Commission of Control of Credits for Reserved Expenditures. Therefore, one cannot talk about secrets in them. Mr. Aitor Esteban, how long has it taken for the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party since the DSN gave them access to classified documentation in divulging the media, and in a distorted way? How long did it take? Not even twenty-four hours. How long did the documents and information shown by the Secretariat of State in the Committee on Reserved Expenses take to be transmitted and transferred to the media? And you want me to get to know you? I'm finishing up. We must emphasize that it would be essential that any legislative change that thrives in this area should respect and ensure adequate protection of the means, sources and procedures of the CNI, since they are the basic pillars for the survival of an intelligence service and for them to comply with...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u31	Mrs. Cantera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u32	Yeah, I'm finishing up. ... effectively and satisfactorily its mission for the benefit of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is remediable; now they go and tell, but don't say it's a secret. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Cantera.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u34	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the No Law Proposition of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on universal accessibility in natural spaces. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs. Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u35	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. There are people who, despite the physical and mental barriers that society has been building, struggle and work to break them down and to conquer spaces of citizenship and opportunities based on effort and solidarity every day. Our responsibility is to stand by their aspirations and move towards a society without the barriers of discrimination, to move forward together and together with initiatives, political action and facts. Ladies and gentlemen, today I rise to this attrition to make them complicit in this challenge, to unite efforts and to fulfil the commitments we have made to a part of society that has been waiting too long. The non-legislative proposal that my group, the Socialist Group, is bringing to this House today transcends the political differences that we may have. It is a proposal that we trust will have the support of most of you. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, aims to contribute to a further step in the effective exercise of human rights and aims to complement the efforts already being made by autonomous communities, local authorities and the third sector to bring persons with disabilities closer to the natural environment. This proposal aims to extend the conditions of design and universal accessibility to certain specific environments: the natural spaces, whether protected or not, of our country. It is about fulfilling the commitments we have made, with the mandate of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, of the United Nations, and fulfilling human rights, because disability, ladies and gentlemen, is a human rights issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has made significant progress in public disability policies, such as the drive to the Spanish Centre for Cognitive Accessibility and also the new Sports Act, among other issues, but there are still outstanding issues. The amendment of Article 49 of our Constitution is crucial, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is up to you, once again, to reform this article. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they are once again blocking social progress in this country. I see that there are not many of your ladies seated in your seats, but I am referring to them. It is a reform, that of article 49, that has been participated by the group of persons with disabilities, represented by CERMI, that have changed the aspects that they have considered fundamental. We need to amend this article, despite this so-called recurring attitude, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to say that not everything that implies a social advance in this country, because its not, ladies and gentlemen, means a no to the aspirations of persons with disabilities, a no to the families of persons with disabilities. [[applause]] Your no, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is exclusionary. It is a no to equal opportunities, it is a no to the whole of our society, which aspires to be a better society. In preparing this speech I read a sentence that, in relation to what I have just commented, seems to me very timely on the website of an association, Montes Solidarios, of Álava, which does a commendable job. The phrase says as follows: The most immutable barrier of nature is that between the thought of one man and that of another. Nature, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen and admired, but it can also smell and be touched, you can perceive, you can hear, you can taste and you can feel. Everything is allowed, everything is possible. Nature gives us everything in exchange for nothing, nature takes care of us in exchange for nothing, and natural spaces give us the privilege of connecting with nature, as well as caring for and improving our physical, mental and social health. Natural spaces are essential for the conservation of biodiversity, for social relations, for social cohesion. They are spaces of encounter between different generations, which allow to recover the culture and local traditions. Natural spaces must be the centre of a new model of development of our peoples, they are fundamental to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, both the more environmental, economic and social objectives, and the goal of development number three, the improvement of health and human well-being. They are also fundamental in the fight against climate change. But there are many barriers that limit the participation of persons with disabilities in these natural spaces. Buildings, constructions, transportation or difficulty in accessing information make planning for a leisure time in nature more complicated. The characteristics of the topography and the precautions to be taken in order, of course, to avoid ecological and flora and fauna deterioration should not prevent the necessary action being taken. And we must not understand that universal accessibility is intended only for persons with disabilities. Older people, boys and girls, baby carts, people with any injury at any given time will be benefited by these performances. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting this non-legislative proposal to fulfil our commitments and move towards a more just society. The Convention on the Human Rights of Persons with the United Nations mandates States to ensure that persons with disabilities have access to recreational and tourist facilities so that they can participate on equal terms. Also our Constitution our Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity speaks to us in its article 4 of the close link between the natural heritage, health and well-being of all people. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain was a pioneer in Europe in the protection of nature with the adoption in 1916 of the first National Parks Act. A century later, we continue to maintain this approach reflected in our legislation, but the socialists - committed, committed to the progress and well-being of people - think that we must continue to make progress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u36	Mrs. Well, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u37	I'm done, President. Because progress in the rights of persons with disabilities benefits society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Well. In defence of the amendments made by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Unless its content is changed, the adoption of this non-law proposal will not lead to significant improvements in the current accessibility policy that applies in the natural spaces of Spain. Moreover, it is disappointing that, since this initiative was registered in February, no progress has been made to date in a matter that needs to be constantly updated, beyond the reasonable political impetus of the Chambers to take effect. I am sorry to see that this socialist initiative, as it is written, is one of consumption quotas, because it has a lot of cosmetics and very little practice. In fact, the proposed law amending the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion to establish and regulate cognitive accessibility, their conditions of demand and application was being processed in parallel with their registration in the General Courts. Following these changes made in March this year, there is not a single reference to the accessibility of natural spaces; therefore, it would be useful for all administrations, starting with the state, to work towards correcting this deficiency, a question that would be extremely useful for the whole population and to be a more and more inclusive society, which is what it is all about. Also, speaking of accessibility of natural spaces, I believe that the socialist initiative on the shore, once again, that in much of these places the administrations are a machine of putting limitations and glues to the maintenance of socio-economic activity, I no longer say to development - which also - I mean the maintenance of socio-economic activity. And proof of this is that depopulation is one of the characteristics that is also observed in a gradual abandonment of the territories and, therefore, of the objectives of sustainability of tourism and nature, whose managers are seen and desired to deploy their capacity for entrepreneurship, promote job creation and - speaking of accessibility - extend the catalogue of activities to tourism, leisure and the enjoyment of nature and the environment by people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary initiative defended by Mrs Bueno Campanario has four points which, as I pointed out earlier, have a large cosmetic component. Hence my amendment, which calls on the Government to speed up, adopt and present the II National Universal Accessibility Plan, which updated the plan in force since 2004, which expired in 2012 - i.e. a decade ago - by incorporating measures that encourage the removal of obstacles, barriers and limitations in the access of persons with disabilities to protected natural spaces. On the other hand, the explanatory statement mentions the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but it is that this initiative is confined to natural areas when it is archi-bedded that it is, above all, in urban areas where there is a great deal of work to move forward urgently with specific measures to ensure equality of opportunity, non-discrimination and universal accessibility. Having completed three years of government, to promote that Minister Belarus and team explain the result of their management, both to account for the advances in universal accessibility throughout the current XIV Legislature, and for the deadlines for the transposition of the European Directive on Requirements and Accessibility of Products and Services, of 17 April 2019, called the European Accessibility Law. Finally, speaking of disabilities and social rights, I would like to take this opportunity to join once again in the crusade of the deputy Sara Giménez, of Citizens, and again to denounce that in the Congress of Deputies the processing of an important law unanimously taken into consideration here in plenary on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis remains unexplained. Thousands and thousands of patients and their families celebrated last March that great step in favor of the patients of ALS, but if there is no progress in the procedures to discuss and pass the law, there is a risk that it will fall with the end of the legislature, which would be a huge frustration for all affected, their families and their caregivers. I'm very afraid that's what the government is trying to do. I wish I was wrong. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u41	Thank you, Madam President. We are very interested in everything that relates to nature conservation and, indeed, to the right of the disabled to enjoy nature. You progressives believe you have the monopoly of love for nature, the monopoly of ecological concern, but remember where the word ecology comes from: it comes from oikos, which in Greek means home. That's something he always liked to remind conservative philosopher Roger Scruton. He maintained that the basic attitude of the conservative was precisely ecology, that is, love of the home. The basic attitude of the conservative is gratitude, gratitude to all that our ancestors have bequeathed to us, and what the ancestors have bequeathed to us includes not only a way of life, not only moral norms, institutions, but also natural places, and there is no contradiction in that. [[applause]] We have also received natural sites from the ancestors, mountains, rivers and forests. In the Anthropocene there is no more virgin nature in the strict sense: every landscape is a human landscape, even if it is only to the extent that man has deliberately decided to respect it. The basic attitude of progressives, on the other hand, is contempt for the past. You progressives see the past as a long night of machism, class domination, racism, homophobia. The problem of progressiveism is that, as always the past was worse than the present, they are condemned to be despised by the progressives of the future. [[Applauds]] This was said very well by Gómez Dávila, who wrote: progressiveism ages badly. Each generation brings a new model of progressiveism that defies the previous one. There is one aspect of this GNP that does not convince us, and that is that it is drafted in such a way that it seems to attribute to NGOs or the Biodiversity Foundation - or not well defined entities - the power to declare visitors, outside beautiful places that may be privately owned. In this way, the alleged right to universal accessibility can become an alibi for the emptying of private property, de facto expropriation. In fact, the Anglo-Saxon world is already talking about the right to roaming, that is, the right to wander around the neighbor's estate on the pretext that it is beautiful and that beauty is of everyone. But above all there is one aspect of this GNP which is particularly incongruent to us, as in general all that you do about the rights of the disabled, and that is that you are concerned about the right of the disabled to access national parks, but not the right of the disabled to life, to access life, because if the disabled are not allowed to be born, how can they go to national parks? [[applause]] And remember that there are forms of disability with a genetic basis that are disappearing in Spain, but not because they no longer give, but because those who suffer from it are exterminated in the womb. It is estimated that between 90 and 95 % of Down syndrome fetuses, for example, are aborted in Spain at present. There is one European country that has already reached 100 per cent. In Iceland, children with Down syndrome are no longer born, and all are destroyed in the womb. Of course, Icelandic society would have made Rosenberg, Himmler and the other Nazi hierarchs pale with envy. Because the Nazis sought a society without disabilities, a society formed only by healthy individuals; what happens is that they practiced postnatal eugenics and in very civilized and progressive Europe we are practicing prenatal eugenics. [[Applauds]] You are progressive, you are considered the champions of equality and inclusiveness. Well, this selective extermination of the disabled in the mother's womb is being facilitated by a eugenic law, such as the current abortion law, which provides for a longer special period of no less than twenty-two weeks for fetuses suffering from some malformation, i.e. some disability. Needless to say, at twenty-two weeks a fetus sucks its finger, a fetus can yawn, can play with the umbilical cord and, of course, can feel pain. PNL - it has already finished - talks about the need to speak with the leaders of disability associations. Well, talk, for example...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u42	Mr. Contreras, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u43	... with Mr Matía, the President of Down Spain, who will explain how Down syndrome is disappearing in Spain, or with Professor Villaroig, who wrote in an interview that people with Down syndrome enjoy great protection after birth, but before birth almost no one supports them. We do support them because we defend the right to life of all, including the disabled...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Contreras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u45	...from conception to natural death. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u46	Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u47	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal on accessibility in natural spaces, a proposal that we already advance and support, as well as all initiatives that seek to improve the rights and lives of persons with disabilities. Persons with disabilities have fundamental rights, as do other citizens. In order to achieve this goal, all communities must celebrate diversity within themselves and ensure that persons with disabilities can enjoy the various kinds of human rights: civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights recognized by the various international conventions, the Treaty on European Union and national constitutions. Persons with disabilities have on numerous occasions called for equal opportunities and access to social resources, such as work, sport and leisure activities. We cannot continue to advance as a society if in certain activities we exclude or set aside a number of persons with disabilities. Therefore, the enjoyment of natural spaces in this autonomous way by persons with disabilities should be a desirable goal and shared by all. Protected natural spaces are a valuable contribution to the conservation of nature, in a reciprocal commitment between society and the State to make these territories places that from their conservation can enjoy future generations and be at the service of all. Although up to a few years ago natural spaces were conceived as inaccessible sites by nature, far from falling into resignation they have become privileged destinations where accessibility is a more quality factor that attracts visitors. We share, as I say, the spirit of this proposal and its measures for further progress in the universal accessibility of natural spaces, although it is true that our legislation already broadly recognises this situation, as reflected in the explanatory memorandum of this proposal. Our Constitution already contains equality before the law in article 14 without any possibility of discrimination. The Constitution also contains article 9.2 of this fundamental law, whereby it is up to the public authorities to ensure and remove obstacles to real or effective equality. Also in article 10 of our Constitution we have recognized the right to the dignity of the person as the foundation of the political and social order. Speaking of the rights of persons with disabilities, I think it is important that we insist on the need to amend article 49 of the Constitution, since it still mentions persons with disabilities as diminished. I believe that we must work constantly to amend this article of our Constitution. And as we speak of article 14, article 9.2 and article 10, of the dignity of the person, collecting the glove and thanking Mr.Oblanca, there are people in Spain who, because of their illness, like the sick of ALS - I always say in each of our plenarys - are still not achieving the accesses that are needed for a dignified life, while in this House, in this Congress, the law of ALS has been paralyzed. It is not acceptable to continue to paralyze the law of ALS. We are talking about disability, accessibility, improvement in the exercise of people's rights and it turns out that for those who are facing a serious illness, having a law presented and unanimously accepted by this House, the only thing that is done is to have it paralyzed. So, what do I tell you again, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE? What do I tell you again, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos? I tell you again that please unlock the law of the ELA; that is what you will listen to me in each of the speeches you make in that House. Because of course we agree to move forward on accessibility, of course we will support it; in fact, it was Citizens who managed to pass, equally unanimously, recently the law of cognitive accessibility, which we believe is also an advance, but what we want is to receive reciprocity on their part in the commitment to the people living this serious disease. We believe that it is important to move forward in accessibility and that is why we are going to support this initiative, but I will use - I say again - each of my interventions in this forum to fight for the sick of the ALS, to ask that, please, they unlock the law of the ALS. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u49	Thank you, President. Good evening. All of us are different; all of us are functionally diverse, but equal in rights. The aspiration of an inclusive society has presided over the struggle of the people of the world of disability, functional diversity, and their demand is to be able to be present and participate in all physical and social spheres, in all environments, and this is a human right. We might think that this is a principle socially shared and assumed by the whole society and the leaders, but there are many years of non-application of laws, of theoretically inclusive discourses, but they are not accompanied by actions or resources necessary to make inclusion a reality. It's a very common empty speech on the right. We were able to verify this when the education law, the LOMLOU, was discussed, where they attacked the pre-eminence that this law gives to educational inclusion, manipulating families with a bubble, saying that they were going to close the special education centers and generating suffering with it. Also in the governments of the People's Party, such as that of Rajoy or where the right now governs, budgets and resources are reduced and cut to promote inclusion, attention to dependence, independent life or universal accessibility. The inconsistency between discourse and reality is very widespread. Without going further, this Chamber has very serious accessibility problems and there are resistances to removing these barriers. There are many barriers to accessibility in urban environments and in natural spaces. People with reduced mobility are often unable to access information if they have sensory or cognitive difficulties. The right of access to these environments is also universal and needs to be planned from the outset in the light of the functional diversity that exists throughout the population. This GNP is intended to ensure that any action or programme carried out in the natural spaces takes into account the principle of universal design and that this demand guides the II National Accessibility Plan, currently under way. We certainly agree. This coalition government, and of course the Ministry of Social Rights, has taken these issues very seriously. Not only have we brought forward laws such as cognitive accessibility, but we are committed to ensuring that existing laws on accessibility are complied with and resources are dedicated to them. The Spanish Disability Strategy 2022-2030 has been approved, with funding - now yes - of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to break down all kinds of barriers: architectural, social, labor or normative, and with significant impact on the rural, small municipalities and the countryside; the Cognitive Accessibility Centre has been launched; resources -170 million euros from the Next Generation funds - are allocated to the Spanish Accessible Country programme and the I National Health Plan for persons with disabilities, which has been endowed with 144 million euros, and this includes public health promotion policies for all people and also for the enjoyment of natural environments. In short, this GNP proposes - and we agree - to continue with this commitment, which already exists in this government, a commitment to invest in equity and justice. For this purpose, an effective and honest administration of public funds is useful; for this, yes, a just and progressive fiscal policy, which we attach great importance and for which we work, so that we can pay more who has the most and promote public policies in order to move forward and make a socially inclusive, fully inclusive society real. This is the country we want and for which we work, and in this they have the commitment of Unidad Podemos. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Saavedra. Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to show the People's Parliamentary Group's strong commitment to policies aimed at promoting the rights of persons with disabilities, rights aligned with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we have always supported in this Parliament, by putting forward initiatives to articulate their protection in an integral way and to ensure their equal participation in civil, political, economic, social, cultural and, like the subject before us, also environmental, by building a true welfare society. In recent years, much progress has been made in changing the legal paradigm with regard to persons with disabilities, and the People's Party has worked intensively on the parliamentary handling of the latest adopted regulations, such as the law reforming civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities in exercising their legal capacity or the law on the rights of persons with disabilities and their social inclusion. In addition, we are proactively participating in the initiatives currently under way, but we are not only joining the debate, but also in recent times the People's Party, through dialogue with disability entities and organizations, has introduced initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life of persons with disabilities in our country. Numerous initiatives, including, for example, the non-law proposal to promote and improve the access of persons with disabilities to Spanish universities or the non-law proposal of measures to improve the lives of women with disabilities. The People's Party welcomes the incorporation into the II National Accessibility Plan of actions aimed at promoting accessibility for persons with disabilities in protected areas, as well as the need to review and update the accessibility technical guide in natural areas. And, of course, we also consider it very important that we specifically work in programmes aimed, within our natural heritage, at people with disabilities. But what we ask ourselves in the People's Party is why you are late for almost everything; practically everything, except for what you really care about, and this is what you are late for. This Government is late in policies to promote the accessibility of people in our country, because it is almost four years without making any progress in the Second National Accessibility Plan. However, they are not too late, for example, to attack the Constitution, as is happening in recent weeks and months. Nor are they late to attack freedom and equality in our country, to attack the law that makes us free and equal in our country, and all for keeping you a few more months in the chair, especially Mr. Pedro Sánchez. [[applause]] Nor are they late to save criminals from their sentences for remaining in power, which is why they are in a hurry. Or they're not too late to get the embezzlers to decide who commits embezzlement or not in Spain. And so one attack after another in constitutional and democratic Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today many Spaniards wonder how far you intend to go. They have turned Pedro Sánchez into a semidweller, who in the earthly world comes to be more or less like a dictator or an autocrat. And I ask them: Is it worth it? Is it worth failing the Constitution they promised to protect? Is it worth it to fail the Spaniards and the country that has given them absolutely everything? Is it worth it, Members of the Socialist Party, what is happening in this Parliament in recent weeks? Is it worth it? I do not know whether you are very afraid of Mr Sánchez or not, but what I am telling you is that what should make us think about what is happening in Parliament in recent weeks. [[a lady MP: None!]] You are late with this non-law proposal, and you are late because this non-law proposal speaks of a second accessibility plan in our country that is four years late. By the way, it is the second; the first was approved by the People's Party in 2003. Be in a hurry to solve the problems of the Spaniards, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and do not in general have any more problems for the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u52	Mr Sánchez, I have to tell you that when you address any constitutional body or power of the State, you must do so with due respect, and of course do not insult, out of respect for the office, out of respect for the institutions and out of respect for this democracy. [[Applauds]] Mrs Bueno Campanario, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u53	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u54	All right, in that case, we will vote on your terms. - the Parliamentary Group VOX, for the immediate reprobation and dismissal of the Minister of Equality and the suppression of the Ministry of Equality. [[File number 162/001117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u55	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group for the immediate reprobation and dismissal of the Minister of Equality and the abolition of the Ministry of Equality. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u56	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the policies implemented by a ministry and managed by your minister must be measured not by their propaganda, their intentions, their ideology, but by their results. Therefore, in view of the repeated actions of Mrs Irene Montero, which harm the common good, her demonstrated incompetence, her persistent advocacy of sexual activity by/and among minors, her incisive attacks on the separation of powers and the rule of law and her neglect of the lack of protection of women which implies the legislation promoted by the Ministry of Equality which benefits offenders, the VOX Parliamentary Group proposes before this House the reprobation of the Minister of Equality and urges the President of the Government to cease it and abolish the unnecessary, unjust Ministry of Equality, which implements policies contrary to article 14 of the Constitution and costly in its structure, and to allocate the entire budget to alleviate the social emergency suffered by the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] This initiative is based, precisely, on the damage that the minister, from her position and the useless department she runs, is inflicting on the interests of the Spaniards, a department that, with the excuse of promoting false equality, does precisely promote the pre-eminence of women at the cost of the male and the confrontation between them to grant more rights to one part of society at the expense of curtailing the rights of the other half. All the laws of this ministry and its minister, framed in a sinister ideology, violate fundamental rights, being the most attacked, precisely, that of equality before the law and that of the presumption of innocence of the man, a degenerate ideology that prejudges all men by pointing them as guilty. However, when the courts issue sentences and imprison rapists, corrupt or seditious, the left uses harsh laws that facilitate the liberation of those same rapists or directly pardon the same corrupt or seditious convicted with firm sentences, a total and absolute lack of respect for justice. [[Applauds]] A minister who insults judges and a president of the government who intends to submit to the judiciary, a clear exponent of totalitarianism. Will the minister think that judges like to release sex offenders? A Ministry that promotes policies to confront radical feminism, abandons the real victims, makes invisible the violence committed by women against their children or the psychological abuse suffered by heterosexual Uhmosexual men, as well as by lesbian women, and defends a multiculturalism that translates precisely into an incomprehensible tolerance towards cultures that do not respect women's rights. Since Mrs. Montero is minister, according to official records, more than 150 victims of domestic violence have been killed, including minors at the hands of their mothers or parents, a disastrous result that results in loss of human lives and sometimes deaths in life. Victims of sexual offences, many of them by imported herds, between 2020 and 2021 have been more than 30,000, and since the entry into force in October their law of yes or yes more than half a hundred convicted sexual aggressors have benefited from the reduction of penalties and fourteen of them have been released. Also, the 3200 convictions handed down in 2021 for sexual offences, plus those of previous years, may be appealed to the courts, a very serious issue for the judicial system and indignant for the victims, because pre-law convictions, as you know, can be reviewed and reduced due to the general principle of retroactivity of the most favourable sanctions, as set out in article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution and article 2.2 of the Criminal Code, and judges, subject to the rule of law, will not fail to apply these basic principles because it would mean a retrogression in the field of human rights. [[applause]] And it is that in order to comply with the Constitution, gentlemen of the left, first of all, we must read it, and also know how to interpret it. Let's see if it will turn out that the Spanish Constitution is also macho, like the judges, according to the minister, the minister who wanted to put on a medal with this law as her main asset, regardless of the plethora of reports that advise her that she sent them with: It is that they are machoists. [[applause]] Because for the minister everything that is not to her pleasure, that contradicts her or that bothers her is machoism or violence, an extremely dangerous argument. Socialist gentlemen, in June 2017 you reproached the Minister of Finance Montoro in this House for letting tax criminals go free. Don't you think it's more serious than this law that you're letting sex offenders go free? [[Applauds]] Nor did the minister hear technical advice at the 8-M demonstration days before the pandemic was declared, even knowing the effects, the expansion and the risk of COVID, which caused more than fifty thousand deaths that you did not tell us, because you to some dead dig them up but to others hide them. Another aberrant manifestation that we have heard from the minister's mouth, making almost apologia of pederasty, is this of - abro quotes -: 'All children and 'children' of this country have the right... - suspensive points - to acknowledge that they can love or have sexual relations with whom they please, based - that is - on consent' - closure quotes -.They have also forbidden people to pray on the street and intend to grant more rights to animals than to people But look, paraphrased Podemos, who said in his day 'we must politicize pain, that pain becomes proposals to change reality', for let us make it and change reality, that all that pain that the Ministry of Equality with its minister at the front is causing victims of sexual aggression, to innocent men appointed or to indoctrinate children and deprived of their parents serves to approve this motion, and that the minister ceases in her functions and that her ministry is indeed a reference to the centre. This reprobation is therefore necessary because of the extraordinary gravity of the events reported and the dramatic results of their policies for Spanish society and, above all, for women. I'm on my way. This is what Irene Montero, an executive arm of Sánchez's policies, is doing with Spanish taxes, more than 500 million a year. There is no better service to Spain and democracy than to present this complaint in this Congress of Deputies so that today also the parliamentary groups that passed this law that does or does benefit criminals, and that their voters - who surely defend women - see what the deputies vote for...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u57	Mrs. Cañizares, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u58	... if you vote with discretion - I conclude, Madam President - or by more appreciating party discipline than to the victims. It is another proposal that will help to curb Sánchez's coup. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Giménez Giménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u60	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we can say proudly that we have always demonstrated our commitment to equality, to freedom and to the equality of all people. In fact, that advocacy of equality has been carried in our DNA since the very day this party was born, and we do so in a broad and capitalistic sense, defending equality without exception and in all areas. Our service sheet speaks for us. We have worked to ensure that new measures in favour of equality crystallize in real policies. Here is our commitment to the State Pact against Gender Violence, which we are proud to promote, but also proposals to improve the monitoring of cases of gender violence, initiatives to end once and for all trafficking in women or the regulation of sex work to offer more labour and social protection, among others. We have also worked in the field of combating discrimination, which unfortunately continues to suffer from many collectives, and have advocated projects to narrow the educational gap between boys and girls by promoting technical and technological vocations among them and by encouraging initiatives that highlight the success of women in the STEM field. Our defence of equality is therefore unquestionable. This does not prevent us from maintaining a critical and vigilant attitude with the management of this ministry and in particular with the role adopted by Mrs Montero. And here I want to share a reflection. The VOX Parliamentary Group brings us an initiative that, by reading it, anyone who believes in the defence of the equality of all people, real equality, equal opportunities, is put a knot in the stomach, because, according to the read, you see the possible social regression that we can face in the field of social rights, in the field of the rights of equality of all people. At no time can we remain silent when male-based violence is being called into question because male-based violence exists. Nor can we be without saying anything when we consider that there are groups that are not being discriminated against because they are because there are gypsy people, there are migrants, there are black people, there are people who by any condition are seeing their right to equality violated. Therefore, when you read these kinds of initiatives, it is clear to you what you do not want for a democratic and respectful evolution of your country's fundamental rights. But what I do not want is an ineffective management of equality resources for our country, a management that involves sectarianism. No one should impose what feminism is; no woman should feel rejected at any time, as on more than one occasion has happened, because others point it out because it does not belong to their political formation, because it is not in the umbrella that considers a large part of Podemos for the rest of the women. And when progress is made in the area of equality, when we regulate and do rigorous work to address violence and sexual assault, if we have to make a review, if we have to make a correction, it is done. We do not understand that it is not done, that it is not courageous to do so properly, and that what is done is to blame judges for doing their job of interpreting the rules. What do I want to tell you with this? Not one thing or the other, ladies and gentlemen. I am a strong advocate of equality for all, but inclusive equality, equality with rigour, equality in which sectarianism is not established. What must be answered is not dogmas or sectarianism, as is often done by Podemos, but the real needs of men and women in situations of greater vulnerability, which I must tell you that on more than one occasion they shine for their absence in the priorities of Mrs Montero's ministry. Now, a Ministry of Equality is absolutely necessary. That is why we have tabled an amendment, because we may not agree with Mrs Montero's ineffective management, but what we do believe is that the Ministry of Equality is absolutely necessary, a ministry which, yes, must be managed as effectively as possible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking to support the content of this initiative of the VOX Parliamentary Group which promotes the reprobation of Minister Montero Gil and the suppression of the infamous department of Equality which he has held for almost three years and which, as she rightly defined a tant and accredited feminist, Mrs. Lidia Falcon, is a joke of neighborhood friends who go there to play. A costly joke, that is, since your budget for the next year 2023 will amount to 573 million euros, with which to water chiringuitos, spread fake and provocative advertising campaigns, as well as sow a radical sectarianism that divides and confronts people, which is the last thing that could be expected of a public body. A Ministry of Equality that has unfortunately proved counterproductive and harmful to women because it has legislated with perverse effects, in the case of the law alone, it is, which has already led to a reduction in convictions for more than half a hundred sex offenders. Now, instead of the urgent rectification of the text of the law, the Government engulfs itself in its force, wanting to patch it badly within that disastrous strategy that puts ahead the political survival of Mr Sánchez, scandalously relegating the general interest of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be mentioned that, at the last control session in this House, there was one of the most controversial speeches in this XIV Parliament from the blue bank. Remember that in response to criticism of the Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, Ms. Montero Gil, head of the Equality Department, attributed the opposition to 'promoting the culture of rape'. Similar nonsense was counterbalanced by the Presidency and, in fact, the phrase was removed from the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] Today we can ask the bounty hunters who attack and impute to the political right from the media and from social networks I do not know how many episodes of chrispation in this Chamber they seek throughout these forty-four years of democracy how many times an inadequate expression has been withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions by a member of the Government. There is little precedent in our democracy for a fact like the one that starred in the November 30th plenary session of Minister Montero in her unbridled defense of the law that has benefited rapists and sexual aggressors. Ladies and gentlemen, very prestigious world ranquins, a case of which the University of Georgetown draws up annually on the quality of life for the female population, have gradually delayed Spain since it ruled Pedro Sánchez. We occupy the fifth place with the government of Mariano Rajoy and now we are in the fourteenth place, despite Mrs Montero's blunt bomb and her ministerial cast. In addition, the legislative output of the Equality Department - which retains as an advisor to a firm convicted of crimes of assault, injury and damage against police officers - has been plagued by failures and deep social setbacks. They are already being warned from judicial and legal spheres of unconstitutionality in the new abortion bill promoted by Mrs Montero, to whom, if she continues as a minister, she could demand, in the attention to our diplomatic relations, that in her fusitive messages of political support to Mrs Cristina Kirchner, recently sentenced to six years in prison and disabled by Argentine justice, she should not forget the expropriation episode of 2012 to the company Repsol, with serious prejudice to our national interests. That expropriation decision of the then Argentine president ended up being a ruin for her own country, which is what happens again and again with the references of Podemos and Mrs. Montero in Iberoamerica. By the way, we are also attentive to the development of the recent intervention opened by the Office of the Prosecutor of Ecuador on the business between Rafael Correa, Irene Montero and Podemos for alleged embezzlement of public funds. I conclude, Madam President, by reiterating that the reproof that is being requested, which has been defended by Mrs Cañizares, is more than justified, as well as the request for the disappearance of this disastrous ministry of political quota. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. A preview. We are talking about the legitimacy of this Parliament. Legitimacy is provided by the votes, and the people who voted for me are as legitimate as the people who voted for this part of the House. Therefore, let us respect the citizens' vote; they are all legitimate, twelve million voted for this majority, ten million for this one. [[pointing to the right part of the Chamber]] [[indicating respectively the left and right part of the Chamber]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u66	Don't shut up, keep talking. This initiative, like all those presented by VOX, is bullshit. That is, when you really have to work, which is to make amendments to the general budgets of the State, you don't work, and then every week a mess. Today it is. Let's see, you talk in your chiringuito motifs exhibition. You guys talk about chiringuito?! But if the chiringuito is Abascal! Abascal is the perfect incarnation of the chiringuito: do nothing and also recognize it. I don't know how dare you guys talk about chiringuitos. And then holding that Spanish office of that parasite, which is in glory. Finally, you speak of an unnecessary and costly ministry. Man, you always see the straw in the other's eye, but the beam doesn't see it. They have a vice president of Castile and León without executive functions; he does nothing, he does nothing but say nonsense and provocations. [[Rumors]] And you say it's expensive?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u67	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u68	You spend that vice president's money and then you'll be right to start talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u69	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u70	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to get into the background of this debate today because of the lack of time and because I have the absolute conviction that in these debates, fundamentally, you want to bring confrontation and notoriety here. I'm not going in. One Member always reminded me that when we speak here we do so also and fundamentally - we must not forget it - for the Journal of Sessions, so that it is clear what our position is. I will make clear the position of More Country,Greens-Equo in this debate. To be clear, we say no to the reprobation of the minister, Mrs Irene Montero. We say no to the Minister's ceasing, Mrs. Irene Montero. We say no to the elimination of the Ministry of Equality in our country. And we say no, fundamentally, to the discourse and attitudes that underpin your proposals, for two essential reasons: one, because they are regressive with women's rights, and again and again they bring regressive proposals to this Parliament, and two, because they are negatists of public equality policies and to combat violence and stand against the entire national, European and international legislative framework. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not really necessary to insult to defend positions; it is not necessary. It is not even necessary to label them or define yourselves, it is you, look at them, who are labeled and defined every day with your interventions in this Parliament. It is you who define yourselves. I don't need it. All you have to do is see the Journal of Sessions. Seeing the Journal of Sessions, one necessarily comes to the conclusion that they are the true representatives of the European extreme right in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u72	Thank you. Good afternoon. It's okay what Mrs. Sabanes said to make it appear in the Journal of Sessions. For it to be stated in this Journal of Sessions: the law alone is yes, the law of sexual and reproductive health, the Correspondent Plan, the law trans and equality LGTB, the general budgets of the State with greater gender impact, the Plan ME CARE, the renewal of the pact of State, the recognition of all feminicides, the Road Plan, the strategy to combat macho violence, the accreditation of victims of macho violence, the Plan against the sexual exploitation of minors in coordination with the Ministry of Social Rights, all the measures to respond to the two crises that we have in this legislature, all of which please some lordships or not, are progress, are achievements of the street. I can only say to myself: thank you, Irene Montero, thanks to a Ministry of Equality, live the feminist movement and pull the fight from them. [[Applauds]] We have one thing clear: the old world dies; the old world wants to die by killing, but the old world dies and there is one that is conceptualizing new rights, that is recognizing the citizenship of all people and that is guiding the agenda to achieve social justice for this government, and that is being told by the feminist movement on the street. And only - no longer for the Journal of Sessions, but for the proposing group - two things. You should know that turning a verbal rubble on a paper is not a parliamentary initiative. On the other hand, keep in mind that your great contribution to women's rights is to have a deputy who when we are in the paper - those things that happen behind closed doors, but that it's okay for citizens to know it - tells us things like going to our house to the kitchen or to the courtyard, which also needs to be rubbed. [[Applauds]] So, as you will understand, it would be good for you, for a change, to put yourselves to work, which even motivates you a little. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u74	Thank you, Madam President. I want to begin my intervention by condemning the latest macho murder of a woman in Albacete, victim number 41 this year, 1174 since 2003. It's a tear and you have to end it. And I want to regret that my community, Balears, where specialized courts, police and civilian guards are missing to protect women, where scandals remain, is once again the community with the highest rate of gender-based violence. Today we are preparing to discuss an initiative which, in essence, proposes the rejection and request for resignation of the Minister for Equality, and if today there are those responsible for taking this GNP to plenary, with a statement of reasons that we cannot share, it is the PSOE. A PSOE that allows Mrs Montero to remain seated on the Council of Ministers; a PSOE that is not unable to stand up to a minister who is putting all policies of equality and protection of women into check, but is complicit in this; a PSOE that is responsible for those who do not believe in equality policies and question gender violence today are armed with arguments to call for the abolition of this ministry. Where is the PSOE of the state pact? [[Applauds]] After yesterday's non-discussion of the so-called trans law, it does not exist; in fact, the same feminist movement, through the platform Against the Deleted Women, wrote yesterday: 'Today the PSOE has humiliated the PSOE'. When the legal consequences for women and minors of this new law are known, do not say that they were not warned or that it is the fault of Podemos or the judges, as today. And in another exercise of cynicism and disrespect for the judiciary, the PSOE presents another chapuza in order not to fix the law of yes is yes, and says its spokesman that it is to give a touch not to Mrs Montero, but to the judges. Where's the PSOE? It's his laws, he's his minister, and he's under his responsibility. I said that a few weeks ago, the People's Party does not question those necessary policies for women, but rather questions Mrs Montero. In fact, the People's Party is proud of the legislative progress in the area of equality when there has been a serious and trained leader, either from the People's Party or from the Socialist Party prior to sanchism. It was with the PP Government that the State Pact against Gender Violence, the first order of protection, supplementary pensions, progress in conciliation or the blind curriculum were signed to prevent discrimination, and more policies for equality were still needed. In fact, they are more necessary today than before Mrs Montero arrived, because the gender gap, the wage gap has increased, we have reversed positions in the area of equality and women are worse than before. Without a doubt, there are many reasons to ask for their reprobation, as should all those parties that supported the law of yes yes, as do feminists who on 25 November called for their resignation on the street. There are 55 benefitted sex offenders, 61 years of prison terms, 13 releases. Communities like Madrid, Galicia, Comunidad Valenciana, Cantabria or Baleares with aggressors on the street before time. The Supreme has had no choice but to endorse his sentence reduction. This is the balance of the law of yes, the result of your way of governing, and do you accuse others of representing the culture of rape? I did not accuse them of such a thing, but unfortunately, what has benefited rapists is precisely their law. [[Applauds]] And I wasn't accusing them of such a thing because I'm not going to fall for the mistake that others fell for. I am not going to fall into insults or personal attacks that divert the focus from what is really the reason to support his reprobation and reapply for his resignation: his way of governing. Their incompetence has led to the greatest setback in the protection of women in decades. And, while the minister is working to pursue cartels of private companies, plagiarism advertising campaigns in relation to diversity, defends Monica Oltra or makes deaf ears to a report from the European Union that talks about political obstruction in the case of the Balears child wards. The People's Party is not going to provide them with oxygen balloons, the People's Party is going to support the reprobation and call for Mrs Montero's immediate cessation of respect for all women, for respect for the victims, because this resignation is already late and it is only a matter of responsibility and dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prohens. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u76	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, VOX's intervention here today would have to make you think, and a lot, about the toll that you are willing to pay at all counts against the government; it would have to make you think. And, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you come here today to deny gender-based violence again the same day we know that a new woman has been murdered by gender-based violence in Albacete. You're irresponsible. [[Applauds]] I rise to this rostrum for a very clear purpose, that of defending public policies of equality between women and men. I'm not going to defend the minister or the ministry, I don't think it's necessary. I am going to defend too much the public policies that throughout democracy have driven socialist governments to make our country a better country. We're going to talk to the citizens, which is what we're here for. What are public equality policies? Public equality policies are a psychologist who serves women victims of gender-based violence in a municipal women's information centre in a village. What are public equality policies? Public equality policies are equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity permits to end the practice that we are women and alone who have to take care of boys and girls and to end the excuse of companies that we are not hired because we take care of children. What is public policy on equality? The public policy of equality is that short films be made in schools denouncing gender-based violence; that STEM careers are also for women; and that in the second philosophy of Baccalaureate, Maria Zambrano is studied. All this is public policy of equality. [[Applauds]] And yes, it is also public policy of equality the abortion law of 2010 to end clandestine abortions and so that they can not only abort those who have money to do so, because, yes, the policy of equality between women and men also has class consciousness. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is better today thanks to public policies of equality between women and men. That's unquestionable. That more than 50% of the population we are women have more employment opportunities and better working conditions makes democracy better; that more than 50% of the population we are women can choose our family model, whether we are single or married, whether we have children or not, makes our democracy better. But equality policies not only make our democracy better, they also make our society better. That boys consider girls their equals and denounce gender-based violence is the society we want. That women occupy public spaces and politics is the society we want. That women are willing to go out on the street to say, loud and clear, that we want half of everything, of absolutely everything, is the society we want. Spanish democracy and Spanish society are now better thanks to public policies of equality between women and men. Look, to get here, two protagonists: the first, feminism, and the second, PSOE. [[Applauds]] Feminism, as an illustrated theory, but also as an organized civil movement, has illuminated the path of democracy. Feminism has detected the problems and proposed an agenda. Thanks to feminists democracy is no longer a democracy of men, it is a democracy of values. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second, the PSOE. And I will defend socialist feminism and my comrades the Socialist feminists of the PSOE, because thanks to the feminists of the PSOE we have decriminalization of abortion, contraceptives; parity on the lists; law against gender violence; law on equality; law on abortion; state pact against gender violence; law on dependency; equal and non-transferable permits; equality plans; co-education. [[Applauds]] Because all that was defended by the PSOE feminists today democracy is better and society is better. I'm finishing up. I also defend here a tradition: the tradition of socialist feminists of the PSOE with class consciousness, abolitionists of the rental bellies and abolitionists of prostitution, which, yes, ladies and gentlemen, will be law. I'm on my way, President. My generation companions and I are proudly heirs to the greatest legacy that the PSOE has given democracy, which is undoubtedly to have built public policies of equality between women and men throughout Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs Berja. Mrs Cañizares, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u78	We're working on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u79	All right. They're working on a transactional. Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u80	We then proceed to discuss the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, concerning the energy crisis and the eco-social transition. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u81	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u82	Wait a second, Mr. Botran. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please. [[Pause]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Let's continue with the next initiative, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u83	Thank you, President. The question was debated more than a month ago, on 2 November, for reasons of the parliamentary calendar and, in these weeks, we have now been given some more input into the debate. Mainly, the motion refers to EP26, held last year in Glasgow, and in the middle COP 27 has been held in Egypt, but little has changed. Non-compliance with emission reduction commitments is evident. [[The Lord]] The Global Carbon Project published a few days ago that the historical record of emissions has already been broken; an upward line that is only interrupted in the last decades by crises such as the recent pandemic, but it is, we have already exceeded the emission rates of 2019 and, even, we are at a historical peak. Absolute negligence that does not take into account scientific warnings about the drastic effects of climate change on human societies, on agriculture, on extreme weather phenomena, on people's health, on the habitability of the planet. Only the countries of the global south seem to take the threats of warming seriously. The metaphor of the flood, that is, that the water will arrive before those below, seems to be behind the negligence of the capitalist powers. They contrast the 200 million annually committed by the President of Colombia, Gustavo Petro, for the preservation of the Amazon, with the 30 that President Sánchez announced at COP 27. The Spanish State is already part of a very weak, painful self-requirement, even since it has passed a climate change law that is far below any scientific recommendation. It is mentioned in our motion that the eco-social transition will be a process of historical, civilizing change, which will have to achieve the way in which we understand agriculture, industry, the relationship between the urban and rural worlds and the field of work in general; changes that will undoubtedly involve the reduction of working hours and greater recognition of care and reproductive tasks. But if there are two extremely urgent areas, those are transport and energy generation. We have focused on the points that we are bringing to the vote today. It is not understood that, with a diesel crisis that stalks, it has been chosen to cover the fuel without, at the same time, making an ambitious railway plan that thinks in the future. It is not understood that limits continue to be placed on the self-consumption of renewable energies, or it is understood: by the power of the big electrics. The energy decline is inevitable and what we must worry about is the social dimension of this decline, because there will be a decrease and rationing, but through prices; that is, those who will stop consuming will be the ones who cannot afford it and, therefore, the social and class differences have deepened. Therefore, the motion proposes two basic questions to avoid these differences: the exit from the marginalist system and price control. Jorge Riechmann said in a recent article that despair is a luxury that we cannot afford, but that this slogan only serves if it goes hand in hand with this other: and self-deception, neither. Today self-deception takes several forms. One I have already mentioned and it is the metaphor of the flood, to believe that, because we are at the top, we will be the last to be reached by the consequences of global warming or the energy crisis. Self-deception and cynicism, you might say. Other forms of self-deception are the same as techno optimism, whether Tesla's electric truck, green hydrogen or nuclear fusion, all of which are announced as burning nails to keep growing unlimitedly, ignoring, or the difficulty of its massive deployment, or the low rates of energy return, and generally ignoring the biophysical limits of the planet. The eco-social transition is an urgent matter. We will give hope, but I am afraid that the debate that follows my speech will be a waste of self-deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u84	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u85	Eskerrik asko, president jauna. Get out of the way. The proposer said that the interventions that will follow him will be a retahíla of self-deception. I am going to try to be the exception that confirms, in any case, its rule, because I am going to express our vote in favour of its initiative, and we will support both the concrete measures it proposes and the substance that encourages them to put forward these concrete initiatives. As I say, we agree with the background and the form. We agree with the specific issues raised in relation to the need to amend the Climate Change Act, adopted in this House, in order to overcome this rickets, and insufficient - and it is apparent - a 23% reduction in emissions and to place us at 55%, which should have been included in the law in order to achieve these positive emission reduction effects by 2030. We will also support it because we believe that the commitment of COP 26, that of Glasgow - not even the one that has been held a few days ago in Egypt - already raised a more ambitious emission reduction to achieve the objective of avoiding global warming above 1.5 degrees Celsius. We will also support it because we believe that it is necessary to put an end to the marginalist system of energy prices. We are going to support it because we believe that we need to control the final price of energy and because we need to do something about the electric oligopoly, the big companies that continue to condition our lives in order to keep their scandalous profit margins. And we are also going to do so because putting self-consumption as a necessity is peremptory and, in that sense, it seems reasonable to us to increase the distance for such self-consumption up to 5 kilometres. And if it cost the government so much to move from 500 metres to 2 kilometres, I hope they will be much faster to move from 2 to 5 kilometres in order to achieve this goal. As I say, all the concrete initiatives seem good to us and would be sufficient to show our vote in favour of the motion, but above all, we are going to vote in favour of the debate it raises, because it raises a debate, from our point of view, that is rigorous and that goes beyond the noise that is becoming too recurrent in this House and that prevents us from talking about things that really affect us all. In recent weeks - probably before the start of the legislature, but in recent weeks with greater incidence - we have heard of terms in politics such as apocalypse or the disintegration of Spain. All this was used by the opposition groups, the right-wing groups, to attack or question certain actions to the Government, probably giving us more importance than we have to the left-wing independence forces of this Chamber, because they place us at the epicenter of all decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, none of the initiatives, however important, is the apocalypse or the disintegration of Spain. What can be the disintegration of Spain, what can be the global apocalypse, is precisely not to face climate change, not to face the energy crisis and not to initiate an eco-social transformation, which is ultimately what the text proposes, is what the motion proposes and is why we agree. The greatest civilizational challenge of all time is the one ahead: the accelerated transition from a fossil-based to a renewable-based energy matrix at a time marked by the climate emergency, by the ecological emergency. That is indeed a global challenge that can be, if we do not address it in conditions of sufficiency and will, apocalyptic. That's much more apocalyptic than getting your hands on the head because some groups of young activists decide to do symbolic actions in front of works of art; works of art that probably many people didn't know, but now tear their clothes because they've even been dirty enough. But, as I said, it is now up to us to get fully into this debate, and that debate needs a strategy. We, at Euskal Herria Bildu, have a clear will to define an energy strategy for an eco-social transformation. In fact, we are already on it, in defining this energy strategy for an eco-social transformation in our country, in Euskal Herria, and we believe that what is good for Euskal Herria - we have said this many times - can be good for other nations and for other peoples of Europe or the world. We believe that a strategy such as this one needs to focus both on how and who, where and when the energy transformation takes place. We need to be aware that the necessary changes go beyond energy and cover all disciplines, all aspects of socio-productive activity. The fossil age is coming to an end and, if we do not want to understand it, if we do not want to understand the finite limits of the planet, if we do not want to understand any of that, we will probably close our eyes, but we will not be addressing the great threat before us, because the energy system continues to dominate today with 85% of the fossil energies. We have a high energy vulnerability and we have a great dependence on the outside. It is therefore a huge challenge, but also an opportunity; an opportunity to deepen energy sovereignty, for people to be energetically sovereign, for territorializing our consumption, for us to be able to produce what we need, to produce it ourselves and ourselves, and for the benefits of what we produce to impact and reverse on our territory and on us and others, not on the profit accounts of IBEX 35 companies such as Iberdrola, Energy, Naturgas, EDP or others. We also want to democratize the means of production, because it would not be reasonable for the necessary one, the irreversible transformation that has to lead us to increase the power in renewable energies again to be a business stop, a business area for the companies that have led us to the place where we are. By doing all this, democratizing the means of production, territorializing our consumption and advancing in energy sovereignty, we can thus end the preponderance of fossil fuels, the corporate power of transnational corporations and investment funds, and we can also end the concentration of wealth, which continues to deprive more and more people of welfare on this planet. Because the reality is that what we are living now is a race, as in the Titanic, in which the first and second class of that ship drifting that would be the planet are gathering all that they can with the excuse - with the hope, perhaps, more than the excuse - that they can save themselves from this collapse, and what they are doing is accelerating the conditions of irreversibility and widespread and collective impoverishment for all. It is, therefore, a question of betting on renewables, but on renewables with public control, with democratic control and with control at the service of citizens; of reducing consumption, because we have to decrease as much as we are able to do so, yes, because it is necessary, and it is, as I say - and I conclude - that public control is for the benefit of all so that the new cycle that we can open up is not a cycle in which the usual, the large companies of IBEX35, continue to do business at the expense of our needs, at the expense of our right to have full and dignified lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u86	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u87	Pick it up on. Today we are discussing a motion from the CUP, from which we can share some of its reflections and diagnoses, but we differ as to the proposal of its measures in general. They have brought us to the motion the approach of the 1972 growth limit report, promoted by the Club of Rome, and of the head of the researchers of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, MIT, in which the physical impossibility of infinite material growth on a finite planet is affirmed, and we agree: the transition, as the motion says, cannot suppose to do exactly what industrial civilization does today simply by changing energy sources. Moreover, there are reports that it is impossible to maintain the current level of energy consumption, even with renewable sources, because today, compared to most liquid fuels mostly from fossil fuels for energy and non-energy uses, there are no easy alternatives, for example in transport, which is mainly based on petroleum derivatives. It will therefore be necessary to implement accessible measures to reduce the use of natural resources and emissions, also to reduce inequality, although they may be non-definitive measures, because often, if costs are too high and few improvements will be more difficult to implement. And here we believe that society, citizenship, all of us and all of us also play a very important role, because we must all give up part of that present well-being. Climate change and the energy crisis are forcing us to change our behaviour and consumption patterns and to change the economic model, a reality that we must face. However, we disagree - as I said - with some of the measures or solutions they propose, such as amending the Climate Change Act to increase emission reduction targets. What do you obey? Because the truth is that it will hardly serve to modify the objectives in a paper if we do not have the elements or the capabilities to make them reachable. We will have to take into account the starting situation and the capacity we have, because not by running long we can get there sooner. We could agree with the update of nationally determined contributions so that at least industries have greater climate objectives and therefore more collective ambition and that it should go hand in hand with governments to disseminate existing best practices and that capital should be directed towards investments in low-carbon economies. As for ending the marginalist system, as a premise is fine. We have always advocated a change, because the costs of today's technologies have nothing to do with those that existed when this market was designed. But the truth is that this depends on Europe and is not in our hands. Europe has already opened the door to a change, different governments are pushing it forward and we hope to see that change soon. We do not agree, however, with price control per se. The fact is that we are in an exceptional situation of unusually high energy prices, which indeed requires additional measures to combat energy poverty, which has increased in this exceptional situation. Nor do we agree to increase the share of self-consumption up to 5 kilometres. It has been extended from 500 meters to 2 kilometers and we understand that this is enough, because we must also bear in mind that the shared self-consumption is exempt from the payment of charges and tolls, so the more the distance is widened, the more we will have to pay among all others who do not have self-consumption and we would have to value it. That's right, we advocate a lot more for energy communities for which there is no limit and enjoy many, greater and better benefits. As far as the transfer of rhaelies is concerned, it is a demand that we understand, but we do not share that it should be the subject of a motion, but rather of an understanding and negotiation between the governments involved. That is why we would like you to clarify whether the vote is to be carried out by points. If he then tells us, we will be clear, because perhaps we could vote yes on some points and on others against or abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u88	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u89	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating today is perfectly in line with what could be expected from a proposal from the CUP. It is a deeply populist initiative, which starts from deceptive postulates to give simple solutions to complex problems. So-called solutions that, far from solving anything, bring nothing but new problems. The great examples of this are assumptions such as that nuclear technology is less safe or more deadly than other energy production technologies or that we have to choose between nuclear or renewable technologies. Nothing further from reality. The truth is that we are faced with a situation in which our energy mix, which is eminently renewable, requires a backup energy for the moments of intermittent supply to which, unfortunately, renewable sources are now subject. In the face of this, we had two options: either to use gas as a backup energy, or to use nuclear energy, when the European Commission itself recognised both energies within green taxonomy. Well, the government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos decided to bet on gas instead of on nuclear energy. Why? For pure ideology, for prejudice. And in this it coincides with the ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, because to say - as Mr Sánchez has already done in this very rostrum - that nuclear energy is not safe is to deceive the Spanish directly. The evidence has shown that nuclear energy is, in fact, one of the safest sources of energy that exists. It produces 40 times less fatalities than gas plants and 350 times less than coal plants, being one of the least dangerous energies to human life along with renewables. But you prefer to continue doing demagogy. Other false premises from which the CUP starts are clearly inapplicable models as solutions to everything. It does not propose a public energy company, but states that the solution is to expropriate and nationalize all energy companies. Decrecentism remains the only viable model, which can be true if the scenario being defended is one of expropriation of private companies and systematic negotiation of technologies that support decarbonization, such as nuclear for backup or hydrogen for electrification. But, look, when they talk about ending the marginalist system of energy prices, we liberals don't close to proposing new options, but this must be done with rigour and technical knowledge, not with populism and ideology. Firstly, because such a reform - or, in this case, a break-up, as proposed by the UPC - should be made at Community level; secondly, because there is no mention whatsoever of what alternative they propose to the marginalist system. Nor is there much more in the proposal to control the final price of energy, both electrical and thermal, in order to combat this existing energy poverty. In Citizens we have been demanding for months that the government comply with its obligation to reform the PVPC in order to reduce its exposure to the unstable wholesale market, but it continues to listen deafly and has not yet arrived in this House. Because I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that you have legally committed yourselves, in Royal Decree Law 10/2022, to carrying out this reform before 1 October and we are still waiting. Finally, the nationalist ideological patina of the CUP ladies and gentlemen, who want to impose measures on the energy crisis, as they always do, could not be lacking in this motion. And I am referring to your proposal to promote greater use of railways, but through a transfer of rolling skills to Catalonia and Valencia. The first thing that comes to mind is why only those two autonomous communities and not the rest. We would also like to know what the explanation is for how the use of railways will be boosted by the transfer of these powers. In our view, the way to get that momentum is to demand better infrastructure and services, as our parliamentary group does, which last week, without going any further, proposed to extend, for example, the timetables of proximity and rolling stock. Many students and workers, especially those engaged in hospitality, do not have the possibility to use the nearby trains to return home at the end of their day, being forced in most cases to travel by car. Likewise - and especially on weekends - those who are taking advantage of their leisure time at night are prevented from using public transport, forcing them to depend on the car, just when it is less appropriate. It is essential to strengthen the network of neighbourhoods, both its infrastructure and especially its services, in order to adapt them to the mobility needs of metropolitan areas, but it is not solved by the transfer of competences. And for all these reasons we will vote against this CUP motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u90	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. We share with comrade Botran and the CUP the analysis in relation to the energy and climate crisis and, consequently, also the need to advance in the eco-social transition, which implies - in our opinion - a paradigm shift that is only possible with the questioning of the foundations of a capitalist system that is, today, responsible for the voracious exploitation of both natural resources and the working class and peoples. That is why a national and class perspective is essential in addressing this eco-social transition. In any case, we agree to question the current model of energy generation, including that which this government is pushing for renewables, which really leaves in the hands of companies. It is obvious that it is a nonsense - as the proposer claims - to entrust this process to the companies of the electric oligopoly, which prompts us to consider the peremptory need to place the production of energy under public control. Galicia, as a country, is facing a real offensive of windfall, with more than 300 projects under way, led by companies such as Iberdrola, on the false basis that the energy transition and the current crisis are solved with more facilities, without considering a profound change in the model or stopping at the social, property or environmental impacts that they cause, as long as difficulties remain in self-consumption, the marginalist system is maintained or does not stop at energy prices. That's why this Sunday thousands of people went to the streets in 19 locations in Galicia to shout 'Eolic yes, more not so'. It seems that destroying our natural environment, our primary sector and its way of life in the name of a green future is the last dystopia of this Spanish capitalism we suffer.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u92	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u93	Of course, we agree on the need to move forward in the drive for high-quality public rail transport, in which this Government still has much to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u94	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u95	Thank you very much, President. Mr Botran, we will vote in favour and we will also vote in favour. And it will be very curious to see who votes in favour and who votes against this, because, ultimately, here, as in the Valencian driver, there are reds and blues, and the blues always go for one and almost all the reds always go for the vast majority. Of course we agree to put an end to the marginalist system. It is a system that has been stripping citizens' pockets for years, i.e. the benefits of electric oligopoly companies do not stop growing at the expense of citizens' pockets, and by doing absolutely nothing because, instead of doing the culture of effort, they do the culture of the zanganera: doing nothing and obtaining greater benefits. We also agree to control the price of energy. We have seen the usefulness of controlling the price of energy; when the price of energy has been controlled with the Iberian exception, prices have fallen, and we only have to see daily light prices in Portugal, Spain and the other European countries. Of course we also agree to increase the maximum distance for self-consumption; of course we do. There are many marginal lands next to the cities that would have to be used to put solar plants and not that the big electrics, oligopolies and investment funds tell us where the plants have to go. We must start with the roofs of the buildings, the roofs of the industrial estates and the marginal lands and then, if we need to put solar plants, put them in order, with the consensus of the rural population and not where they say Hydroelectric or the investment fund that touches. Finally, we absolutely agree with the transfer of Closeness. Evidently, the efficiency of a service increases when decisions are made closer to citizens. This is verified in the gypsum autonomous communities, for example, by the fans of the Valencia Football Club, who have a leader in Singapore who is not interested in what happens to Valencia, and so goes to Valencia. [[Laughter]] Therefore, we do want the closeness to be managed from our autonomous community, but we want to have the investments and the budget that the closeness of Madrid have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u96	Thank you. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u97	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by recalling Article 45 of the Constitution, this Constitution in which we respect it in my space, but which certainly needs to be amended in order to be adapted to the times and to be more just socially. Article 45 is the least fulfilled and the most trampled, and it is a beautiful article. I will read you the first two paragraphs: 'Everyone has the right to enjoy an environment suitable for the development of the person, as well as the duty to preserve it. The public authorities shall ensure the rational use of all natural resources in order to protect and improve the quality of life and to defend and restore the environment, on the basis of the necessary collective solidarity.' We are once again discussing one of the central issues on which much of our parliamentary activity should turn, such as the treatment of measures to deal with the climate emergency and, consequently, the energy transformation of our country, because we must insist, right-wing gentlemen, that we do not have planet B. We play the future of our children. A great deal of information has already been presented in this Chamber that the scientific community uses to warn of the danger of the path we are taking and that only those who decline scientific evidence, the valiant of the big speculators and energy companies, are able to deny it. I'd like to reschedule some of these data, in case you can awaken consciousness or get some negationist colored. 74% of Spanish territory is at risk of desertification and 70% of our water demarcations have high levels of stress. This is just a fact, but its consequences are terrible for our territory. We are on our way to becoming the first great desert in Europe. Too often we talk about the effects of climate change as a global thing, and so it is, but probably bringing its consequences closer to the doors of our home can be more effective at raising social awareness, but above all, business. According to the Sustainability Observatory, only 10 companies account for 18% of total national emissions, while the 30 most polluting companies account for 25%. Furthermore, according to Oxfam Intermon data, the richest 10% of the population emits almost 50% of CO2. That also tells us very clearly where we should focus and we are doing so and we will continue to do so in the next parliamentary term. In the Balearic Islands, for example, we know that 80% of our emissions come from energy production and transport. This is why we have created the IBE, our first public energy company that already markets the first kilowatts of green public energy. We are among the top five communities with more charging points for electric vehicles, while still implementing measures to constantly encourage the use of public transport. In addition, we have already promoted an emission reduction horizon of more than 55% by 2030 or the maximum distance increase to access shared self-consumption, because autonomous communities also have to involve themselves. We know how to do this, or at least we know which way we should go to drive transformative policies to address the climate and energy transition challenge. That is why we have supported the budgets for next year, because we know that they are on the right track. The budgets approved last week are the greenest in our country's democratic history. More than 30% of the budget headings envisaged are directly or indirectly designed for a cross-cutting integration of ecology into the functioning of our country, and that is clearly good news. Mr Botran, I am well aware of the importance your group attaches to the climate challenge, and this motion demonstrates this, but, frankly, you cannot understand your vote against the approval of the budgets by aligning with the parties of the right and the extreme right of this House. We all have a political responsibility here, but above all we have a human responsibility and I believe that your group has missed a great opportunity to leave them party programs aside and to support a problem that not only teaches us all, but needs all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u98	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u99	With your permission, Mr. President. The motion they present is based on at least highly questionable assumptions, the anthropocentric origin of climate change. If not, the climate emergency that permeates all its political action, that of progressive consensus, would fall to them like a castle of cards. They call it climate religion, but I see them more as a sect, an inquisitorial sect in which the dissident is socially canceled. They annihilate hope and young activists have appeared who dedicate themselves to cultural alter-terrorism in museums. In order to generate more panic, we are told that this crisis precedes the one caused by the Putin war and that it is of scarcity, that we have already reached the peak of oil production. Geologist Marion King Hubbert predicted it in 1956 for the year 1970; Campbell for the year 2000 and, however, in 2016 it consumed more than twice as much oil as in 2000. Can it not be that the decrease in the discovery of new deposits is due to the lack of prospecting by oil companies, which no longer see these investments profitable in a decarbonized and fanatized world? [[Applauds]] Europe accounts for 10% of global CO2 emissions, of which Spain is only 0.7%, while China alone represents a third and has neither come to COP 27, nor India or Russia. Only Europe substantially lowers its emissions, and the recent climate change law of 2021 seems to them little. Have you asked in the oil complex of Tarragona what consequences their occurrences will have? They threaten us with an apocalyptic future and sell us as progress the renunciation of the private vehicle, when it has been a conquest of freedom for the middle and working class. [[Applauds]] What do Lérida's paychecks think of having to buy an electric tractor within ten years? Do you see it possible? They tell us about a fair transition and the Spaniards do not trust, they know of the false promises in the mining basins and that only the abandonment was left. Of the thermal plants blown by the air suspect that they will run the same fate. The current state of Zorita's nuclear power plant is an example. Before, 600 people worked, today 50, and they're waiting for full dismantling. They have been unable to create new jobs. Their progress is as bleak as the shirts they come to Parliament with. [[Applauds]] They've lost ethics and aesthetics. They want to go further behind the Spain of the 600 and remember: You will have nothing and you will be happy. On the basis of renewables alone, it is impossible to maintain the current level of energy consumption; by collecting a diffuse energy, which is the sun, unpredictable like the wind, the ecological footprint will be much higher. We are not negatists, just agnostics of their climate blind faith and therefore demand prudence and preserve a varied energy mix. A varied mix is to include to a large extent photovoltaic and wind, but respecting the landscape and landscape, and to enhance solar self-consumption and distributed generation. We proposed in the climate change law a land management to place renewables and conserve land use to farmers and livestock farmers and avoid speculation, speculation that the minister recognized on this same stand the day he answered them, as well as recognized the lack of energy storage, so we demand the transformation of dams into pumping reservoirs and that they be a condition in the new leaflets of the concessions that will expire. A varied mix would be not only to conserve nuclear power, but to invest in the future with small modular reactors, which revitalized a Spanish nuclear sector that is still leading the world and will consume irradiated fuel, so it makes no sense to build a deep geological storage, as announced in the seventh waste plan. Rectify and build the ATC, which is optimal in security and have the site and the money collected, million-dollar investments in studies and accesses already made. Thus, the construction of the hot cells that Zorita needs will be saved, first of all, when the reactor safe is dismantled. There is no sense in seven warehouses scattered throughout Spain and less if the power stations are closed. A reasonable mix is not to prohibit prospecting studies and take advantage of Spain's resources of radioactive minerals and hydrocarbons. Thus, the Spanish will have energy at a reasonable price and not the energy poverty with which they seem to have resigned. VOX will work tirelessly to stop Sanchez's blow. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u100	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Gago Bugarín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u101	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I confess that I have tried, as surprising as it may seem, to locate points of encounter with the approaches developed by an anti-system party and an anti-capitalist party such as the CUP, but I must confess that it has proved practically impossible to me, beyond recognizing the aggravating consequences of climate change, the importance of implementing self-consumption and the importance of incorporating rail as a sustainable transport mobility. Because you are talking about the social consequences of the energy crisis, but the measures you have proposed here today, the only thing you do is make it worse. On the one hand, they talk about the need to expand renewable energies, but then come here to criticize the national companies that implement them. [[Mr. Botran Pahissa makes affirmative gestures]] So, we're missing that way and that double measuring rod. I'm going to show you a sample of one of your influences on the implementation of renewable energies: New brake on renewables in Catalonia with the arrival of former CUP MP Mireia Boya to the Generalitat. [[shows a press clipping]] On the other hand, they are also talking about the possibility of boosting wind power in our country, but, however, they are alarmed by the fact that there are not enough minerals to manufacture wind turbines. I think it is good that you know that 40% of electricity is currently being produced in our country, according to data from the Electric Network, with wind power and with wind turbines installed in our country. I guarantee you that there is still much room for national production and manufacture in Spanish wind turbine plants and the ability to deploy on Spanish and also offshore soil of many wind turbines in our territory. They also talk about the interest of solar energy, with which we agree, but then they are against solar gardens. I also have another recent news that reflects its position in Catalonia on solar energy that says: the CUP intensifies its offensive against photovoltaic projects. [[shows a press clipping]] They are also against nuclear energy in the energy mix. And I ask you, Mr Botran, how does the CUP intend to provide electricity to Catalan households? How does the CUP intend to provide electricity to SMEs and Catalan companies this winter? If you do not want solar gardens and if you do not want nuclear energy, can you explain to me how you want to provide electricity to Catalan companies and households? [[Applauds]] In short, Mr Botran, they do not want solar gardens or believe in the strength of wind turbines, demonise renewable energy companies and are against nuclear energy. Your Honor, what is your proposal? He has already said this: nationalizing energy. In other words, let us give you and you the possession and energy mastery of our country, and return to the end of the 18th century, before the Industrial Revolution. [[points out to Mr Botran Pahissa and the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] That is the proposal of the CUP and that is what the party which is also widely supported by minority parties proposes to us. [[Applauds]] In short, Your Honor, I humbly say to you, on behalf of my group, that it is very difficult to support this motion. Moreover, I would almost say that there is no way to take it either from the point of view of energy or from the point of view of social guarantees. It is possible - because today we have already seen that everything is possible - that this Socialist Podemos, with Mr Pedro Iglesias or Mr Pablo Sánchez, as you want to call him, gives them the support of the Government, but I can assure you that we are a state party and that we will never go through what Mr Pedro Iglesias says or what you defend with this motion. Spain needs today more than ever a serious party and a party that develops an intelligent ecological and energy transition. Spain needs a transition that ambitiously defines our commitment to the future and strengthens our solidarity with future generations, but also that does not forget the present ones. [[points to the guest gallery]] The Spaniards don't need speeches that talk about growing up or living worse or going back to isolation, which is what you propose. Nor do they need speeches that talk about technological biases that take us away from the goals, because today we actually emit more CO2 than a year ago, such as Mrs Ribera's speech. In short, Spain needs to grow, but in a more sustainable way, in a way that is reasoned and based on all the available technologies that allow us to travel in a steep and effective way, and not in ideological biases. Therefore, we defend the opportunity offered by the generation of renewable energy in our territory to be more independent from the energy point of view, but we will never defend the postulates of decrease, the postulates of isolation, the postulates of rupture or the postulates of technological or ideological bias. So, we're not going to support her. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u102	Thank you. Mr Viondi has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u103	Very good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Mr. Botran, you have spoken of self-deception. I believe that the principle of self-deception is to believe in the possession of absolute truth and in many of your expressions I have felt that you came to give us all some lessons about climate change that then do not apply where you have responsibilities. I say this because in the Catalan Parliament you support the Government and precisely there you do not address some of the issues that you are raising in your motion. [[Mr. Botran Pahissa makes negative signs]] Yes, we do share some of the things you said. The Socialist Party's coincidences with the UPC are few, but some are important. We share with you that we must act against climate change and we are also fully convinced that the ecological transition must be fair, because if the ecological transition is not fair, it will not be transition. You in your motion have made a mix of unrelated proposals and some of them are even opposed. Some are against the European legislative framework; others are measures that are already being implemented by the Spanish Government, because the climate change law itself, to which you refer a reform, already says in its own text that it is going to adapt in 2023 to those of the Energy and Climate Plan, and, with regard to others that you propose, it is precisely the Spanish Government that has led them within the framework of the European Union, such as what some have already called the Iberian exception, which is implying a reduction in the energy bill to the Spanish, and which others continue to call today the Iberian thyme. [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] It is true that we have led climate change and led it with all the actions we have been carrying out. And it is true, gentlemen of the UPC, that we have discrepancies, and we have many, with you. The first is almost weekly, and in some very important elements during these plenary sessions, which is when the CUP systematically votes with the People's Group and with VOX all these measures that you propose here. You have spoken of the vicinity of Barcelona, of the raffles. Precisely when in the general budgets of the state more investment has been made in Catalonia to improve infrastructure, the Catalan party that has consistently voted against has been its party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, one thing is to say and another is to do. And the debate is interesting. The Socialist Party leads this issue and I say it without shame, with clarity and determination. We have received a poisoned legacy, after seven years of absolute abandonment of state policies in the face of climate change, and in four years we have made real spectacular progress with laws, plans and the PARTE and, above all, we have made them despite the fact that there has been a pandemic in the middle and an energy crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. I know that in this Parliament it is sometimes difficult to recognise what this government is doing and, above all, what the president is doing, but if something has been shown at this time by the president of the government, it is that he has led the energy transition, the changes and the adaptation that Europe has to do at this point, and he has also managed that, despite the pandemic and the energy crisis, Spain is modulating and transforming its economic and social model in order to adapt it to the transition. Look, I'm gonna give you two data. Of the European Union funds received, 40% of the funds applied by the Spanish Government go to the energy transition. It is a decisive step towards this country leading climate change and leading renewable policies in Spain and Europe. And, by the way, today the third vice-president is negotiating in Brussels the marginalist system and defending our position, which some have criticized, and today the whole of Europe almost fully assumes the position of the government. And we do this because we have convictions, because we have management, because we have taken action and because we have objectives. Therefore, we cannot support any of the proposals you make because we are already making them. And I leave a few statements for the end. Mr. Gago, really, I think you're a preacher in the desert. I'll read you a sentence: Climate change favors communism, it's a cyclical phenomenon since the earth exists. The left wants to impose a reform agenda that goes against scientific evidence; everything is a big scam. Isabel Díaz Ayuso, November 10, 2022. [[Applauds]] And I add a very good one, you are a Galician, by Alberto Núñez Feijóo on June 23, 2017: Climate change is indisputable, it is based on scientific evidence. On November 12, 2022, five and a half years later, Alberto Núñez Feijóo said in Madrid: We must stop on the path of the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u104	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u105	Who's in charge of the People's Party? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u106	Thank you. - THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON UPDATING NUCLEAR EMERGENCY PLANS. [[File number 173/000181]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u107	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the updating of nuclear emergency plans. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The Republican Group is bringing to this House today a motion on the updating of nuclear safety plans. Before starting to argue and give the reasons why we believe it is necessary to approve it, I wanted to make a few considerations. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is that this motion does not go to energy and nuclear production. This motion does not go from the useful life of the power stations. This motion is also not about the internal security of nuclear power stations. This motion is against external nuclear safety. I say all this to clarify the terms, because that is essential in order to be able to discuss with total objectivity in the terms we put forward. I say that this is not the case because, for example, we are not going to talk about nuclear safety, since nuclear power plants have already made their upgrades and investments within them. Within the plants are already made the drills and, therefore, within them the work is already done and well done. That is why we are going to focus the debate, as I said, on external nuclear safety. As you well know, Fukushima's tragic accident marked one before and one after in nuclear safety. Indeed, Fukushima's disaster, which took place in March 2011, raised awareness of the need for greater safety of nuclear power plants and, at the same time, the willingness to learn from mistakes made, particularly with regard to emergency plans. During that radioactive accident, the Japanese authorities evacuated and confined a radius of up to 20 kilometres around the plant and not only those who lived ten kilometres away, as our protocols in the Spanish state mark. Therefore, here we propose a modification of zone 2 with the creation of a sub-area, 2A, which covers the municipalities that are between ten and twenty kilometers and providing them with the resources and means necessary to be able to address a supposed nuclear emergency. The Fukushima accident also caused the Council of the European Union to amend Directive 2009/71/Euratom in 2014 by increasing the safety measures and criteria for nuclear installations, a directive to be transposed by the States concerned before 15 August 2017. However, the Spanish State has not fully transposed this directive or incorporated this learning from Fukushima into PLABEN or the PENTA. If someone tells me it is up to date, I would like to see it published in the BOE, because we have no record of it. It is clear that the deficiencies in infrastructure and resources to be able to provide an effective response to a nuclear emergency, specifically in Catalonia in the areas of Ascó and Vandellòs, have been detailed in a report by the Sindico de Greuges, which, inter alia, announced the deficiencies in the facilities of the PENTA Operational Coordination Centre, the CECOP, or major deficiencies in infrastructure that are necessary for the concentration and subsequent evacuation of the population in the event of an emergency. I also like to highlight the deficits in mobile telephony and coverage; we were able to show them directly to the President of the Nuclear Security Council, who visited the nuclear zone in Ascó in June this year. We didn't make them up. Even if someone can present us with a mobile coverage map of one of the operators, the reality is that this map is not correct, because, if we walk through the old town or the scattered massifs where people live, they do not have mobile coverage. Therefore, it is important to put in place mechanisms to remedy these shortcomings, as well as to update the plans that are completely obsolete, with notices that arrived to us by fax or mobile megaphony; so we would have to find out the citizens in a case - hopefully not so - nuclear accident. We therefore put this issue on the table again, as well as the need for simulations with the civilian population. I said at the beginning of my intervention that within nuclear power plants there are already simulations, but we cannot allow external simulations with the civilian population to be partially carried out from the offices or that no general simulations are carried out with the neighbours and neighbours of nuclear zones. We have examples of the need to do these drills. We have examples of good practice, such as the simulation that was carried out more or less a month ago in the chemical zone of Tarragona, in which about 60,000 inhabitants participated and which was a success. Therefore, we don't have to be scared to do a simulation with the civilian population, we don't have to be scared to do so so that people know how they have to react in case of an emergency and we have to put all the tools on the table. In addition, we believe that it is important to do so with a specific body that collaborates with the State and the Generalitat of Catalonia, because in the event of an emergency those who would act would be the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Bombers of the Generalitat and the SEM in the field of health. Therefore, it is very important to be coordinated. If anyone has doubts about the importance of what we have been asking for for more than fifteen years in the Spanish Courts from the Republican Left, it is only necessary for him to speak with the municipalities of the affected areas and with the neighbors and neighbors. I think this is a serious enough issue not to continue postponing it for many more years. We have to approach him. It is a responsibility above all of those who have the powers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u109	Your Honor, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u110	I'm done, President. As I said, in this case, the competence and responsibility for external nuclear safety lies with the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u111	Thank you so much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your group, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u112	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the defence we have been making of nuclear fission energy in Citizens is well known, as it is based on the reliability, sustainability and security of this technology. The three conditions must be met so that nuclear fission can function as a back-up technology for our country as this process of decarbonization of the energy in which we have been immersed for a long time takes place. We have been insisting for months on the need to bet, as other countries in our environment are doing, on nuclear energy. However, we only meet the no of the Government over and over again. Today we are tabling an amendment to this motion to extend the life-span of the Spanish nuclear power plants, and we are doing so on the basis of some fundamental ideas. We must say that nuclear energy is a safe energy. Although this initiative emphasises the issue of safety, we believe - I have already said this in the previous intervention, but I repeat this - that nuclear energy causes, by gigawatts produced, 40 fewer fatalities than gas plants and around 350 fewer deaths than coal plants. In fact, the Fukushima accident showed that the problem of the accident had been too lax a security policy, which does not happen here, because we know that in our country the security systems work, and we can see it when we attend the Nuclear Security Council's presentation. We also believe that nuclear energy is a CO2-free energy and therefore we want to put forward an amendment. If we are talking about security, we must also talk about energy security, and we believe that when we are talking about nuclear energy, we have to get to the bottom of the issue: that the timetable for the closure of nuclear energy should be extended. We also believe that nuclear energy can reduce Spain's energy dependence on the outside. It is very necessary that these decisions be taken in Spain at this time, because, if not, we will be late. Why do we say that? Because what we are doing now is importing gas and, in times of crisis like this, we cannot afford to ignore the fact that nuclear energy remains the support for renewable energy. I have to tell you that this is a motion that we could adopt perfectly, but we cannot but say that there is a substantive issue on which this parliamentary group which is presenting the motion always forgets and which always leaves behind. That is why we have tabled this amendment so that we can do as other countries of the European Union - such as Belgium, France, Finland, Germany, Slovakia or Sweden, and also other countries outside the EU, such as the United Kingdom or Canada, which are betting on nuclear energy. It's safe. Do you have to be more secure? Of course we do, but we understand that we cannot forget the fundamental debate that is the backup energy we need. We would therefore like you to think about supporting this amendment and we will vote in favour of your motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u113	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Senderos Oraá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u114	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a subsequent motion for an inquiry by the Republican Group on the updating of nuclear emergency plans in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the external nuclear emergency plans is to prevent or reduce the adverse effects of radiation on the population and the environment. In our country we have five plans: the External Nuclear Emergency Plan to the Santa María de Garoña de Burgos nuclear power plant - a one-center plan that the bourgeois and alaws know very well and that VOX wants to reopen with the consent and silence of the People's Party -; the External Nuclear Emergency Plan to the nuclear power plants of José Cabrera and Trillo de Guadalajara; the External Nuclear Emergency Plan to the nuclear power plant of Almaraz de Cáceres; the External Nuclear Emergency Plan to the nuclear power plants of Ascó and Vandellòs de Tarragona, and the External Nuclear Emergency Plan to the nuclear power plant of Cofrentes de Valencia. Ladies and gentlemen, these plans establish four emergency situations depending on the severity of the accident and its radiological consequences for the population, based on the standards and criteria established by the Basic Nuclear Emergency Plan. These rules assign responsibilities to public bodies or bodies in the fields of civil protection, public safety, health and radiological protection, among others. I would also like to recall the dates of exercises and simulations that have taken place in all the existing reactors in our country: on 21 April in Almaraz, on 19 May in Garoña, on 30 July in Vandellòs II, on 20 September in Coffres and, without going any further, on 24 November in Ascó. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a proper transposition of the directive and plans that are up-to-date and constantly being reviewed, as is appropriate and as cannot be otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government is clear, we are committed to a just and secure energy transition, with a clear road map: the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, the Long-Term Decarbonisation Strategy, the democratization of energy access through self-consumption and energy communities, the Just Transition Strategy for no one to stay behind and the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. All this - and I say all this - in the face of the obsolete energy stake of the People's Party and of VOX, which is nothing other than to bet on nuclear energy and fracking, as they want to do in Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen on the right, they're worse than the negators. Yours is called retardism and is a more dangerous position than negationism. That position puts our planet, our country and the generations to come in check, so please, I ask you to reconsider. Ladies and gentlemen, nuclear risk management is the exclusive competence of the State, without prejudice to work and collaboration with the autonomous communities, as it cannot be otherwise. As you know, nuclear accidents do not know geographical boundaries between administrations and often their consequences go beyond the very sovereignty of States. That is why, from the Socialist Group, we have tabled the following amendment to complete the amendment of the five existing nuclear plans with a view to finalising the transposition of Directive 2013/59/Euratom. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of ERC, we are in an important framework of cooperation and coordination. We are working to improve the five plans and transpose Directive 2013/59/Euratom before the end of the year. Why? Because it's at stake no more or less than the safety of everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u115	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u116	Thank you, President. To intervene very briefly. We will support the motion, because it involves implementing or transposing Directive 2014/87/Euratom. The truth is that there is a need to update and approve the emergency plans of the power plants, the main objective of which is to prevent or minimize the adverse effects of ionizing radiation on the population and the environment. In addition, we share the need to provide the municipalities of the nuclear zones with optimal communication infrastructures, as well as security measures in the face of a possible emergency. That is why, as I said, we will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u117	Thank you very much. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 19 October 1989, at the Vandellòs I nuclear power plant - the proposer will surely remember - there was a fire that affected the reactor cooling system. The fire spread very quickly through the wiring of the nuclear power plant and put the safety at serious risk, although it was avoided, thanks to a very rapid work by the firefighters, that a fusion of the core was achieved. Although the tragedy did not occur, it is the most serious nuclear accident in Western Europe and was qualified with a level 3 on the international scale. As a result, the Vandellòs I nuclear power plant was shut down and, in addition, had significant consequences for the level of social concern, because when that accident occurred there was no communication abroad. Only people living nearby who saw smoke coming out of the nuclear power plant warned of the risk of what was happening. In fact, the next morning, at the very door of the Vandellòs nuclear power plant there was a concentration of deeply concerned citizens and, logically, within a few days there was a huge demonstration in Barcelona calling for the closure of nuclear power plants. Obviously, talking about these things today does not like it very much, because it goes against the media campaign to promote nuclear energy. However, the proposer is right that, despite having experienced this dramatic situation at the very gates of a nuclear power plant in Catalonia, we have not been doing a large-scale simulation for thirty years. And we are not talking about the internal annual simulations that take place in nuclear power plants, but we are talking about those that affect the population in the adjacent areas to which the proposal refers. I find it particularly serious that these emergency drills have not been carried out in more than thirty years, specifically in thirty-four years. If we all consider that they are necessary, the question we ask ourselves is why they are not being asked. Does doing external emergency simulations affect the feeling of the population living there in a negative way from the point of view of the interests of those who should do so? The problem with not doing drills is that you don't know what's going to happen and so we eliminate the sense of risk in the population. It is something that has never been done and it is difficult to think about mobilizing the population thirty kilometres in the round, how long it will take, what time it will take or whether the roads are prepared to absorb that transit density, or the trains, or the railways. If you don't know this, if you don't take the test one day, you don't even know where the bottlenecks are so you can intervene sooner so that they don't happen in the event of an accident. Therefore, there is no security plan. There may be on paper, but if you don't prove it in practice, there's no security plan. Paper endures everything you want, all emergencies and emergency services, everything you want; but if you don't test it, you don't know if it's going to work the day it has to work. You can't stay 30 years without doing a single drill. This in practice amounts to not having a security plan. Regardless of what everyone thinks of nuclear power plants, I believe that this is absolutely unacceptable and, I would say even more, irresponsible. In conclusion, I think there is a reason behind this lack of simulations, which is not to damage the image of nuclear energy. If it was a clean energy, why do these drills? Obviously, in the campaign to launch the image of the nuclear industry as a clean solution, talking about this and bringing up such a motion is not the most convenient thing for nuclear energy, but it is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. That risk exists and, therefore, we have to deal with it with all its consequences. That means not only the necessary follow-up of nuclear power plants through the Nuclear Security Council, but also being able to assure the neighbouring population that, in the event of such an undesirable accident, the consequences will at least be addressed in their full extent and the population would be prepared to be able to get as out of such a dangerous situation as possible. For this reason, we are going to support the motion tabled by Esquerra Republicana, because, regardless of whether we are in favour, as we have said many times, of the progressive closure of nuclear power...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u119	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u120	... It is essential to ensure the conditions of the population living in the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u121	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u122	They are presenting to this House demands on the security of the outer areas of the nuclear power plants in Tarragona. They request the transposition of Directive 2014/87/Euratom, but it was already transposed in 2018, exactly by Royal Decree 1402/2018 of 23 November. I wasn't going to say it, but since you asked for it and I know the facts, I'm telling you. And it only affects external security in the appropriate coordination with internal security. What remains to be transposed is Directive 2013/59/Euratom, and the Nuclear Security Council and the Ministry of the Interior are working to transpose it. As for the modification of the planning areas they request, these are one of the basic concepts associated with the radiological criteria in the plans, being the Nuclear Security Council the only agency competent for definition and development based on its creation law, without prejudice to the necessary coordination with the Ministry of the Interior in those aspects of civil protection, logistics, communications, etc. We have long and long spoken in the nuclear paper about the necessary independence of the regulator with the unanimous practice of parliamentarians. He comes to talk about nuclear safety for people. We all value it, it's very important, it sounds very good and they think we have to support it. VOX, of course, is in favour of as much safety as possible in all matters relating to power stations and, therefore, we believe that the exclusive competence of the Nuclear Security Council is very good. Nuclear risk management is the exclusive competence of the State at all its stages in the face of a type of risk with an undoubted national nature - it may even be international - and in which it is preferable for response mechanisms to have a single command. For once, and without precedent, we agree with the Minister of the Interior. In addition, you ask for it with that lament of secular abandonment that reminds us so much of 'Spain steals us' that you no longer believe yourselves. He told us about roads without asphalting the last time, forgetting that they are the government in Catalonia and that they have been able to impose on the Spanish government the pardon of the coupts of 27 October 2017, the elimination of the crime of sedition of the Criminal Code and the reduction of the sentence of embezzlement. VOX will work tirelessly to stop Sanchez's blow. [[Applauds]] In the field of energy, Catalonia presents a great distinction with respect to the rest of Spain. The vast majority of all electricity generated in Catalonia is of nuclear origin, 58%, more than half. They'd already like a percentage of that 'indepes'. [[Applauds]] In all of Spain only 21% are of nuclear origin. Does it sound like you've heard VOX talk about energy sovereignty? They influence the government, but this time for good, and make it extend the life of the power plants or they will leave them in the dark. They require a couple of small modular reactor projects for Catalonia to put them at the spearhead of modernity. Do you want more nuclear safety? Straighten up the seventh waste plan and have it build the ATC. The difference in security between the ATIs we have now, which are provisional, and a centralized storage is multiplying security by four. If they continue to support the Government as they have so far, they will end up with closed and demolished power stations and lonely expanses full of rusty cans in the open, waiting for politicians to agree to build deep geological storage. Then it will be too late for Spain and therefore for Catalonia. We'll have lost another train of real progress. On the improvement of infrastructures and the improvement of the mobile telephone network, nothing to object to, but we also ask for the rest of Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u123	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u124	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This motion is being tabled to update the nuclear emergency plans and, Mr de Esquerra, I have serious doubts as to whether what you really care about is the safety of the Spaniards or rather the way you use to achieve other objectives. I am saying this because, although the music of this motion might sound good, the lyrics of your exhibition leave much to be desired. In the opinion of my parliamentary group, citizen security cannot be achieved if we do not also work for the equality of the Spanish in the management of resources, and you, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, do not like that. [[Rumors]] Yes, gentlemen of the Republican Left and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you are complicit in the loss of security and equal management of resources, because you swallow with the repeal of the sedition, you swallow with the reduction of embezzlement and you swallow with the law of yes it is you that liberate criminals. [[Applauds]] And soon he'll swallow, if the Spaniards don't fix it in the ballot box...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u125	Your Honor, one second. Finish the sentence, but I ask you to adapt to the question, please. As you know, we are talking about updating nuclear emergency plans. [[Rumors]] So I ask you, please, to adapt to the question. Don't argue with me and continue, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u126	That is why, as I said, this motion is only an excuse to continue working on your plan to weaken the Spanish state. What you are trying to do in this explanatory statement is to sow fear and doubts on a part of society wanting to convey the feeling that the Spanish nuclear park is insecure. And that doesn't fit reality at all. For example, we are drawn to the minimal interest that you show in the Nuclear Security Council, when you know that it is a recognized body in the world and that it works uniquely and exclusively in the nuclear and radiological security of our country. Mrs Pujol, if you really care about radiological safety, for example, why don't you work on developing the central temporary warehouse of Villar de Cañas? Wouldn't it be much safer to develop the Villar de Cañas ATC which, for example, would allow small irradiated fuel stores to be installed in each of the nuclear power plants, also in Vandellós and Ascó? Doesn't this really concern you? Don't you get your attention? Or is it that your mayor of Flix or the mayors of adjacent municipalities have not yet been informed? You speak of the economic resources of the affected municipalities of the nuclear power plants themselves within a radius of 30 kilometres, where your municipality, Flix, is. If you are really concerned about this, would it not be more appropriate to work and support the expansion of the shutdown schedule for nuclear power plants? He also talks about the reasons for the zero mobile coverage areas and the data that exist in these municipalities in rural Spain. There - I also come from that part of Spain - I have to give you the reason. That's another sign that Sánchez rural Spain doesn't care about anything. [[Applauds]] Because Mr Sánchez is more concerned about getting prisoners out of jail and licensing those who commit crimes than about putting some of the 130 depopulation measures in place. That is the reality of this Government which you support. Finally, Mrs Pujol, do you really think that another body is needed to lead the planning and implementation of the nuclear emergency plan? Do you really think you need another chiringuito? One more? Don't you think few of the 23 ministries, more than 1823 advisors and senior officials that this government has created since June 2018? Really, Mrs. Pujol? Look, all external nuclear emergency plans already have an executive body for these functions, consisting of the State, the Autonomous Communities, the Nuclear Security Council and the municipalities of the planning area. In short, Mrs Pujol, if you really want to work to improve the safety and well-being of citizens, ask for the extension of the useful life of nuclear power stations, help develop the central temporary warehouse of Villar de Cañas and force this government to call general elections, because otherwise, you will also be responsible for the insecurity and social and economic instability that leads to halting progress. Today, a historic fact has occurred when nuclear power is created through fusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Herrero. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, in order for the Minister of Justice to account for the serious consequences of the entry into force of the Organic Law 10/2022 of 6 September of the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom. [[File number 173/000182]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u128	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Minister of Justice will report on the serious consequences of the entry into force of the Organic Law 10/2022 of 6 September on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u129	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On the day and week when the government's abuses of Parliament, the Constitution and the citizens we represent are being beaten, we are no longer surprised at any more. The penultimate leaps into the media following the hasty Justice Commission held at the first hour of the morning, which reports that the Government is taking advantage of the sedition bill to correct the law on its own to reform the Criminal Code on crimes against sexual freedom. Indeed, we have found that something that has nothing to do with the content of this proposal is incorporated into the explanatory statement, even though it is heterogeneous, receiving heterogeneous amendments. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are reforming the Penal Code with changes in the explanatory statement. We reform it without requesting reports from the advisory bodies, without waiting for those reports, avoiding reports through proposals for legislation, through inconsistent amendments. What do we have to see? Do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that I am afraid to ask this question. Any student who applied the degree in law would respond to the value of statements of reasons and would even be extended, happy after he believed he had understood how crimes were criminalized in the Criminal Code and that no reform or recommendation could be made through a paragraph in a statement of reasons. But it's worse. The worst is the clarification of Mr López, spokesman for the Socialist Group, when he explains that this amendment is intended to give attention to judges and that it has been agreed by the Ministers of Justice and Equality. [[The lady]] Who gives a damn, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] Looks like they don't care. This parliamentary group, which I represent, does not care what they are doing. Most of the lawyers in this country - of course, all the serious ones of any political sign - don't care. Nor should the Minister of Justice be equal, both as a minister and as a magistrate. Do we now touch, warn and instruct judges from the explanatory statements? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is better to lose a position than personal and professional dignity, but we see that they are only interested in the power and marketing of crazy reforms against the rule of law in exchange for votes. Judging by the position of the Minister of Justice's profile over these weeks in relation to the consequences of the criminal reform of the yes is yes, it seems that he cares little and that he does not appreciate his trajectory in the fight against gender-based violence. Someone who has defined herself as a judge of the trench, who presumes to be a specialist in violence against women, cannot stand up to the misconception of a wrong law with irreversible consequences and not to the attacks of the Government on its fellow professionals. [[Applauds]] But less can be an active participant in instructing judges by drafting amendments without being a Member and incorporating them in a explanatory statement or in an articulated text. Let us hope that, immediately, he will reject Mr López's statements because of their seriousness, of which, if not, the Minister will have to explain and assume responsibilities. Mrs Llop had a huge opportunity in the questioning of my colleague, Marta Gonzalez, from whom she causes this motion, and she missed it. Mrs Llop, the best milestone you can have in your curriculum is integrity and consistency, bringing to policy knowledge and professional experience. That would make it stick to the ground, defending the victims and rejecting attacks on judges from the Government of which it is a party. Today we know, thanks to the Socialist spokesman, that he agrees to defend a wrong law and to give unconstitutional instructions to the judges. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, no solution has emerged so far from the mouth and department of the Minister of Justice, except the one we have just met and to which I have referred. That is why we must ask, and we do so once again through this motion, that the Government act speedily by correcting its mistakes and stopping the machinery of creating misdemeanours in this indescribable break-up of the Penal Code. [[Applauds]] And we ask speed in the fulfillment of their obligations, because we already see that it is impossible to ask for responsibility; speed that they do practice even parliamentary abuse to defend those who have broken the law by putting them red carpet, but that it has been passive, resistance and look elsewhere to face a rigorous reform of the Criminal Code in the matter of sexual freedom and, in general, by ceasing in the infamous manoeuvring to which the Criminal Code is subjecting with reforms to the letter in favour of certain convicted persons for justice. The first known step taken by the Minister of Justice is the agreement with the Minister of Equality to sponsor such an unusual warning amendment to judges. Bad decision and worse company you have sought, Mrs Llop; sad service with it to the discredit to which Mrs Montero is leading to the very necessary policies of equality. We defend the momentum of good equality policies, those that are not leaving the factory of the still Minister Montero. Today we cannot ignore the gravity of today. Nevertheless, we are persistent in the proposals. They're on our motion. We call for urgent review of the yes law and call for them to work for equality and gender-based violence. We live in black weeks, but we ask them to take care of the victims, to apologize for their mistakes...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u130	Mrs. Moro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u131	...that they rectify and that they work to offer effective instruments to curb the outburst of violence against women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Moro. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u133	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, calm and prudence. This is what we have been asked by the highest responsible for the development of the entire legal system in this country with regard to the fiasco of its law on sexual freedom. This is the solution proposed by our Minister of Justice while convicted sexual aggressors and pederasts are released before their due, to go out on the street to endanger once again the integrity of the women and children of this country. Calm and tranquillity for all those victims who, after passing through the worst experience of their lives, after passing through a trial in which they relived the horror and in which they faced face to face with those who hurt them so much, after finally achieving the sentence that relieves but never serves to erase the suffering, will have to see how their aggressors benefit from this new law. Calm and tranquillity for all women and children who already know that if one day they have the misfortune of being victims of these predators, they will not even have the consolation of seeing how they rot in prison because their Government puts the interests of criminals above those of the victims. [[Applauds]] What a tremendous irresponsibility of our Minister of Justice, who has let his equal counterpart and his vehemently advisers get away with it! What a irresponsibility to let those who have already demonstrated truly alarming legal illiteracy impose their fanaticism at any price! The Minister of Justice should not have profiled, she had a greater responsibility. That this law was a good law was his obligation and, therefore, failure is fundamentally his. But unfortunately there is no solution anymore, even by amending the law we will not be able to go back to undoing the mischief. We will no longer be able to prevent them from getting out on the streets first who knows how many sexual aggressors, with the consequent suffering for their victims and with the consequent risk for women for the high degree of recidivism of these criminals. [[Applauds]] And they still have the defachability to say and continue to insist that this law will protect us. Ladies and gentlemen, how is this law going to protect us by getting the aggressors out of jail before they do? How will he protect us by reducing the penalties of the aggressors? Do they not realize that what they have done with this has been to remove the gravity of these crimes, that by reducing penalties they feed the social consciousness that these abject crimes are less important than they are? Moreover, it is not just the reviews of sentences, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only that the revisions that have been made and that have gone beyond the mid-centenary - and I say that they have transcended because we suspect that we do not have an official count, because they do not want us to know the scope of its chapter - it is not only that the inventory of cuts in convictions is destined to go up because there are around four thousand prisoners of these crimes in Spain and there are hundreds of cases subject to a potential review, it is not only that Madrid has four hundred and fifty cases that can be reviewed nor that at least eleven other provincial hearings have pronounced themselves in favor of applying in the reviews the most favourable criterion of convictions; it is that the new convictions are also affected, ladies and gentlemen, it is that the courts have already begun to issue sentences relating to cases of sexual assault much lower, it is that in Barcelona has been handed down a sentence for a crime consummated rape in the past six years or a sexual violation that has already been imposed a punishment of three years, but that is now a punishment of three years old and that has been committed an abuse. I mean, if a girl says yes, as she is, it's not a rape, and then you get shocked when we say you're promoting pederasty. It's just that it's very serious, ladies and gentlemen. It is very serious and it is not the fault of the judges or the defence lawyers, it is your fault, of those who presented this law and of all those who supported it. This is the harsh reality. [[Applauds]] It is not an invention of this Member or of this parliamentary group, it is our Criminal Code that indicates that those criminal laws that favour the defendant will have retroactive effect, it is our Constitution that guarantees the irretroactivity of non-proportional or restrictive provisions of individual rights. It is in the drawer that if a convicted person for the old minimum sentence can request a review of the sentence, it is because, if he had been tried under the current law, his sentence would have been lower. And it doesn't matter that now we also call aggression what we used to call abuse. They don't sell it to us as an advance if in the end that means the penalties are going to be lower. Let us call things by their name: you have reduced the penalties of rapists. That's what they've done. Because, as always, you protect criminals more than your victims, because it seems to you that only those who violate the law, the coups, the seditious, the embezzlers, the okupas, those who illegally assault our borders and, now also, the rapists have human rights. The only thing you have achieved with this law is that, as always, the offender wins and that, as always, it is the victims who are left unprotected. So please do not say again that this law protects us, because only by hardening the penalties and keeping rapists away from us and our children will they be able to protect us, and that will only happen if we all stop Sánchez's blow. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ruiz. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. The questioning of the Minister of Justice regarding the consequences of the infamous Organic Law 10/2022 of 6 September on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom again left very worrying signs about the democratic quality of the government that Pedro Sánchez chairs. Mrs Llop Cuenca's disdainful response reflected, once again, the unfortunate result of an executive who, through his independenceist supporters, accelerates the destruction of the constitutional framework and who is paralysed after them, after the representatives of separatism in this House, to carry out a legislative activity that is seriously harmful to society with laws tailored to the criminals and, in the case of the law of itself, very harmful to the victims themselves. It has already been repeated this afternoon that more than half a hundred sexual rapists and aggressors have benefited from the huge cracks in the legislative text which, despite being warned by the opposition, have been neglected. Hundreds of cases likely to be remunerated will be increased in the coming days in the face of pending reviews. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary initiative by the Group of the European People's Party is essential in order to correct urgently and without much delay the very serious imperfections of a law which, in addition to reducing the penalties to those convicted of sexual offences, has once again made clear the painful trace of the Government's legislative production. Likewise, the lack of respect from the Executive towards another of the powers of the State, the Judiciary, with widespread disqualifications towards those judges who are applying the undesirable benefits derived from bad legislation, which, I repeat, were warned by the opposition in the processing of the bill, is unacceptable. Therefore, the revision to which the Government is urged at the first of the points of the motion is more than therapeutic, although the information from the last few days is pessimistic about the will to correct and heal the undesirable side effects of the law. In fact, today - as Mrs Moro Almaraz has just explained - the two parliamentary groups that are part of the government coalition have promoted the resolution of the disaster with perplexity in setting out the reasons for the reform of the Criminal Code for the crimes of sedition and embezzlement. From ridiculous to ridiculous, PSOE and United We can, in collaboration with your favorite associates, want to introduce a paragraph in a statement of reasons for another later law to modify the law of yes o'yes, which is much earlier. This sluggish form of lawmaking is already being strongly warned by legal means, just as it is unserviceable to avoid the calamity that continues to put sex offenders on the street. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need the other points in the initiative that revolve around the state pact on gender-based violence and the different axes it develops. They are priorities that seek to revalue various measures in favour of women and girls who are victims of crimes against freedom and sexual compensation. But it is no wonder that five years ago, when Mrs Montero spokeswoman of the United Parliamentary Group, Podemos came to promote a comprehensive amendment to that great state pact, which was finally adopted with her abstention and that of her parliamentary group. It is accredited in the Journal of Sessions of Congress that those who today are ministers, secretaries of state and government delegate against gender-based violence do not cultivate political consensus. His challenging attitude in the past few weeks confirms it once again. Conclusion: Despite the high cost of their international travel, it is far more affordable and healthy for Spanish society to have the elite of equal touring in New York than perceiving harmful rules in the ministry or crazy in this House from the blue bank against the opposition. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to refer to the apparent inability of the Minister of Justice to defend within the Council of Ministers and outside the Moncloa the disqualifications with which, from the Ministry of Equality, including its surroundings and surroundings, judges have been poured on account of this crazy episode resulting from a poorly elaborated organic law. Moreover, with her attitude towards what has happened and with her complicity in the machinations that are now being perpetuated to put the Constitutional Court at the service of the political cause of sanchismo, Mrs Llop, holder of the Justice portfolio, is also directly responsible for a disturbing drift for Spain, for freedom and for democracy. I shall vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u137	Thank you, President. I will intervene very briefly from the seat. This motion resulting from interpellation is part of the - for now - trilogy of the no to the self is yes, thinner than the infamous PNL of VOX - yes, of the infamous PNL of VOX - and thinner also, of course, the interlocutor of the People's Party. [[rumors]] [[Mr OrtegaSmith Molina speaks words that are not perceived]] It started with a PNL, continued with an inquiry and ends - for now - with a motion. The first failed to convince the majority of the House and now come with another attempt to say the same thing again, but with the bait of gender-based violence at the tip of the hook. [[The Rumors Continue]] Who's going...? Madam President, can you tell this gentleman to shut up, please, that he's interrupting me?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u138	Yes, Mr. Aguirretxea. I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u139	May I continue? He said who would stand against measures against gender-based violence? Who is not going to support measures to strengthen the state pact? No one, of course, but you have not said anything about that in your speech. I'm sorry, but we're not going to fall into the temptation to bite the hook. You're in another war and now you've hooked on soft tissue and you don't want to let go. With the excuse of some sentences in the application of the law of yes is yes, you go for all. For you it is a magnificent opportunity for, wanting to undermine and wear down the government - which seems to me very valid on your part - to crawl with everything you catch along the way; among others, the laws that you have never voted for, have never built and then are built into banners in your defense. It's part of the game, I'm not gonna touch it anymore. But I deny them the biggest. You are in a different thesis; you are not in the spirit that brought forth the law of sexual freedom, neither the trans law, nor the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy, nor many more. You don't want to review the penalties, you want to review the crimes and the spirit that drives them. And that's why they won't count on our vote or our help. We warned you two weeks ago in their proposal that the measures they are proposing are useless and we also believe that it takes perspective and rigour to make any legal change. They're in a hurry, they're in a hurry, but for other reasons. I do not know whether you intend to put this to the vote on points, but the first two will not count on our support. I do not go any further because everything is already said and we will not enter this game that seeks something different than what it proposes and proposes something different than what we need. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Aguirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u141	Thank you, President and ladies and gentlemen. We are once again debating this proposal which the People's Party has already brought three times to the parliamentary seat, first in the Senate, a few weeks ago in this House in the form of a non-law proposal and now as a motion. As I said then, in Citizens we will always support any initiative that is aimed at improving citizens' requests and, in addition, we will do so responsibly. That is why, as in the Senate, already in the previous initiative, we again propose an amendment to correct the defect in the law of sexual freedom. We've always, always said we have to recognize that we have to check the guys. We said it already in Ponencia and we say it again. However, the progress that the law on sexual freedom contains must not be renounced, in any way. Unfortunately, we continue to see that there are a number of consequences of the rule that are not what none of us working on the law wanted. That's what I said in my previous speech. And I do think it is important that if there are a number of consequences that we did not want, work is done to correct them, but not at the expense of eliminating the advances that the law of sexual freedom entails. What do we consider in Citizens? The review of the types. We believe that from the Ministry of Justice, from the Ministry of Equality itself, informing the various parliamentary groups, we should already be working on this type review, and that is what we hope will be done. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u143	On the other hand, what we do not consider acceptable in any way is that the judges themselves have been criminalized in this, when really - I said it already - a judge what he does in his work is to interpret the norm. Then, if the rules are to be interpreted, the work being done must be respected. And the guilt that there is a question related to the review of sentences at no time is of the judges. That is, any jurist who appreciates himself understands that they interpret the norm. That is why we believe that it is also important not to have a position of criminalizing judges. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, when La Manada's sentence occurred, I told you: all the political colors, including you, began to criticize that kind of sentence. We, from Citizens, said: it is necessary to review the penalties that we have in order for there to be sentences adjusted to the gravity of the facts, because we all agree, as was Minister Catalá, that it was the one who asked the Codification Commission for the need for the amendment, in which it was not at all adjusted to the right that a group violation could have a lower penalty than an individual. Do we agree or do we disagree? Therefore, that should not be changed. The law of sexual freedom is a step forward in that. Don't you think it also represents an advance with the aggravating factors that have been established? Because the feathers go up. Not only are penalties reduced; no, no, in 189, penalties are raised when they use burundanga for the rape of a woman or when a woman is disabled and this type of vulnerability is used for it, and it is also included when the telematic media or the Internet are used. What do we do now? To say that protection is not needed? Should we go back to the previous penalties? No, no. I always say that we are responsible for the debate on this legislation. We have to change one part, we have to get to work and recognize that we have to do it, and it is not at the expense of others, it is not at the expense of other professionals, it is not at the expense of one State power over another, or much less. That is the responsible position. On the other hand, acknowledge the progress. Because we talk about the types, but all the progress that entails social protection for women who are victims of sexual violence and aggression is very pioneering in this area. So, what does Citizens say again? Take our amendment into account, let us work on that review and let us stop blaming those who are not to blame. And we are working very hard to ensure that this situation is not used - I say it on many occasions on equality issues - because dogmas are used to transmit fears, dangers and situations of insecurity to society. Let us be so much more responsible with our speeches, that is what I would ask of all your ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u145	Thank you, President. I was not going to intervene, but it turns out that today a compromise has been adopted in the sedition bill, and with the support of the Socialist Group, to modify the explanatory statement, to say that yes, a transitional provision is needed to close the law, since - and I quote - the diversity of interpretations made in recent reforms affecting the Criminal Code advises its express introduction in accordance with the principle of legal certainty guaranteed in article 9.3 of the Constitution. There is no mention in that amendment of LOGIA, which has become a sort of elephant in the room, but everyone knows that you are thinking of the law of the only yes. A few days ago, I commented on a PP initiative that no subsequent modification would prevent further review of convictions for sexual assault. None. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u146	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u147	I also said that a transitory with the law in force, opened the revision window, arrived late and was useless and that a transitory had to be introduced into the law for legal certainty. And I am sorry to have to say that it is regrettable that, while the PSOE Ministry of Justice implicitly recognizes through this transactional in the sedition that the law alone is indeed that they certified in the aspect of the Criminal Code was wrongly closed, we are being told that we are not being supported by an amendment that is now under way. I'll explain myself. In the law alone, our amendment did succeed in punishing criminally that the image of a person who has not given his authorization is used on the Internet to create false profiles from which he can be humiliated, harassed or degraded. For example, if the image is used on contact or pornography pages. We ask for the creation of this legal framework because the parents of many boys and girls felt helpless when they saw the image of their children, usually doing sports or going to the pool - in reality, with little clothes -, used in a denigrating, degrading way. Ladies and gentlemen, you mostly supported that amendment, but now, during the process of the sexual and reproductive health law, we have asked for it to be stated in the law that if the images used are of minors or persons with disabilities, the upper part of the sentence will apply. Nothing more, nothing less. Since his ministry, from the Ministry of Justice, it has been said that no and we have been argued that article 22.4 of the Criminal Code already contains the aggravating factors in the case of minors, but this justification does not serve us, and it does not serve if we pay attention to the opinion of prosecutors who usually live such cases. What brings us forward: the aggravating factors of article 22.4 apply when the author's motivation is discriminatory or, in the case of age, whether this condition of being a minor is what motivates him. If the Ministry's response was acceptable, there would not be a single aggravated subtype in the Criminal Code when the victim was a minor, and that is not the case, they know it perfectly well. Sexual assaults against children under the age of sixteen and child pornography, prostitution and the dissemination of drugs, among others, are reported. The reality is that we do not want to introduce this amendment, which improves the protection of minors and persons with disabilities, because some groups have considered it better not to open the LOGILS melon. It's been like this. It has been, but I insist again. And why do I do that? It turns out that it has already been confirmed from the Government that after the Supreme Court's ruling in the Arandina case the Ministries of Justice and Equality are in contact in case technical adjustments are required in the law of the only case. So, if you want, the first technical adjustment you can make - take note - is by adopting Amendment 24 to the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act that is being voted on here this Thursday, the amendment to which I have just referred. And if we have to make changes to the law of the self it is in order to improve women's lives, to guarantee their sexual security, count on us. We're always here for dialogue. They don't have to do it between ministries, they count on all of us. That is why I am not going to support the motion of the PP or any other group, because precisely what I want, what I think is necessary - as has already been said here - is for us to dialogue with each other to find the solution. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please. Mrs Velarde has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u149	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that today, with this law in our country, women's rights are more protected, but also more extended, because it is an integral law - and I will remind you this - to guarantee and protect the right to sexual freedom in an integral way and to eradicate sexual violence, but also to eradicate the spread of acts of sexual violence through technology and sexual extortion and to raise awareness in the educational sphere. It also sought to protect the privacy of victims, especially their personal data, and numerous social measures. This law is extensive, comprehensive and covers issues that the feminist movement has been demanding for years - I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - but you are not talking about the comprehensive law - I repeat - but only about the modification of the Penal Code by the interpretation that has been made, which goes against the very spirit of the law and also the presentation of reasons. What's wrong with reforming, and I'm going to ask your honor of the PP... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u150	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Velarde. Ladies! [[Pause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u151	Thank you. I was asking Mrs. Moro what the problem is in reforming the Penal Code. We're not going to be able to reform it anymore, nor are we going to have a fork of crimes and penalties and we're going to have to keep a single type of crime? You know this doesn't make any sense, and I'm going to remind you of some things. The rule was revised by the Government, by all the proposing ministries, including the Ministry of Justice, which reported favourably on the warning contained in the report of the General Council of the Judiciary on the need not to reduce the maximum penalties to avoid cuts in convictions, and is thus included in the rule. It has also been reviewed by the State bodies, which issued their respective reports: the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Spanish Data Protection Agency, the Economic and Social Council and the Fiscal Council, in addition to having been reviewed by both Houses, Congress and Senate, and by all the parliamentary groups that make up it. On the other hand, with regard to the application of the so-called principle of criminal retroactivity to the new types introduced in the Criminal Code, the general transitional law is fully applicable, including the content of the second transitional provisions introduced in the Criminal Code by the 1995 and fifth reforms introduced in the Criminal Code in 2015, and both remain fully in force. I remember that too, Mrs. Moro. Moreover, it is a doctrine reiterated by the Supreme Court that there is generally no review where the sentence being carried out is taxable under the new legislation. Mrs. Moro says the law is wrong. I'm going to ask you, Mrs. Moro, in what. I say this because they do not know how to say it, they do not know how to make any proposal, and in their motion there is no proposal. We want to know. The law is well drafted and no report warned of possible subsequent interpretations of the law, and neither will you, I will tell you. So neither the ministries, nor the agencies, nor the councils, nor the two Houses, nor yourselves in your amendments to the whole, said anything about it. What's going on, what are they saying they're also incompetent? They're saying it? Or do they mean that it was obvious, but that no one noticed to harm the Ministry of Equality or this law? I don't think they're saying that, are they? Then we don't understand. If you are so smart and so smart, why has the leadership of the People's Party declared that it paralyses the supposed reform that you announced given your complexity, as it has appeared in the press? You have not made any proposals after you have announced it because the law does not suffer from the defect you say; otherwise, you would have already done so. And because they do not want to speak either about consent or about abuse and aggression. As a country, we are at the forefront of expanding women's rights, and this has been recognized internationally. And thanks to this law and many other measures women denounce more; yes, they denounce more because they are less able to denounce and also because they feel more protected by the laws that have been passed by the Ministry of Equality. They have not put forward any proposals and I will tell you why. Because it is sad and painful that without having absolutely no proposal, as I say, its only intention is to use the victims, as they have done throughout history. That's very painful. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u152	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u153	I'm gonna end up - how hard to do it with so much noise - telling you one thing. Here are two ways to do things. One, as the Ministry of Equality does, and not only the Ministry of Equality, but the majority of this House, protecting women and expanding their rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u154	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u155	I'm on my way. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u156	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u157	And there is another way to do that, which is to try to draw political revenue from the suffering of the victims, as they have done all their lives with other victims as well. [[Applauds]] I'm just going to tell you one thing: I hope and wish you could live with that slab. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Velarde. Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u159	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u160	Wait a minute, Mrs. Fernández, please. Ladies and gentlemen, don't stand in the hall talking, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u161	Look at what a paradox, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you urge us with many warnings and with grandiose speeches to have the Government amend the law guaranteeing full sexual freedom. They have devoted a lot of work to preparing non-legislative initiatives in the Senate and Congress and have also worked hard to bring this request to all the autonomous parliaments of the country, as if they had some competence in criminal matters. They know that such proposals serve to petition the Government, especially in matters where the General Courts have no jurisdiction or have no capacity to do so. This is not the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you were a useful opposition to Spain, you dedicated yourselves to proposing using the capabilities you have attributed to you and not to inflaming the public debate. Believe me, Spain would be much more grateful to you to devote your time to working instead of generating controversy for all the autonomous parliaments, for the municipalities and also here, in the General Courts. A subject as complex and delicate as this deserves more consideration, more respect and less frivolity on its part. [[Applauds]] I tell you this, ladies and gentlemen, because you always see the opportunity in the confrontation rather than the possibility of extending civil rights, and I am particularly sorry about this. For example, do you know that the Parliament of Castile and León was the only one in Spain that did not carry out any commemorative action on 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women? I can tell you that, as a lioness, I am extremely ashamed that the only gesture made by the Castilian and Leonese institutions were evil lights that the socialist parliamentarians put in their offices of the Courts. The only thing. [[Applauds]] I don't know what this will look like to you. It is very difficult, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to believe in your newly-released concern for equality. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u162	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Fernández. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to continue unless there is a minimum of silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u163	Thank you, President. And, look, I'll leave the symbolic behind to talk about something that undoubtedly impacts the lives of victims of male violence. Do you know that Mr Mañueco has committed to eliminating aid for the recruitment of women victims of gender-based violence? Its industrial and labour dynamism adviser, who has appointed VOX, has tried to replace them with a generalist subsidy of 1500 euros because he considers that violence is gender-free. I don't know what this looks like to you. I would like to ask you sincerely how this is compatible with the defence of the State Pact against Gender Violence, because it is very difficult to understand it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In matters of equality you only know how to cross arms, to bring in resources of unconstitutionality or, at best, to add to rebuf. You're only interested in equality when it smells like political opportunity. You are very agitated and of very little proposal; you are very bold and of no courageous decision regarding your priority partners in Murcia and Castile and León, of a lot of gesture and little action, of a lot of speech, but of no commitment. How wrong you are if you believe that the Spaniards are not realizing your maneuvers. It is obvious that you are making an approximation to this rule more peculiar to a television chatter than to a political group with parliamentary powers. It is amazing that you are unable to recognize any of the virtues of the law of sexual freedom. This law addresses all the dimensions of sexual violence and contains very important measures in the field of care, social, health and above all, ladies and gentlemen, for the accompaniment and protection of victims. You can't be so manic. Moreover, you know that for the PSOE it is a law that must have been even more ambitious. You know that the PSOE was a pioneer, betting that this law would give an effective criminal response to pimping, because prostitution is, above all else, a form of sexual violence. [[Applauds]] I would ask you, please, to stop reducing the debate on this law to a debate of penalties, because it is not fair, ladies and gentlemen. This law is much more than that. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is and will always be the party of equality between men and women. This is the political party that was able to translate the language of the demands of the feminist movement into institutional politics. It is the party of strict and emblematic laws. [[Rumors]] It is the party that put feminism on the frontline of legality and the rule of law. It has been the PSOE who has always shown what rigorous work is in terms of the prestige of feminism in political and legal matters. This has always been our school, that of Carlota Bustelo, that of María Izquierdo Rojo, that of Fernández de la Vega and, of course, that of our Minister of Justice, Pilar Llop. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of this House to ensure that what has always been the will of the legislator is fulfilled and we must do so with seriousness and rigour. It has been a shame that you were more concerned about visiting motions anywhere in Spain than sitting to work. As always, we'll be waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mrs Moro, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u165	No, we don't accept it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group amending Law 11/2002 of 6 May, which regulates the National Intelligence Centre; and Organic Law 2/2002 of 6 May, which regulates the prior judicial control of the National Intelligence Centre. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 37 against, 300 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-13-CD221213.u168	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was eight o'clock at night.
