ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 23, corresponding to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which amends Law 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the Electricity Sector, to include measures to facilitate the provision of electricity under competitive conditions to seasonal consumers. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to greet the legitimate representatives of farmers and farmers in Spain, the representatives of the National Federation of Regiment Communities and the fruits and vegetables in our country; their needs are our road map. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Group is bringing to the debate a proposal for a law to help them lower the energy bill, to prevent electricity companies from covering them for what they do not consume, so that once and for all seasonal activities can hire two different powers throughout the year, especially agricultural activity. It is a proposal that, if it had continued to govern the People's Party in 2018, would have been implemented for more than four and a half years now. The electricity companies would have had the obligation to offer and the farmers and farmers in this country would have saved hundreds of thousands of euros. I have to admit that since my colleagues, Juan Diego Requena and Marta González, and I have met with all of them and worked on this proposal until today the damage to their policies to the countryside has increased so that not even this solution is enough on its own. It has been four and a half years since the People's Party's proposal, approved in 2018, allowed double electric billing and still cannot apply it, simply and simply because you, gentlemen of the government, did not want to. Because the Spanish countryside is being applied to rajatabla the maximum sanchest of the no is no and in this matter, moreover, they have decided to star one more episode of their governmental reality show with a lead author, Mrs Ribera, and a sadly secondary actor, the area's head, Minister Planas. I'll explain it to you clearly to make it easier for Moncloa's strategists when, eager for transparency, they take you to Netflix. Look, March 2018, Law 1/2018 already regulates double electric billing. It seems logical, the necessary power is not the same in irrigation time as in winter, when you pick up the fruit that when the cameras are off or when the restaurant is open or closed. Year 2020, two years later - a reasonable time - the People's Party begins to present initiatives - up to ten - to demand compliance. March 2021, three years later, Mrs Ribera appears On scene, changes the methodology of calculating the charges of the electrical system and says: The new electric bill already allows you to pay energy according to consumption. Well, he also said he was going to lower the bill for the light, that's true. Some agricultural organizations that are not for shows denounced it because they knew that this increases their bill by 40% to 50%, as it has been. In 2021, six months since Mrs Rivera said that this was resolved, Minister Planas appears and acknowledges that the government has created a problem and is committed to lowering the invoice and tariffs in another way for the agricultural sector. I don't know which one of you would be right. But we arrived in December 2021 and the show is already becoming a comedy. The minister of the branch puts in the law of the food chain the same thing that was written in the law of 2018, but this time sets the deadline of execution in six months. June 2022, after the six months established by the Government, the Government fails and farmers and agricultural organizations have to go to the Ombudsman for help. [[Shows a document.- Rumors]] Look, today's the 20th... sorry, president, I can't talk, it's just not easy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u4	One second. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u5	Thank you, President. I was telling you that, after this reality, today is September 20, 2022, ladies and gentlemen. We are not going to ask ourselves whether it is ignorance or bad faith that has led the government to lead this farce that has caused farmers and farmers to spend more than four years paying hundreds of thousands of euros on electricity companies for energy that they do not need or consume. We are not going to ask ourselves whether it is ignorance or bad faith to presume that the government has solved its problems without listening to them even when the oil has risen by 73%, I think more than 50%, the fertilizers by 300 %, there is a tremendous drought and they are terrified by what comes over them, the cuts and the demands of the common agricultural policy. Nor will we ask ourselves whether it is ignorance or bad faith to say that the solution is to implement the reform of the food chain law, that we all warn that it will not work, that it is not working and that today we find that even the Government itself fails. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to waste our time wondering whether it is ignorance or bad faith that has led them to vote against this proposal up to ten times in four years. And we're not going to do it because the situation in the Spanish countryside is neither for Netflix series nor to waste time wondering if yours is ignorance or bad faith. That destructive opposition role is left to the Government, we prefer to make serious, solid and coherent proposals to improve people's lives, and this law proposal is, to develop the system so that in a few weeks double electric billing can be a reality. Gentlemen of the Government, we have done their duties, it is true, they do not even have to copy - although we know that they know how to do so - they only have to vote yes and apply it. What is at stake is not nonsense; what we play, gentlemen of the government, is the survival of agriculture and livestock in our country. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] I will give you just two examples so that you can see the need to approve and even improve it in its processing in order to reduce production costs. First example, a community of regents of my land, Castile and Lion, young people incorporated, millionaire investments to have an efficient, sustainable and digitized irrigation, put solar plates, but they cannot sell the surplus, have limited self-consumption capacity as well and, moreover, when they sell it, the price is much lower than they buy. When they go to water they have no water because the works of the rafts that were planned to accumulate it have been paralyzed. The lack of water means that, with drought, it is taken to Portugal and cannot take advantage of it. And well, they're still lucky, it doesn't happen to them like other farmers who have to water with desalinated water and they're even raising the price of light. And now we're going with the power bill. In the most efficient of all irrigation stations, if they had approved double electric billing for four years, do you know what they would have saved for about 2500 hectares? 750 000 euros; 75 000 euros that have been paying for nothing to power stations. They think that in Spain there are almost three million hectares of irrigation, so put the bills. The figure they could have saved exceeds EUR 1 billion. [[A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] And added to this they have also had to disburse the rise in the cost of energy and the Iberian exception. Do you know the result? They're paying four times more a month than a year ago for watering the same cereal surface. Do you know how much bread has to go up to pay for this? Well, do the math. Second example, fruit growers, fruit and vegetable companies, I don't care about the area of Spain. The example is from Catalonia. They have a closed-price contract, the same price from June to December, and it turns out they get the receipt for June and well; in July an increase of 50% and in August double. They pay more for the Iberian exception than for the energy they have hired at a fixed price, but not a little more, but they go from paying 29,000 euros to paying 76 380,77. How are the apples going to be, ladies and gentlemen? Shall we take the price of the apple? Who's gonna pay for the play? Let someone explain it to us, because the same has happened to him who produces, to whom he packs, to whom he transforms, to whom he transports and to whom he sells the kilo of apples, the bar of bread or the litre of milk; to all is happening exactly the same thing. It is true that we now understand the reluctance of the Minister of Agriculture to regulate the criteria and that there are references to production costs in the chain law. This is understandable. These prices cannot be allowed. [[Applauds]] What is clear is that each and every one of the agents in the chain has to cover their production costs, especially producers, farmers and livestock farmers, but we need to know who will pay them. They will understand that the great solution of this progressive government to raise prices does not serve us. Think about whether it would be more reasonable to lower production costs, ensure profitability, lower energy prices, avoid the damage caused by the Iberian exception, let the regents sell the energy surplus and facilitate self-consumption and double billing. And if you really want to help people and reduce the cost of food, you have to lower the VAT on these products and increase the money that citizens have in their pockets so they can buy them. The government has raised an extra EUR 22 billion for inflation, we're not asking for alms, it's that we're paying for it by all the Spaniards and it doesn't seem unthinkable that a little bit is meant to ease the shopping basket and not just ask us all for an effort, that we do it, but an effort that the government refuses to make beyond taking off the tie. [[Applauds]] All these measures are here, in the energy pact sent to them by President Feijoo. [[Show a document]] Ladies and gentlemen, given the critical situation that I have described to you and that all the farmers and farmers in our country live in, I would like, in conclusion, to make a proposal to you. They support this consideration, we get to work this same afternoon and with the utmost speed we then process this consideration as a bill. If we don't, all we're going to get is that in Spain it's harder to produce than in other countries. It's already costing us twice as much, but if we don't support it, if we don't work to reduce production costs, we'll make bread...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u6	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u7	...we will eat apples, we will drink milk, but they will not be Spanish products, we will depend on whether they want to sell us the products, we will pay whatever they want to charge us...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u8	Your Honor, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u9	...and we will be complicit in the abandonment of 84% of the territory occupied by our rural world. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u10	Thank you. Position-fixing turn. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. If the different legal changes that arise in this correct proposal of law that the People's Group registered there in February 2021 were already essential, they are now with much greater reason, because the dramatic escalation of the costs of electricity supply is since then causing irreversible damage to different productive sectors and very significantly to those who are conditioned by seasonality. This proposal facilitates a legislative space to enable measures to modulate electricity procurement according to needs in each annual period, which aims to promote competitiveness that is very marked by many impacts, but highlighted by the energy sector. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Marcos has referred to different sectors on which the seasonality factor has a very high impact. I would also like to point out what this factor means for those who are irreplaceable pillars of the food chain, in the case of our farmers, farmers and fishermen - in short, the whole primary sector - who see how the cost of inputs, fertilizers, feed and so on is added to the ruinous energy nonsense, which is already forcing for several months now severe and dramatic productive cuts, which in the case of dairy farming involves the slaughter of animals, in Asturias more than 20% of slaughtered animals. In short, there is an urgent need for a regulatory framework for seasonal or seasonal activities so that they can benefit from demand-driven energy supplies. This is a claim which is on the agenda today, which is costing jobs and which is a matter of survival, and which is why the legislative amendments referred to in this proposal, which I shall be voting in favour, are of value. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to intervene in this proposal for a law because, although seasonality in the Canary Islands is not so much a help, I fully agree with the explanatory statement of reasons for proposing structural measures adapted to the sectors in order to be able to cushion the impact as best as possible. We have a livestock sector in the Canary Islands that, as the fellow from Asturias was saying, is sending livestock to the slaughterhouse and the agricultural sector is dying. We need structural measures tailored to the sectors, and that is achieved by measures like this. Important, ladies and gentlemen, for some time they have been suffering and saying that from the stoppage of the COVID and the rise in inflation due to the war the costs are unsustainable and we need to make them more and more sustainable. Why? With this I have four sessions in this House and I am not tired of repeating that all this is a chain that ends up having an impact on families. The costs end up impacting on the families and, unfortunately, on the ones with the least, because it is the white food brands that have the most rise; eggs, milk, flour or legumes do not stop climbing and this means an extra cost of almost 1000 euros a year for the families with the least. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not tired of saying that we are not going to leave anyone behind, but only with cheques with an expiry date are things not resolved. We need measures tailored to the sectors. And what does the government do? Fighting for a political space: some say that food prices must be met, without studies or proposals on the table, and the other says no, that this is illegal, and meanwhile sectors are dying and families paying more for the basic shopping basket. This cannot go on like this, we have to get started to lower production costs because, I repeat, this is a chain, and always the chain ends up breaking through the weakest link. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory statement talks about drought, because on our islands we have had 13 consecutive years of falling rains, except, of course, specific events such as Filomena, which involve such a concentration of rain that create more debris than benefits. We also talk about climate change, we love to talk about it, but, beyond removing the tie, there are few measures I see aimed at which sectors like these dampen its impact. Ladies and gentlemen, 13 years of shortage. Gran Canaria has the largest reservoirs on the eight islands and are at 10%. Of the eight islands, three are in hydraulic emergency. We don't have water, farmers don't have water, products go up, farmers close... What are we thinking? I do not want to let go of the opportunity to remind the Socialist Party - because I do remember - that long ago, when it governed the PP and did not comply with the hydraulic infrastructure agreement, the Socialist Party strongly denounced it. So what do we have now? A 2018 agreement signed with Minister Teresa Ribera, of which 900 million for fifteen years, know how much money has been given? Zero, zero for the agreement on hydraulic infrastructure, which is vital for the Canary Islands because we have to drain 90% of the water. Ladies and gentlemen, this non-existent commitment on the part of the government is only a machaca to those who are weaker in the chain. Please, let us leave that political space whether to raise prices or not and put ourselves to work with measures studied and adapted to the sectors. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u14	Thank you. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u15	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a bill by the People's Group to amend Law 24/2013 on the Electricity Sector to include measures to facilitate electricity supply under competitive conditions to seasonal consumers. The Proposal specifically proposes the amendment of Royal Decree 1164/2001 of 26 October, establishing tariffs for access to electricity transmission and distribution networks, so that irrigation access contracts and seasonal economic activities can have the possibility of having two different powers over twelve months depending on the need for supply for the activity. In this sense, we have to comment that this possibility is already covered in several laws: first it was in the drought law of 2018 and now, more recently, in the food chain law, through an amendment that was driven by this group, the Basque Nationalist Party, among others, to enable not only the two powers, but also to establish a bonus to diesel, plastics and fertilizers, and that was incorporated into the text in order to be able to discriminate the time of risk and that of non-irrigation, as it is in the text. However, regulatory development is the responsibility of the Ecological Transition, as it is a regulation belonging to the electricity sector that has not yet been addressed and that, of course, we understand that it should be addressed, because the laws are to be complied with and we believe that the ministry is already a little late. This failure, finally, goes against those collectives that are concerned with protecting or improving the conditions for developing their activity so that they can be competitive and, especially, farmers, who still cannot enjoy this double power in the short term because of this inaction of the ministry. As I have already said, there are several failed attempts to dispose of these two powers: the drought law, the final provision of an amendment also approved in the 2021 State General Budgets and the food chain law. For us there is no need to recollect this measure because it is already planned, what is needed is a real commitment on the part of the Government that it will be implemented within a reasonable period of time, and that, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it is not seven days, which is what you propose, because you know that this is going to be unworkable and unreal, nor that it will take time on the part of the Government. At least what is appropriate today is that the groups supporting the Government make a clear commitment in this rostrum that the Transitional Ministry will incorporate this possibility within a reasonable period of time. With regard to the second petition, tolls and charges, first, we understand that this corresponds to the CNMC, because it is the one that has the competence for the formulation of the toll methodology. Secondly, it does not seem appropriate at this time to modify those parameters set out in the recently approved definition of the toll methodology by the NCMC when we do not yet have an assessment of it or of its evolution and economic impact due to the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing: an unprecedented energy shock that has resulted in high electricity prices. Thirdly, the proposal also does not address an impact analysis of the implementation of this measure in all respects and, moreover, there is already a reduction in tolls until 31 December as a result of the war in Ukraine. Therefore, this second measure, or at least to study new pricing mechanisms to reduce the energy costs of seasonal producers in the electricity bill, should be addressed in perhaps more normal circumstances and, of course, knowing the economic impact that it could have. In addition, we should also explore other measures that may be more effective than a reduction in tolls and charges, and see if the specific measures for the agricultural sector that have established the different decrees of Ukraine are sufficient or should be increased, which we can do - we understand - in the processing as a draft law of the different decrees that have been issued here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u16	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u17	Thank you, President. Mrs Marcos, you know I admire how you do your work because we share a lot of committees, including Agriculture, but I also tell you that it's a piece of paper to defend you here today, in front of the sector, and I'll explain it to you now. Last week his party brought to this plenary an initiative perfectly copied from an initiative that presented Citizens months before the People's Group presented it: the deflation of the IRPF. [[protests]] The good thing is it's in Congressional records, so anyone can check it out. But today it is up to you to make the mortal leap, because it brings a bill that has a central issue that starts with a motion that Citizens tabled in March 2021 and that was approved with the support of all parliamentary groups, except one, the People's Group, which abstained. That is why I take the opportunity to greet the sector and tell it that Citizens and this initiative has been attracted here after an inquiry to Mr Planas; that we were able, as we always are, to negotiate with the Socialist Group so that it could go ahead and that it was the People's Group that abstained because it was not them who presented it. I have to say that this initiative to try to change the electricity tariff and that there is that double rate not only for farmers, but for all sectors that have a seasonal period of more activity also brought it earlier many parties, but Citizens brought it and we got the consensus of the majority of the House except, I say again, the People's Group. And I'm going to read you the points, basically to see that it's something we've already brought in, that's approved and that the sector sees with good eyes, and not just the agricultural sector, but all sectors, for example, the hotelmaker, the tourist, the hotelmaker and many other sectors. We called for regulatory regulations to be adopted as soon as possible to allow access contracts for irrigation to have two different powers over the course of twelve months, as provided for in the final fifth bis provision of Law 24/2013 of 26 December of the Electrical Sector. We ask that the possibility of hiring two different powers over the course of 12 months be extended to other areas other than the agricultural sector, areas, as I said earlier, such as the tourism sector, because hotels are companies that can benefit from this measure. We also call for a report to be drawn up to identify other economic sectors with high seasonality in their energy demand so that they could benefit from this initiative, and the PP abstained - again, the PP abstained -. And today it brings it in a different format, to see if it hangs in front of the sector and other political parties. [[applause]] They bring the same, exactly the same. I mean more. What is the government going to do? Because I have to tell him that he's been copied, that they bring him back to the same legislature. But I understand them, because the government does absolutely nothing, since it has been able to bring it into a real decree and put it into effect, but it has not. I can understand that you bring it here, copied from Citizens, nothing happens, we share it, there is absolutely no problem, but I tell you one thing: why don't you sit down and negotiate with the Socialist Party? The only thing they do with the Socialist Party is negotiate the Court of Auditors, negotiate the General Council of the Judiciary, support or whitewash the pardons of each other, and that, although the Minister of Justice says it is what is talked about on the subway and on the bus, is not talked about. What worries the Spaniards are things like this, but we already know what the Socialist Party and the United We can vote for, the government. I'm sure you don't. Why? Because you present it, that's why. This is a clear example of bipartisanship. [[Applauds]] Bipartisanism does not think of the Spaniards, it thinks of the best for them: when I do not want to approve it I do not put it in motion and as they do not put it in motion the People's Party brings it. And so on. Meanwhile, the Spaniards are waiting. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] I tell you that we are concerned about this fundamental problem; of course we are concerned, we have brought it. We were supported by a lot of parties, and this is going to stay in the tinker, because it is already approved. We can't wait any longer. We're very concerned. It would be a mechanism to help these sectors right now: they can change tariffs and pay less when they need less and they can pay less when they produce less. It is a measure that, in fact, we will introduce into the document that we will send to Vice-President Ribera for a future contingency plan. Now would be a great time to adopt this measure, to put it into effect, because, as I say, it is already approved. We're going to work for the Spaniards, that's what they pay us for. Let's get rid of populism, really, because I'm telling you that we've won Echenique at maximum levels. Today, Mrs Marcos, you have won Mr Echenique and Podemos in a striking way. Citizens will vote yes. We think, once again, of the Spanish. And, gentlemen of the People's Party, I believe that from now on we are going to pass on the initiatives before you so that you can go copying them with more time. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u18	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. For the BNG the proposal for differentiated tariffs for seasonal producers makes sense. We believe that this can be a good idea, especially when it affects small producers, farmers or other sectors. However, it seems to us that the proposal of the People's Party is not only insufficient, but is clearly out of step with the circumstances. I believe that if the People's Party or the Socialist Party are not prepared to make structural changes, we are hardly going to solve the serious problem we have at the moment. It is clear that you do not want to touch the economic interests of electric oligopoly; you, who participated in the privatization of public electricity companies or in the liberalisation, with the Socialist Party, of the electricity sector. Finally, we believe that we must do the things that have to be done: to nationalise the electricity sector, because if electricity is an essential good it must be under public control; to create public electricity; to modify the regulation of the electricity sector in order to put an end to the marginalist market; to put a stop to the end consumers of the price of electricity and also of gas or, in the case of Galicia, a Galician electricity tariff. As long as we're not willing to make those structural changes with proposals like this, we'll hardly solve it...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u20	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u21	...the serious problem facing the citizenry at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u22	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If there is anyone who deserves with all honor the Guinness prize to hypocrisy and the hard face is, without any doubt, the People's Party. [[a Member of Parliament: Monica Oltra!]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] The People's Party calls for a power change, so that farmers can change power when they don't need to water, so that cooperatives can change power when they don't need to produce oil or dry rice - in my people - and calls for a real 2001 decree to be changed. Who ruled in 2001? Aznar, and in 2002, 2003 and 2004. Who ruled in 2011? Rajoy, and in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. They had time to change and what did they do? Look the other way. What the PP does. He is not interested in farmers, farmers, businesses or cooperatives, he is interested in posture, posture! [[Applauds]] This is what they do now that they're in opposition. Before the People's Party, this was done by Compromís in 2018, in January, when Rajoy ruled. The PP could have applied it and what did he do? Look the other way. It's all right, it's all right, fuck it - I've missed it. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u24	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, calm down, please. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u25	Good afternoon, President. Water is a scarce good and saving it should not be penalized economically, it seems a clear principle. Modernizing current irrigation systems incorporates smart, more efficient technology, but consumes more electricity, so saving everyone's water costs a few. Farmers are not yet able to use double tariffs or double powers, because there is no regulation that makes this possible. They are forced to hire the maximum power, even if they only use it for three months, paying the highest cost throughout the year. In case it were little, the price escalation of electricity is historic, the most serious in history, and not just for Putin. If we add to that the increase of fuels and fertilizers, the extraordinary costs for the treatment of agricultural waste, drought, frost... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] Being a farmer, especially on small family farms, is synonymous with economic drowning. Junts has repeatedly called in Congress and the Senate for the deployment of regulations in the law on urgent measures in the agricultural sector or in the food chain law, so it makes sense to consider a proposal that wants to unlock this government that has made delay a habit. But we also announce that we are submitting an amendment to article 18 of the bill to adopt and extend certain measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, so that the holders of electricity supply contracts for irrigation and economic activities related to tourism and subject to seasonality can benefit from the reduction of VAT on electricity to 10%, in line with what the coordinator of farmers and livestock farmers has just requested today. It was a shame that in 2018 it will be approved that the field could have two different powers over twelve months, that in 2020 it would be put as a deadline to draft this regulation on 30 June 2021 and that we are here waiting for the regulation; waiting for us, desperating the farmers. The proposed law also aims to provide electricity under competitive conditions to the tourism sector. We agree. It is true that the sector has been recovering, but the current economic situation must be activated in order to take measures to help one of the most important industries in the economy of the southern European countries, tourism. We are therefore open, once again, to support measures to help the agricultural sector and the tourism sector, basically because we want facts and not new chapters of government inefficiency. We just saw your Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan campaign. You know what I think? That while advertising says - that's how the announcement begins - that this is the generation that dreams and does, we believe that this is the government that dreams it does. And we are not saying this, but the European Union itself, which has pointed out Spain as the worst enforcer of European funds.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u26	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u27	Good afternoon, good afternoon. Today it's five years since some of our people started to go to jail. I hope that, after five years, you will understand that this is not done by putting people in jail, but by putting ballot boxes in schools and voting people freely. [[Applauds]] Having said that - I do not know how I will do to avoid looking like a grandfather onion - welcome to a classic of parliamentary debates on energy issues. The debate on seasonal power is already a classic of the PP and PSOE, but beware!, when the turn party is in opposition. Today we are going to attend a curious paper debate, and I was thinking for myself: that I be Mariscal, please. You are so kind that you make record, and if the hemerotec is terrible, the Journal of Sessions is even more so. [[looking at the table of the stenographers]] But I'm not going to be able to whip Mrs. Milagros Marcos as strongly as Mr. Mariscal Anaya deserved. You try and propose to legislate on seasonal power, but at the time of truth neither have done anything to apply it. Disengage yourselves, I'm sorry. Esquerra Republicana has long defended the seasonal power contract, and we believe it is an appropriate debate in a context where the triggered price of electricity is wasting the competitiveness of thousands of companies, especially the smaller ones and, above all, the agricultural ones. We can only agree with the updating of a regulation of the last century that does not reflect something as basic as the temporary production and consumption needs of many companies. We said it then and we will repeat it again, so I allow myself the license to remember them. We've already introduced a PNL. Citizens, in the year 2021, yes. Baldoví said that in 2018. And the PNV is recently amending the Food Chain Act. We all propose the creation of a seasonal power contract and the adaptation of various regulations for this purpose, including the one you propose in your initiative of Royal Decree 116/2001, drafted by the governments of the PP. At that time, the PP ruled and the Socialist Party was in opposition. Do you guess what the results of the votes on these various GNPs were? Indeed, our GNP was approved thanks to the votes of those in the government today and was rejected by the party that is now in the opposition. I'd say almost ipsis literis. As I said to you, on that occasion he had the opportunity to mark the position of Mr Mariscal of the People's Parliamentary Group, who with a brilliant speech ended the debate by sharpening the initiative of Esquerra Republicana and saying - I quote literally - 'I beg you... that you bring ideas that are economically sustainable and that do not incur the deficit and behaviors that burden the economy and the well-being of families'. Who will turn off, Mr. Capdevila?, repeated Mr. Mariscal in his - I repeat - brilliant speech. And that - or similar - will tell us today the also brilliant spokesman of the PSOE. You will probably repeat some phrases or expressions like these. I urge him to overcome the well-known Nadal argument of who pays for all this and take the opportunity to move a few questions. Gentlemen of the PSOE, gentlemen of Podemos, if not, how do we do it? In the week when the price of bread marks historical peaks throughout Europe, with the consequences of a drought that has caused, along with the stone, the worst of productions in decades, with the kidnapping for the contract tax on 31 December that denounces today Afrucat, the Association of the Fresh Fruit of Catalonia, and so many penalties that the primary sector accuses, how do we not point them with the costs of energy? Idem with industrial cogeneration. [[applause]] For when solutions that allow them to become more profitable to stand still than by producing energy, electricity and near heat? Idem - yes, call me heavy - with closed energy networks for large industrial polygons. [[Applauds]] And, at the height of patience, already almost to declare the catilinary, how long will it have to wait to transpose the Community legislation, already applied in Germany, France, Portugal, that allows local energy communities of sufficient size so that the clean kilowatt hour of zero kilometre is a reality, that patents the democratization of energy, its sustainability and its contribution against global warming? [[Applauds]] In May it was a year since you rejected an amendment from Esquerra to the climate change law to push them forward. What else has to happen to get energy communities going?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u28	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u30	Thank you. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u31	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, that energy is paid at the cost of producing it and at the level of consumption that has been achieved is something that we have been demanding for many years since the United Nations Group. If this does not happen, we have often discussed it in this Chamber in recent months; between the war in Ukraine, the rise in gas prices, the cut-off in Russia's gas supply and the savings proposals we have been discussing on energy for many weeks now, we need a reform of the electricity system, and that is where we have to go, at the root of the problem. Today we still pay the price of cheaper energy than the price of gas, because there is a wholesale market that is the one that determines what the price of megawatt/hour will be. We said at the time - already, if I remember correctly, one or two years ago - that the energy oligopoly was being paid a megawatt/hour produced in hydroelectric power, which costs 3 euros the megawatt/hour, at the price of gas, which was 150 or 200, whatever at each moment. Therefore, as long as this reform of the electricity system is not undertaken, it will be very difficult for a fair situation to really be achieved, which will, of course, also benefit a model based on renewable energy, because it is the renewable sources that produce the cheapest megawatt hour of all the different energy sources. In this sense, the People's Party, which today brings us this proposal for a law under discussion, has consistently done so by defending the interests of oligopoly and opposing any measure that is in line with that reform of the electricity market. The same applies to the imposition of a tax on electricity or any other measure at the time; any measure that benefits consumers and goes against energy oligopoly is opposed by the People's Party. By the way, Mrs Marcos, you have set the example of a farmer who has a self-consumption plant and has taken his hands to his head because he pays less for the kilowattage that is sold to the network than it really costs to produce it. However, the self-consumption - in case you don't remember - was prevented by the People's Party, which established what was called the sun tax. Therefore, if for you it were not even the self-consumption would be in operation. [[Applauds]] Much has been said here about the high price of wheat and the high price of bread. I would like to bring to the House once again a reality that is permanently denied, which is the reality of the impact of climate change on the primary sector, in particular Spain and in general throughout Europe and throughout the world. If we do not take the fight against climate change seriously, if we do not stop the rise in emissions, if we are not able to stop the rise in temperatures, the blow to the primary sector that is currently living will be small compared to what is coming to us. Already the agricultural union COAG established only a few months ago that climate change was causing a cost of 500 million euros to the Spanish primary sector, to the agricultural and livestock sectors. Unfortunately, this estimate by the COAG union has become too small; the economic impact of drought, of high temperatures, is far greater. I think we cannot deny climate change with one hand and, at the same time, say with another that it is about helping the primary sector. No, ladies and gentlemen, no. Either we face climate change firmly and resolutely or everything else is really going to be patchy. Let me tell you that the Government is sensitive to the situation and is preparing a series of policy changes that will be adopted shortly and that would contribute to a significant reduction in the cost of electricity bill also for regents by reducing the cost of additional charges on the bill and giving more weight to the variable part to the detriment of the fixed part. [[The lady]] However, this PP proposal is not acceptable to us, for various reasons which have already been explained here and which I will not reiterate. I just want to end by saying that the alternative is to boost renewable energy. We've been saying it over and over. It is difficult to interpret what the energy model you defend. His party's recent opposition to the royal decree on energy saving is a sign of the lack of direction of its energy policy. In fact, you give energy bandages depending on what your VOX allies do, who have recently had the glorious idea of rescuing a closed nuclear power plant no less than ten years ago. We believe that there are viable alternatives, based, as I say, on renewable energy, and that is why the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Ministry of Agriculture are preparing a next aid line of EUR 30 million to support energy efficiency and self-consumption in farms and in Spanish irrigation. This aid is complementary to the energy efficiency investments to be made in agricultural holdings and in existing irrigations under component 3 of the Spanish Economic Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The energy future, ladies and gentlemen, goes through the momentum of this energy model to reach 100 per cent of renewable energy production, and that is where the government's policies should go. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u32	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u33	Thank you so much. I have to point out to the spokesman for Podemos. He cited VOX's initiatives in Castile and León, but sent him a correction. VOX has not proposed reopening a closed power plant; on the contrary, VOX is studying the construction of two power plants where there was one before. [[Applauds]] So it's possible that the actual VOX proposal likes you a lot less. What VOX is proposing is that two new-cycle modular nuclear power plants be built in the former Garoña site, which would effectively complement or at least partially alleviate the energy disaster that its Government is causing in Spain. [[Applauds]] Today we come here to discuss an initiative proposed by the People's Party, in which it proposes, above all, two measures. For everyone who listens to us to understand it quickly, the first of these measures is to allow consumers with an irregular intensity in the consumption of electric energy to take two contracts, so that the months in which they consume a high intensity of electric power choose one of them and in the months in which they consume less choose this second contract. In this way they would reduce their bill, be more efficient and better adapt their consumption to the bill. The second measure is to create new time zones according to the time of the year, so that restaurants, regalant communities, etc., can again adapt their consumption and make their bill more efficient according to the time zones. The measures are positive, of course. The spirit of the rule, supporting the tourism sector and supporting the Spanish agricultural sector, is positive, and we will therefore support it. However, the measure is totally inadequate. Moreover, some of the criticisms that have been made so far to the People's Party are absolutely opportune, because the energy disaster in which Spain finds itself is, of course, the fault of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, of our fanatical minister, Teresa Ribera, but it is also the fault of the previous governments of the People's Party. And let's explain it very quickly. Both governments, or both parties in their successive governments, have embraced the postulates of the 2030 Agenda. Again, so that those who listen to us understand it and do not let themselves be confused or deceived, for example, by the spokesman of Compromís, who comes here and shouts in a very unpleasant tone, the Agenda 2030 embraced by the People's Party And by the Socialist Party it is the one that has reduced the generation of nuclear energy and the one that has reduced and eliminated the thermal power plants of Spain; moreover, the Socialist Party has physically dynamized several of them. It is they who tax the diesel and are ultimately the ones who have put all the eggs in the same basket, a basket called gas, a basket that today pays the highest prices in history. That is why Spain is paying the highest energy cost in history. VOX proposes that we forget that 2030 Agenda and regain common sense. [[Applauds]] We diversify our options, we divide among all the energy sources we have available, such as nuclear energy, which is much cheaper. Let us think that if today the megawatt hour of gas costs us in Spain 400 euros - in Germany, 1000, by the way - the megawatt hour of nuclear energy costs us 60 euros. That is what the Lords of Podemos hide from our farmers, our tourism sector and the whole industry in Spain: that the policy of the 2030 Agenda is the one that causes these so high energy prices. And that is precisely what does not attack this initiative of the People's Group. [[Applauds]] So that you and all the Spaniards understand what measures we are proposing, we ask the Government and the Lords of Podemos, who are so sure of their measures - in our opinion, suicidal - to consult the Spaniards: farmers, farmers of Spain, do you want to pay those bills four or five times as much as they were paying two years ago? Or do you want to pay a reasonable bill for the energy you consume and need to produce the services? Look at us, look at us! Launch a public consultation; article 92 of the Constitution provides for this. Ask the Spaniards if they prefer their Suicidal Agenda 2030, contrary to the interests of the Spaniards, contrary to the Spanish families and contrary to the Spanish countryside, or if they prefer to use themselves as far as possible and use all available energy sources. And yes, when we are 100% green and we can consume 100% wind or 100% solar energy, let's do it, but until that day comes, please diversify our risks. This is the question you must ask the Spaniards, and this is the voice that you, pampers and socialists, steal from the Spaniards. For this reason, VOX makes a very simple proposal: please return the word to the Spanish so that families, farmers and industry can speak. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Before we start, a preview. Although they already know that I don't like to waste much time talking about VOX or VOX, since Mr Figaredo has talked about nuclear energy, I double the bet: renewables cost less than 30 euros megawatt hour and, by the way, it doesn't take twenty years to build them. And a second thing, they talk about Agenda Spain to counter the Agenda 2030, but change its name and call it Agenda 1950, because that's where they want to take us with it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Marcos, you live against it. A few weeks ago they were talking about a proposal for an energy pact. That's what they called his famous invisible document, a document that on the day Mr. Feijóo presented it was probably little more than a package of recently purchased leaflets with a cover on which they had placed the shield of Spain instead of the PP logo so that it seemed something serious. And it's not that they just go against it, it's that they're simply contradictory. The proposal they bring us today should not seem so important to them when it is not reflected in those fifty-six urgent measures proposed in the document; and they have already had time to write it down. They are also contradictory between you, because today Mrs Ayuso has told you that you do not like your own document at all. Of course, it is normal: some measures are already under way by this Government and others are simply copies of what we have said or proposed at some point, so it must seem very Bolivarian to her for her taste. He told them that they go against it and that they move against it, but against it in the musical sense of the word. Do you know what a setback in music is? It's putting the accent on a time of a compass where it shouldn't be, and that's what you do. They lead us to discuss a bill that they registered two years ago. In terms of energy, after two years - and more at the moment we are living - I would call it parliamentary archaeology, because the world changes much faster than that. Good proof of this is that in the statement of reasons for its proposed law they constantly talk about the COVID pandemic and make reference at all times to the state of alarm, because it was a proposal they raised during the state of alarm and with extraordinary measures for the state of alarm; measures that were, of course, taken at the time by the Government. But they do this constantly, it's out of time. I think they probably called them from Genoa and said, "This week you have to talk about energy anyway. They looked in the drawer and the only thing they found registered in Congress was this, so this is the one I was playing. [[Applauds]] Yes, they're going counter, because they're going countercurrent too. You bet against renewables when they had to be strengthened, completely paralyzed their development and, if you are a leading country in the renewables sector, led us to be the tailcar of the European Union and practically the world for years. In the end, it has ended up proving that this attitude of yours has hurt us greatly, because, when only renewables, infra-marginals, electricity prices break down. We've seen this this week. On Saturday the wholesale price of electricity in Spain was 60 euros megawatt hour, price between five and ten times lower than in the rest of Europe on that day; not five times lower than in Spain, because here we have the Iberian exception no matter how much they complain that it exists. They continue to go against it, because all their proposals are also counterproductive. We'll talk about it if you want, but they're counterproductive. [[Mrs. Marcos Ortega shows a chart]] We speak of the Iberian exception to which so much demonizes and of which Mrs Marcos now teaches me a very beautiful graphic. With this proposal, you focus on the term of power, a term that has little impact on the current bill by eliminating and increasing the fees and regulated costs. However, you say that you want to remove the Iberian exception that is actually generating savings of between 15% and 20% on all the invoices of all consumers. This is how you work: you propose measures that would not make the bill cheaper and, in return, you ask to remove measures that are working. As much as you try to lie or as much as many marketing companies are trying to manipulate information about the Iberian exception, showing a concept on a separate line to make it look like it's a surcharge or'it's a tax when it's really a breakdown, I'll tell you something. You mentioned an invoice from Catalan farmers that I too have seen; indeed, it had an energy cost of 18 cents kilowatt hour -18 cents kilowatt hour was a normal price before all this energy crisis - and there is a compensation, the cost of the gas cap, of another 18 cents kilowatt hour. The sum of the two, if I am not mistaken - it is two plus two -, I get 36 cents kilowatt hour. [[Mrs Marcos Ortega shows a document and pronounces words that are not perceived]] Do you know what the light cost that day without the Iberian exception? It cost 45. [[Applauds]] As much as it is broken down, two plus two are still four. Excuse me, but the Iberian exception is working and that is precisely why the rest of the European countries want to implement a similar measure. It's just that reality is very clumsy, it's very clumsy. If what they propose is to eliminate a measure that is saving real money to families and businesses, who do you want to favor? To those who intend to help when they object to taxing the extraordinary benefits of big energy and banking? You also talked about fuel costs. You voted against the 20 cents discount on fuels. [[Mrs. Marcos Ortega shows a chart]] You have a problem: every time the European Commission makes a decision, as you go against it, it catches you in contraption. You think you have a problem with Europe, but you do not realize that the real problem is you, because every decision the European Union makes gives us a little more reason for us and the government of this country and takes away a little more reason for the opposition of this country, the People's Party. [[applause]] They're getting lonely with their recipes from the past. They live against it and here comes the counterpoint, because I believe that what is at stake now is to counter what you propose and what we do. I really thank Moreno Bonilla for having painted it so clear to us, because what he is going to do is to remove a tax on the 17 000 richest Andalusians so that the rest, the other 8 million Andalusians, can pay it. And in case it wasn't clear, Mrs. Ayuso put it in oil on canvas. He said to the Andalusians, "Welcome to paradise." I guess it means tax haven for all the rich. [[Applauds]] On the one hand, we have his model - and with this I conclude - in which they propose counterproductive measures, made in setbacks and with contradictory speeches, which end up catching up with contrapei, because they strive to swim against the current, benefiting the richest and against the usual ones. And, on the other hand, we have the government's measures, solvents, that work, recognized in Europe as pioneers...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u36	Mr. Renau, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u37	... and that end up being proposed by the rest of the countries. [[Mrs Marcos Ortega shows a document]] Ladies and gentlemen, they really live against it and I regret that you are going to be upset, but you are wrong about this proposal, as always, and we are not going to support your consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. - the Parliamentary Group VOX, ORGANISATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/00167]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u39	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Organic VOX Parliamentary Group for the amendment of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. This proposed law submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group and which I have the honour to defend seeks to amend the Organic Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code, adding a paragraph in article 20.4, in order to ensure full exemption from criminal responsibility when action is taken in self-defence. I think that, as in so many things in life, we could give long explanations, but things are better understood, better understood and, especially in these cases, better empathized if we bring some examples. I have already told you that many of you will know them, but it is difficult to put yourself in the shoes of those who have had to suffer these situations and, moreover, to be fair when it comes to assessing what we would have done if we had found ourselves in the same situation. Here's the thing. The legislators are often told that we are far from reality, that laws are obsolete or that they have never come to understand the reality they seek to regulate. This is one of those cases in which, dramatically, many Spaniards have had to go through situations that were in themselves tragic but that the law has done doubly tragic. But above all - and let me draw your attention to this issue -, tomorrow or past any of you - even those who are distracted looking at the mobile phone or thinking about other things - your parents, grandparents or loved ones might find themselves in this very situation. Then they will ask: how could it have happened to me? How could I be abandoned by the rule of law? This has little to do with political issues of parties, it has to do with issues of common sense and, if I am hastened, of the simplest and most plain sense of justice and equity and equal could be in Spain than in any other country. [[Applauds]] Let's talk about Jacinto's case in a municipality in Tenerife, an 80-year-old man. Two assailants violently entered his house and beat him and his wife with heaviness. They carry sharp carpenter iron forms and a gun-yes, a gun - which was later shown to be a simulated weapon, although I wonder which one of us stands in front of an assailant who carries a gun in his hand and says, "Excuse me, is it true or false?" It was a gun that made this person see that his life depended on his reaction. He was able to reach a closet, pull out a gun for which he had a gun license, give a warning shot to the floor that was not attended by the assailants and shoot at one of them by shooting down. This man, Jacinto, was sentenced to two and a half years for murder and had to pay 20,000 euros in fine. But, look, in the trial itself the other assailant said to questions from the prosecution: For I would have done the same as Jacinto did and, by the way, would not have let any assailant escape if it had been my family that was at risk. Second example. Pepe, seventy-seven years old, in the municipality of Ciudad Real. An assailant about thirty years old carrying a chainsaw in his hand entered his home. We're not talking about the Texas Killing movie, we're talking about a reality, a man who faced a stranger in his own house with a chainsaw in his hand. He managed to reach - of course, prisoner of panic and fear - a closet in which he had a licensed hunting shotgun and managed to shoot down the assailant, thus saving his life. He was charged with murder and went to prison. Let's talk about another case in the Balearics. Pau, aged eighty-two, had to be assaulted in his home by four assailants with an average age of twenty-five who wanted to steal from him. Likewise, this man, who lived in the countryside, after the beating that had struck him and while they were checking the house to find money or some object to steal from him, managed to catch his hunting shotgun and was able to shoot down one of the assailants. This man, Pau, was sentenced to four years in prison for murder and had to compensate the families of the assaulted assailant with more than 100,000 euros. And the last example I bring you is that of a person I could personally meet with his wife in Jaen. He is called Remigio and is seventy years old; she is seventy-eight years old. Two robbers entered his house and beat them to death for which they were hospitalized for more than ten days. His knees were broken with an iron bar. I assure you, my tears fell when they introduced me to that poor old lady with all her arms, all her legs and all her bruised back. They wanted to rob them, but, as Remigio said: If we have nothing! The reality is that he had a shotgun, but it was such a beating that he couldn't even get to the room he was in. He feared for his life and feared for his wife's life and told us that he felt pain because he believed that before her he would be killed. He couldn't take that gun. He did not shoot or shoot any of the assailants and was therefore not prosecuted or convicted. But we have no doubt that if he had been able to exercise the right to self-defence, had he reached the closet, had he taken the weapon and had shot and shot at any of the assailants, he would have been prosecuted and would have been convicted. We could continue to set many other examples, but there are others that I did not want to bring because, unfortunately, the victims of these assaults could not tell them, because they could not reach the closet, because they could not take a gun, because they could not take a knife from the kitchen, because they could not take a vase or a lamp or a shovel from the garden or any element that would have allowed them to save their life. These are the cases of those who suffered assaults on their home and who died murdered at the hands of the assailants. They could not exercise the right to self-defence. We today ask you, under article 17 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to liberty and security of all Spaniards, and article 18.2, which guarantees the right to inviolability of our home, to defend ourselves against those who endanger our lives or that of our relatives, our physical integrity or our property through trespassing or the crime of usurpation. And we ask them to amend and add to the Criminal Code a paragraph in article 20.4 to ensure that there is a security right and effective and a legal presumption that any means used for the self-defence of your home, your family or your life must be considered automatically and by design of the law as a rational, proportionate and necessary means, and that, therefore, the exemption from any liability takes place. [[Applauds]] I will finish my speech with two sentences. One I said in public when I met Remigio and promised - four years ago - that one day we will bring this initiative to this House, to this Congress of Deputies. I said to him: When VOX can, we guarantee the exercise of the right to self-defence with the legally guaranteed exemption of anyone who makes a legitimate use of any instrument with which he can defend — or at least attempt to defend — his life or integrity. And I said to him more: When VOX is in the Government of Spain, not only will they not have to go through the bench, they will not only not be accused, but we will impose a medal on civil merit for helping us fight crime and helping to restore the rule of law. [[Applauds]] I want to end with a phrase that is not mine, it's from a nefarious communist with which we had the misfortune of having to coincide - which I don't say share - in these seats. That communist said repeatedly: Fear is going to change sides. For this initiative seeks that fear changes its side and that older people who are in their homes terrified that one day they may enter someone and put their life or that of their family at risk may have the peace of mind that if the police or the Civil Guard and they have the opportunity to defend themselves, they will never be accused or seated on a bench. And, therefore, those who start to be afraid will be the assailants, who will twice think of entering a house in case they may find themselves stranded or with a brave hero who with a kitchen knife in his hand will face them and do the justice that perhaps the State at that time has not been able to do. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u42	Thank you very much, President. We are debating the proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group to amend one of the requirements set out in the Criminal Code so that self-defence can be seen, which, as is known by its members, is an exempt cause of criminal responsibility that applies when a punishable action is taken to prevent or repel unlawful aggression against a person or his or her rights, whether personal or other. Its assessment requires compliance with a number of requirements, such as the occurrence of an unlawful assault, which does not involve provocation on the part of the defender, the latter does not act solely in an injurious manner and the absence of an exaggerated disproportionate proportion, in accordance with the circumstances of each case, between the aggression and the action necessary to prevent it. It is precisely with regard to this latter requirement, that of the relative proportionality of the defensive response to the aggression, where VOX affects with its initiative in a way that is already advanced that our Basque Parliamentary Group does not share, since what is proposed is to amend the Criminal Code in order to allow the defender to react in any way to the punishable fact he suffers without taking into account the legal limits and relative proportionality required today by article 20, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Code and the jurisprudence. Thus, the Criminal Code and jurisprudence require us that the relationship between aggression and defence should be such that it can always be stated, in accordance with the factual circumstances of each case, that concrete defence action was adequate to prevent concrete action and that there was no excessive disproportionate proportion of the damage caused by the defence to the actual or potential damage of aggression, and, with regard to the means of defence and attack, that there was also a relative proportion between weapons and the manner of use. In short, and colloquially, ladies and gentlemen, there is no requirement for equal results or damage to the defence against the attack, but neither is there any excessive or abysmal disproportion of the defence allowed to repel illegitimate aggression. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, this interpretative work on self-defence, as the Office of the Prosecutor has pointed out, is one of the most complex challenges of criminal law because of its great casuistic nature, since the circumstances of each case are different but in all cases the same must be determined: whether other options were available and whether they could be reasonably chosen, given the circumstances. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Parliamentary Group proposes to change this regulation of self-defence because, in its view, it suffers from a problem of legal definition which makes it alien to the set of values of our society, since it claims that there is in no way any proportionality between the means of defence and its results with regard to aggression; that it be allowed, in the end, to react in any way to the defence in the face of trespassing or the place where commercial, professional or business activity is exercised if there is a risk of aggression. For our part, we do not share that the current regulation of self-defence is alienated from the values of our society, rather I would say that, on the contrary, the idea of proportionality in terms of the manifestation of equity is an imperative of our legal and also of the international regime. Thus, proportionality in the response in any situation and with respect to any public or private legal person must always be maintained, taking into account the circumstances, in relation to the offence, threat or aggression received, and must be caused or at least always attempt to cause the minimum necessary harm. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, criminal law is not built by forgetting the value of the victims, it takes it into account, but it does so in relation to other civil values that have allowed its evolution towards more advanced states, such as the best protection of the general interest and the rationality of the penal system, which have led us, among other things, to a model in European societies with a public monopoly on the use of force, so the defensive use of force by individuals necessarily becomes restrictive. Certainly nothing to do with the model above all American, where it is much more flexible in justifying self-defence and its scope, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is a model with little room in our latitudes, where not everything is worth defending and the excess must be condemned, especially if we take into account that in self-defence the individual is given rights that are not given to the same State, as is the obligation that it always has to respect the principle of exact proportionality in its criminal response. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am finishing, President - as the Office of the Prosecutor has pointed out, the Criminal Code does not have a definitional problem with respect to self-defence, the debate is situated in the circumstances of each case with regard to relative proportionality to the facts and their evidentiary assessment during the trial, without there having to be an exact correlation between defence and the damage that is to be avoided, which implies graduation and flexibility in the trial, since it cannot be subjected to certain rigid rules and much less to the whole value of VOX. For this we have abundant jurisprudence on the limits of the intensity of the response to aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u44	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are in a new example of that little or no confidence that VOX has in our legal system, in the rule of law, in our institutions, in the way those other proposals put to us about the Constitutional Court were. In short, it is the demonstration that with regard to the Judicial Power, VOX, just like Podemos, is really an anti-system party. It happens that what happened a year ago - and Mr. Ortega Smith has said here - is that a gentleman who repelled an assault at his house was put in provisional detention. This is typical of VOX, it only stays with the easy, with what comes, but does not count the detail, of course; in provisional prison, it has nothing to do with self-defence. It happened in Ciudad Real. But, Mr Ortega, what you cannot admit is that you come here and lie. It was very easy to find the case of Jacinto Silverio, you cited it. Jacinto had a sentence of conformity, settled with the most serious accusation for what happened. Do you know what Don Jacinto did when the assailant entered his house? He shot the floor, the bullet bounced and wounded a person. The sentence's overturned. And you know what happened in the next sentence? Have you bothered to read it? The D.A. didn't charge him with murder, he just charged him with illegal possession of weapons. So, what are you talking about? Do you really think I can trust that the rest of the cases you've told here are true when we caught you on this one, when what you've told here is a lie? Lie. Look, the rational necessity of the means employed to repel aggression, the Spanish legal tradition of over a hundred years ago, and jurisprudential interpretation, as Mr Legarda said very well. And you don't want that rationality of the employed medium, that proportionality. For you, anyone can be above the law and can decide about the life or death of their fellow men without police control and without judicial control. You say this explicitly in your explanatory statement: 'We do not like this sentence, which turns out that what you have done has been to put a person in prison whom we believe should not be in prison'. Well, there'll be resources for this person. Are you guys really saying this? Do you suspect the judiciary? Do they deny the truth, the judgmental thing of court sentences? Do they do the same thing we can do when we can be sentenced against? Do you turn the citizen into a judge and God over the lives of others? His law is called Lynch's law, that of lynching in the far west. And on top of that, it's the same thing that Sanchez or Yolanda Díaz do when they want to raise the interprofessional minimum wage. Pure punitive populism in front of our Spanish legal tradition. Today we are going to listen here to these kinds of speeches that try to take advantage, on the right and on the left, of the fear of people and, above all, to interfere with the forces and bodies of State security and with the judiciary. In Citizens we say that against populism is the right; in Citizens we say that before demagogy is the law and only the law, not the law of the jungle, not the law of the strongest, which is what you want. There is already self-defence, incomplete self-defence and even one thing that you have certainly not studied even in the race, which is called putative self-defence, one in which one does not give one of the requirements and yet self-defence is fully exonerative. This is the case brought by the State Attorney's Office in which they defend a policeman who enters a portal that is dark, some junkies threaten him with a syringe, the policeman pulls out the gun and kills him. It's self-defence, since we're dealing with the cases that you like so much, self-defence. And see how the proportionality between the media was not accurate, it was not complete, but self-defence was declared. Why? Look, because there is a judge who examines that the light is faint; who examines that the trajectory of the bullet is from below; who examines that the bullet is less than 50 centimeters from the shot, with which there is a body to body. Of course, those things that judges do that seem to you not to like: that they examine specific cases, that they apply it to the law, not that you do in your homes what you want arbitrarily, deciding on the lives of others. In our literature we have a well-known character who sickened by reading cavalry books, you have sickened by watching too many movies from the west. Look, if a person escapes his dog and enters another person's house or a child falls off the ball and enters another person's house, do you see him caressing the butt of his revolvers, pulling the striker and deciding on the life and death of this person? If a rat comes in through an open window and tries to take what's on the kitchen table, can you repel that real assault with a gun that you get legally? [[Rumors]] Because this is what your law allows. Don't make me look like you don't know anything about this, because this can happen to your law. But is it that even in serious cases of octopus, is it really a property offence that can be answered with an attack on the life of the offender? But what country do you want? Do you think Spain would be a safer place with this law? Do you really believe that in our country crime would fall with this law? Who would control that these weapons do not leave home and that massacres do not occur as they occur in the United States? Do you want this country?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I don't want this country for my children! That's what I'm telling you clearly. Moreover, you are not original, copy Salvini's reform in Italy in 2019, his friend Salvini, who is Putin's friend - we already know that friends of friends are friends -. Has the crime gone down in Italy? No! No! What happened? The desire to have weapons has risen from 26 % to 40 % in the Italian population, which is what it is all about. Here Santiago Abascal and Jorge Buxade have publicly defended the right to have arms, eye!, only the Spaniards of well-these gentlemen distribute meat from those who are good and those who are bad - but it is that Pablo Iglesias in La Tuerka has also claimed the right to bear arms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u45	Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u46	I'm done, President. The real ends are touched. Stop watching movies from the west or watch them just for fun, what I do. And with regard to criminal law, in an advanced democratic society like ours, leave us to those who believe in the rule of law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u48	Thank you, Madam President. We have just heard from the rostrum an arenga of his gunman Smith, of this gentleman who, being a deputy, shoots himself with an assault rifle at an army base. It defends a proposal which seeks to amend the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code, which includes the possibility of exempting from criminal responsibility those persons who, having committed an anti-judicial act, have done so in self-defence, and which should be accompanied by the unlawful act of aggression being repelled, the rationality of the means employed and the lack of provocation on the part of the defender. What the ultra-right proposes is to reform the requirements so that any defence, regardless of its proportionality, can be considered legitimate and be exempt from liability when it is carried out to safeguard the dwelling. Allowing this reform would open the door to encouraging the response with the maximum possible violence in all circumstances and regardless of the degree of danger it poses. If the legislation provides that entry into a home or premises must be punishable by itself, it cannot justify the need to assault or take the life of the assailant. To consider that any break-in is in itself dangerous to the lives of the people living there has no legal basis. If this proposal were really based on legal criteria, we could argue that this rationality of the medium employed should be assessed on a case-by-case basis and decide whether the response is consistent with the illegitimate attack. But the problem is that this proposal seeks to consider it legitimate to take every occupant's life, even unarmed and not threatening. And why? Clearly because the proposal is not about seeking greater legal effectiveness, nor is it about the ultra bench having seen many American thrillers and wanting to emulate the model. We are in front of a political proposal that is based on exploiting the lowest human impulses for its interests and objectives, on exalting violence and the use of weapons and on sublimating private property above all else, including human life. I mean, it's pure fascism, and to that the BNG says no, we always said no and we'll keep saying no. Not fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u49	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u50	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed law that VOX presents at this turn also points with this defense of the abode to a question that I believe is at the bottom of the proposal, which is the issue of the octopus. PeCAT has been a strong defender of property and we say that when we defend property we defend it in relation to illegal occupations, of which we have caused; as well as seeking secure rents; as we also defend property by wanting to remove inheritance tax or property tax. Defending property has many faces, it is a polyhedral figure, and no doubt in the defense of property must also take into account - we always say - cases of social vulnerability, which we also say whenever it is not that they are the responsibility of the middle class, but that they are the responsibility of public administrations. Therefore, in the debate of property, of the okupations, we have a firm speech, a clear speech and a speech that leaves no doubt that there is a whole group of measures, such as the modification of the legitimation of the presidents of communities of owners to defend illegal occupations, the amendment of the Criminal Prosecution Act, the amendment of the Local Regime Bases Act, which focuses on what are the ideal solutions in the field of illegal occupations. VOX makes the triple mortal leap, and in today's proposition we no longer go only to the optupations, but we go to the defense from within the home, from within the dwelling, from within the property. And when I say that it makes this triple mortal leap is that it passes from the proportionality model in self-defence as it is configured historically and with long tradition in criminal law to the trumpet free-bar model in self-defence. We see no need to reconfigure this figure, and even less so under these terms in which there is a law of the eye for the eye, of self-defence without any limit, and which totally breaks the current model of self-defence. It is possible to defend the property without moving along these paths to which Mr Smith condemned us, and without a doubt it is not necessary to make this 180th turn based solely on the commitment to look for those anecdotes that make his speech credible, those particular unfortunate cases that allow to articulate a story, but that do not cease to be particular cases that deserve a profound analysis such as the one that the proposer has not made at any time, and in any case the legislative amendment has to obey to change the reality to make it better and not to the hot reaction to unfortunate cases. For all this, we understand that we cannot give any kind of support to the proposal that is being put forward, and this is not at any time contrary to continuing to exercise firmly the defence of the property and the defence of the people, but before the defence of the property and the defence of the people is, without a doubt, the defence of a democratic system, the defence of a state of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u52	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are here once again in this House, where your ladies and gentlemen from VOX come again to entangle, manipulate, lack the truth, and present a legislative amendment to the Criminal Code on self-defence when self-defence already exists in our country in article 20.4 of the Criminal Code, I remind you. With this proposal follow the wake of their references, such as Salvini, Trump or their mentor Bannon, and I remind you that since 2019 they have been masking with self-defense that real debate that they would like to have, what is that of the legalization of weapons, they have done in interviews on their official social networks and today in Congress. And he comes casually to defend this proposal, Mr. Ortega Smith, whom I remind you that we were able to see him shot with a rifle. To be honest, it does not give us much confidence that it is Mr Ortega Smith who comes to defend this proposal. [[Applauds]] His model, the one of 'defend whoever he can', not the one of self-defence - as he says - is that all defence is legitimate. Here they come to deceive people and to do what they best know how to do, which is de-ma-go-gia, which is what they always do. And since their ultimate goal can't be confessed, they're leaning on self-defense. Let us be clear, its objective is for the State to authorize weapons; its objective is to militarize the security of large companies and fortunes and, consequently, the disappearance of State security forces and bodies; its model is for citizens to carry a rifle to shoot at their discretion. His proposal was absolutely unacceptable in a rule of law. To begin with, you are eliminating the power of judges to interpret and apply criminal law by assuming in any case, as you wish, that exemption from liability of anyone who directly appeals to self-defence without taking into account competing circumstances and thus leaving broad margins for conduct that can in no way go unpunished. In addition, the proposed law that they bring suffers from the same problem as the Salvini law, it seems that they are calculated. The National Association of Italian Magistrates and Judges has already warned about the limitation of judicial authority with this law, and also that it is a law that has not at all guaranteed the reduction of crime rates. We citizens of this country pay our taxes to have state security forces and bodies to protect us, with their proposal we would have to be the citizens themselves who would have to guarantee our own security. Instead of a safer country, its proposal is a society that becomes a jungle. They want to eliminate the criterion of proportionality, which is an absolute barbarity, and they add some assumptions that create a great deal of confusion at the legal level: it refers not only to the dwelling, but also to the place where commercial, professional, business activity is exercised; that is, that in addition to being outside the rule of law, this proposal for a law which they present, at the legal level, speaking vulgarly, is a picture. We have to work harder, because defencelessness is absolute on the ground. And to see if they understand it, citizens are neither physically nor psychologically nor technically prepared, and it is very dangerous to put at risk their own life, that of the family or that of the workers, according to the law you propose. As I said, they send the message that the state's security forces and bodies are indispensible. But I will tell you one thing: in a guaranteed democracy the police, the Civil Guard and the rest of the security forces are the ones who are legitimized by the state to act, in accordance with law, with the tools, the legislation and the necessary training to carry out their task in the most efficient way. [[The lady]] This model that they defend already exists in the United States, we know it, and it has shown that it is a failed society in terms of security: massacres in schools, multiple murders in universities, institutes, shopping centers, work centers. You want us, like Donald Trump, to have a gun in the nightstand so you can kill at your discretion. Moreover, in their model of society there is no law or justice, but brute force, hatred and eye for eye, tooth for tooth. Its model of society, moreover, is not that of democracy, but that of the National Rifle Association of the United States, and thus convert Seville or Madrid into the streets of Chicago or New York; that there be thugs in the neighborhoods taking justice by their hand and with impunity, instead of police and civilian guards. Its model is called 59 homicides per day; 21 500 homicides in 2020, which grew by 5% from 2019 to 2020; the homicide rate in the United States is almost seven times higher than in countries such as France, Germany or our country, which is one of the safest in the world and with the lowest homicide rate. Firearms death is, as I recall, the leading cause of death in under eighteen years of age in the United States. Is that what you want for the young people of our country, for our children, for our grandchildren?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] Is that what you want, that we have the highest homicide rate of young people under the age of eighteen, and that you kill them in college, in your jobs, in schools? Do you know who are the only ones who win with their model of 'defend who can'? The lobbies, the big companies, the arms industry. You want to push the simple people to kill themselves with the sole objective of fattening the accounts of the powerful; nothing like this explains their idea. In the United States more than 20,000 firearms were sold in the past year; the average for each American is one or two firearms; and in a decade this industry, to which its proposal is directed, has grown by 22%. To conclude, this is very easy, here are two models of society: one, in which we are here, in a state of law; and another, yours, which is the law of the jungle. We advocate that education in young people, more scholarships, lower rent prices, reduce inequality, more and better jobs and more decent wages, and that it is good for our businesses so that our young people can have access to work. Its model is to save the arms industry, the militarization of citizenship and the militarization of death.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u53	You have to finish, Mrs. Velarde.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u54	I'm on my way. His model is to sow fear to collect hatred, and we're not going to allow it today. So we are going to vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u55	Mr Jerez Juan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for a radical and urgent change in the law so that the good Spaniards can have a weapon at home. So convinced and hasty Santiago Abascal introduced the debate on the standardization of firearms in Spain. Their intention is to make them a more legitimate means of reaction to possible illegitimate aggression. Well, that radical and urgent proposal comes to Congress today and makes it supported by demotivations that for us are not enough reason to support it. First, it is enough to remember how Santiago Abascal celebrated with fervor and enthusiasm the approval of a project promoted by Matteo Salvini, which popularized the use of firearms in Italy. And what doubt is there that between the policies of Matteo Salvini and those of Santiago Abascal there are many common patterns, but neither Spain is Italy nor vice versa. Secondly, VOX used as an example specific, isolated cases to try to raise the use of firearms to the standard category. Well, I'm sorry to tell you that it will not be us who, with our vote, will legitimize the political polemics developed in Italy by Matteo Salvini. I regret to say that we will not make our own the same reasons that led Italy to become a place where firearms are going to have more and more social penetration, among other things, because Spain remains a safe country, still too safe to keep guns in the night tables. And much less we will be the ones who support a transformation of the Penal Code into a hot one, legislating from exceptionality and particularity, from guts, viscera and improvisation. The criminal figure of self-defence may be complex; it is, but each case is different. It is full of nuances, and it is up to justice to judge the facts, circumstances and consequences of each. It is for the judges to determine precisely when the budgets are met to conclude that someone has acted in self-defence and when their acts are not provided to rule out the exemption of self-defence. In our view, what VOX proposes has nothing to do with that proportionality that must exist when using that defensive reaction. The intentionality of VOX, the pretext that VOX seeks is to extend the use of firearms and release from criminal responsibility always to anyone who shoots, with or without the result of death, whatever the threat, whatever the risk. But VOX's intention goes beyond that: it envisages vetoing the judge's ability to interpret and apply the right to decide whether to absolve or condemn. Certainly, the judge, with this reform, is denied the possibility of taking into account all the competing circumstances and, above all, is denied any judgment on the proportionality of the reaction when it occurs. And it is that the literal wording of your proposal leaves no doubt. It goes so far as to say that any means employed for the defence of property or against the danger of aggression regardless of the result caused shall be considered legitimate. Let it be clear, Mr Smith, that we do not dispute that we cannot use a weapon to operate the self-defence exemption; neither do we nor do we discuss it in case law. Of course the reaction to an assault using a shotgun could be legitimate, but no less obvious is that the consequences of the use of the shotgun must be subject to proportionality, they must be subject to judicial control in order for that exemption to operate. If that were not the case, we would not only reverse the essence of the Penal Code, but would trample on the guarantees offered by our rule of law; if that were not the case, the law of the strongest would prevail. That said, therefore, we believe that the doctrine and jurisprudence followed by the Supreme Court are entirely correct. In this regard, it is relevant to invoke what it says in its judgment 13755/94. It says: There is, in principle, no disproportion for the use of the firearm in front of a rigid bar of iron decidedly softened by a man of thirty-three years, excited and aggressively eager. More than twenty-eight years have passed since the Supreme Court declared the inadmissibility of firearms as a means of defensive reaction. However, the defensive reaction, I insist, must always be proportionate. For more than twenty-eight years the case law has been ruling on the compatibility of the use of firearms with a situation of obvious risk, and it does so by assessing each specific case, and that is where we will continue to be: in the defense of the postulates of reason, law and justice. We can certainly agree that self-defence is a very difficult cause of exemption to prove and that for courts and tribunals it is a very complex interpretative task. We can agree that the limits of justification and exculpation are extremely difficult to determine and we could even accept that self-defence deserves a broader interpretation than the current one, which protects situations of invincible or irremediably exempt fear, situations that contemplate a spontaneous reaction motivated by instincts of protection of the family environment or motivated by the insurmountable belief of illegitimate interference and interpreting that it is intended to offend life. However, we are not going to accept your proposal, as it constitutes an unacceptable position from the perspective of the principle of proportionality of the legal assets to be protected; we are not going to accept it because it deserves the debate of self-defence more wide-ranging views, and we are not going to accept it because the debate on self-defence cannot be addressed alone and exclusively by legitimizing the use of firearms in an absolute and unconditional manner. This is not the only way, Mr. Smith. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u57	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Araujo Morales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u58	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are presenting a proposal for a law that seeks to amend the Criminal Code in its article 20.4, but this has not been the only amendment to the Criminal Code that you have raised in this legislature. They have raised one in relation to crimes of assault, resistance and disobedience to authority; another on the aggravating of multirecidence in the petty crime of theft; another to amend the 245, in order to aggravate the penalties in crimes of usurpation of immovable property; and, finally, another on constitutional disloyalty. You therefore intend to amend this rule. This is just a sample of the changes that have been made to the Penal Code to show that they are tougher and firmer than any other political party, which has often - it has been said from this rostrum - has been referred to as punitive populism, that is to say, to implement in the citizenry a narrative full of emotional dyes - which is what you have done today, Mr Ortega Smith - that places the popular will above the laws, institutions or the system of government. They seek in a transparent and clear way to deceive citizens, bringing about legal changes that come to violate our rule of law, to make them believe that this is how their problems are solved. This is the case with the proposed law that they bring to amend article 20, raising an exemption that we will now consider. The less curious is the wording given to this initiative in the explanatory statement. You start by saying: Sometimes it has been said that criminal law is not built for heroes. This sentence is extracted from a judgment mentioned by the Supreme Court of 3 April 1992, which absolves - listen to me very carefully, Mr. Ortega Smith - a man who shot another person who wanted to enter his bar and absolves him for running the self-defence exemption. Therefore justice acted and, with the tools in hand offered by our Penal Code, applied it, and very correctly. But you do not tell the truth of this sentence, but you intend to go a step further; you intend to show that this amendment is not protecting the victim, that in this case it was the gentleman who defended his bar and his family. You raise a new paragraph, incorporating a new exemption, which says: 'rational need of the means employed to prevent or repel it. The existence of the rational necessity of the medium employed shall be presumed when, in the case of defence of the dwelling or its units or, if there is a danger of aggression, of the place where commercial, professional or business activity is exercised...' And it says:..., and regardless of the result caused, any means of defence, provided that, in the cases required, the mandatory authorization of the competent administration is available. With any means of defence authorized by the Administration. What are you talking about? A gun, a machete, a self-defense spray? Because you will understand that they require the same authorization a short gun or a shotgun as a self-defense spray, and you will understand that it is not the same to repel an attempt to break in with a spray than with a shotgun. But I'm going too far, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. You say: regardless of the result caused. I mean, it's the same thing to cause an irritation in the eyes as a shot in the head. This would cause that if you were ruling - which, fortunately, would not - we would stand before the model of the United States, where anyone can carry a weapon. In fact, in the United States, of the 43,200 recorded cases of death, only 1,200 were classified as justifiable homicide, that is, one in every thirty-five. One more fact: firearms became the leading cause of death among minors in the United States; in particular, 4368 children and adolescents up to the age of nineteen died from gunshots in 2020. According to the data from the control center, car accidents went into the background. You argue that, once the fact has been committed, we will already examine whether the alleged aggressor really intended to break in or was simply wrong about the door. Imagine if the one who knocks on the door is Mr. Casero; he would no longer be among us. [[Applauds]] Or figure out if we're on a party night and I think I'm getting into what my house is. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, don't you realize how ridiculous you are? Seriously, don't you realize? Don't you realize that changes to the Penal Code are being invented to make you believe that they are the hard ones of Spanish politics and are becoming the macaras of this Congress; that as long as you give an image of thugs, they want to confuse the citizen and they are inventing rules; that our Penal Code already collects that exemption and it is not necessary to authorize anything carrying a weapon; that they no longer have credibility in the citizenry? [[rumors]] For making more proposals, they are no longer Spanish, and they are being left alone, as I only hope they will remain in that proposal. This weekend our dear Luis García Montero said, in his 'Free Way', rereading Maria Zambrano, that it is necessary to watch the patriots working to destroy their homeland, that rhetoric of nationalism that becomes a harmful way of losing respect for the democratic sense of belonging and the need to live together. The Spaniards used to be fascists, and their membership in Spain was conditioned. We - María Zambrano said - belong to the Spanish people and are united to their fate and future unconditionally because we love him and this love gives us hope in his decisions. Apply. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u59	Thank you very much. [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina asks for the floor]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u60	Madam President, thank you very much. I am asking for the floor under article 71 in connection with article 72, for a serious offence against a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u61	Cite and sew words that you feel have affected you. Intercommissioned, please, the concrete allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u62	Of course. The deputy of the Galician separatist bloc said,'Gunman Smith', and I think it is intolerable.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u63	Thank you. Don't make any comments. Mr Rego is not here right now. The Bureau will send you the allusion you intend, I suppose, to remove from the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u64	But I'd like to...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u65	Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u66	But I have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u67	No, he can't intervene. He cites the specific allusion, the intercomilla and we will comment on it to Mr Rego. [[Rumors.-Protests.-A lady MEP: The Rules of Procedure]] He makes a specific reference to his withdrawal from the Journal of Sessions and will be discussed with the Member to whom you have referred. Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. [[Protests.-Mr Ortega Smith-Molina: The Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u68	I've got a minute to talk.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u69	No, no, [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u70	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. [[Rumors]] We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group, concerning the adoption of measures for the defence of the right to education in Spanish. [[Rumors]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Trias Gil has the floor. [[Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u71	Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u72	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Here we are once again defending something that the Spaniards in normal circumstances, in a normal country, should not claim, something as elementary and as common sense as the defense of the right to education in Spanish in any corner of our nation. Let's start by remembering the obvious. One: Catalans are Spanish, as are Galicians, Asturians, Valencians, Basques, Mallorcans, Andalusians, Castilanoleans. Two: The common language of all Spaniards is Spanish. Three: According to the Constitution, all Spaniards have the right and duty to know Spanish. For this reason, any family that wants to be able to school their children in Spanish must be able to do so and the State must guarantee this essential right of every Spanish resident. [[Applauds]] It is not normal that, in order to achieve schooling in Spanish in Catalonia, it is necessary to go through a crossroad of demands and judgments, which, unfortunately, are not fulfilled, precisely because the Government of the Generality, supported by the Social-Communist Government of Pedro Sánchez, invites systematic disobedience through autonomous laws and decrees that impose Catalan to the detriment of Spanish and which, by the way, we have recently appealed to the Constitutional Court. In Catalonia there is not a single public centre to study in Spanish. If anyone wants to get it, they have to pay. Says a father: He paid 10,000 euros for my children to study in Spanish. It was the only way out that left him in the face of harassment and toppling that his two children were suffering every day. Or the father of the daughter of Canet, who explains to us: Up to fifteen families in school were interested in claiming their own children's right to education in Castilian, but they all ended up giving up. Some preferred to save themselves problems or reproaches from their neighbors and acquaintances; others worked in the Administration and feared consequences, and some even recognized that they were afraid. They were left alone. Loneliness, abandonment and defencelessness, far removed from the linguistic cordiality of which Feijóo is famous. In fact, in Catalonia the course has begun with a totalitarian campaign against children who speak Spanish in the courtyards of Catalan schools and language commissioners are expected to be present in these areas. It is irresponsible and can be offensive to speak - as Mr Feijóo does - of moderation, serenity, centrality and even linguistic cordiality, when the reality that thousands of Spaniards live is of linguistic oppression. [[Applauds]] In Valencia, a music teacher with thirty-five years of professional practice is fired for not knowing the Valencian, or some parents have to report to the teacher who tells her daughter that she will lower her grade if she does homework or exams in Spanish. The new Basque education law proposes Basque as the central axis of education, with the approval of the PSOE, of course. In Asturias, the People's Party supports a PSOE motion to grant job privileges to those who know the invention of language. Baleares follows the steps of Catalonia and no public school there will apply 25% in Spanish. In Galicia, ruled until a few months ago by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, teachers are forbidden communications in Spanish, access to the Public Service is discriminated against on the grounds of language and the only official form of toponyms is in Galician, among other things. Just last Sunday, at the call in Barcelona for the School of All, we were supporting the Catalans who are suffering the most, who see their most elementary rights trampled, because they do not have the right to school their children in their mother tongue, which is also the official language of the Spanish and the official language of the State. Also, along with thousands of people, we went to the tents of Spoken Spanish in fourteen cities and in autonomous communities where the right to school children in Spanish is violated. It was a new sign of hope. Regrettably, however, the fruit that this may bear in a Catalonia that has been making steady progress for forty years to break Spain, with successive governments of the nation making divestitures of the various separatist governments, is very weak. That is why today, once again, we call for the application of Article 155 in a lasting and sustained way over time, so that it restores legality in a definitive and effective way in Catalonia and guarantees the rights and freedoms of all Catalans who are trampled on today, such as the right to education in freedom and in Spanish. [[applause]] The Government of the Generality has taken over the institutions with the complicity of the Government and intends to go beyond the laws and the Constitution, above coexistence and respect for court judgements. We call for support from all parliamentary groups and, in particular, a leap of courage to the People's Party, which every time we propose the application of Article 155, which is the only effective constitutional measure to preserve the fundamental rights of Catalans, is to propose, at best, an amendment abolishing the application of this Article. Article 155, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely a valuable tool that gives us the Constitution to correct cases of rebellion such as the one perpetrated by the Government of the Generality. All of you recognize that the language is being used as a political weapon of separatism in Spain, to divide us Spanish into something that keeps us united, which is the language, not only within Spain, but with millions of Spanish speakers all over the world. We live in a kind of reverse world, where our main heritage is dilapidated and despised, which is the language that unites us. Let us not forget that this is not an exclusive problem of Catalonia and comes from the linguistic policies of the different autonomous communities with co-official language, which, by the way, pushed the People's Party - Balearics, Galicia - and therefore affects us all the Spaniards who want to reside or move through any of our autonomous communities. It's very worrying that many people are following the trail...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u73	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u74	I'm finishing up. ...of the false success of the linguistic immersion achieved in Catalonia, which is nothing more than a deception, a stupendous failure, an attack on freedom of education and a long history of imposition, harassment, markings and exiles. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u75	Thank you. Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa spoke in defence of the amendments made by his groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. What is happening with linguistic rights in Catalonia is nothing new. And take a good look at what I'm saying: with linguistic rights and not with language. The separatists, the socialists, always using an argumentative fallacy, machaconically repeat an obviousness that today is true and that we will probably hear here also today: that in Catalonia Catalan citizens have no problem with the language and that there is no conflict of coexistence between the Spanish-speaking and Catalan-speaking people. Indeed, of course it is. To the use of this false counter-argument has always been added the Socialist Party and, unfortunately, it seems that the People's Party has also recently joined. That has one explanation: the PSC is a nationalist party, Mr Feijóo is a nationalist and tends to agree on that argument. No, the problem is not of languages, but of rights, and the reality is that the rights of those who have Spanish as their mother tongue have been and are systematically violated by nationalists and separatists, supported by socialists; I hope not by the people, but I have very little hope. Supposedly, both Catalan and Spanish are co-official languages of Catalonia, and their speakers, supposedly, are on the legal footing of their linguistic rights. Well, nowadays you can open a business in Catalonia and advertise your services only in Catalan without any problem, as it should be, but it doesn't happen the same if you want to do it only in Spanish, because that carries a penalty: rights. Nowadays any citizen of Catalonia, as a Spanish citizen, can choose to occupy a position in the State Administration or other communities without any obstacles except his knowledge, but it does not happen the same if a Spanish citizen of another autonomous community wishes to choose a place of the Catalan Administration, being an optional requirement the accreditation of the Catalan, however much the job does not require that competence: rights. Today all the citizens of Catalonia must contribute to the financing of Catalan public television, but that public television exclusively carries out in Catalan all its broadcasts and programmes: rights. There is no problem on the street of languages, there is a problem of rights, of citizens being trampled on by the Catalan administration, governed by the Republican Left and before by others, always helped by the Socialist Party and intermittently by the People's Party. And we could quote more. The most serious and well-known case is that of education. Children whose mother tongue is Catalan are guaranteed to study in their mother tongue, and must be so; Spanish speaking children, on the other hand, cannot do so. When some parents, risking harassment and stigmatization, decided to demand the right to justice, they recognized it, but the nationalists and the PSC, as a natural ally that it is, agreed. For what? To abolish a right recognized by the courts, a right recognized after a court ruling. That is your contribution to this matter. A right, moreover - and this is very important - that goes against no one, because all the citizens of Catalonia should be able to receive education in their mother tongue, whether Catalan or Spanish. The Catalan speakers and the Spanish speakers in the same classroom, because we will hear again about segregation, that what you are looking for... No, lie, lie. This is not against anyone; you are against the rights of many citizens. In addition, a third foreign vehicle language, which is the model that most Catalans want, should be incorporated. Now go out and make your usual arguments. Look, beyond colors and political parties, this is no longer going backwards. Catalan society, in this matter, has awakened, and as much as they want to silence it, they will not be able, simply for a very logical question, because this is common sense, I repeat, common sense. You, nationalists, socialists, the Popular Party of Feijóo, continue to show that nothing happens or that it is not so much, but some will continue to ask that the rights of those who want to be respected, I repeat, the only thing they want to be able to study in their language, because they pay just like all the others their taxes. Rights, if they are not respected, are imposed by democratic laws by governments, which is what you should do, or by the courts when you do not. That's what's going to happen, whether you like it or not. It is not surprising that this happens with the Socialist Party in the Government; it is surprising that sometimes, when it is the People's Party that is in the Government, the same continues to happen. Mr Feijóo defends a cordial Catalanism. Of course, we must be cordial with everyone, but cordiality is not submission, we must not tolerate everything. This is not a linguistic matter, it is a matter of rights, and we do not tolerate our rights being violated.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u77	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u78	I'm done right now, President. What Spain needs is not to re-edit the Covenant of the Majestic, but a project that defends a country of free and equal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u79	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Clavell López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX and Citizens, you are once again mistaken as an enemy, and I will show you why. The supremacism, even racial, defended by Catalan independenceists is not a thing of the past, but is very topical. Heribert Barrera, ex-Leader of the Republican Left of Catalonia, held - in between-: 'Blacks have a lower intelligence. The mentally weak of genetic origin should be sterilized.' Anna Erra, from Junts per Cat, referred to the differentiated physical aspect of Catalans. Jordi Pujol said that Andalusian is a lowly man, who lives in a state of ignorance and cultural misery. What do you think of these statements, your Socialist ladies and gentlemen, in Andalusia? His wife, Marta Ferrusola, claimed that her children did not play in the park because it was full of Spanish. Of course, now we know what their children were doing. [[Applauds]] Núria de Gispert, an expression of the Catalan Parliament, invited Catalan politicians born in other provinces to return to their people. Dolors Bassa, you know her well, former Generalitat advisor, about a question about the situation of street children who inhale glue in Catalonia, answered: Ask your colleagues in Andalusia why they send these children to Catalonia. Socialists, what do you think of all this? Joan Oliver, former director of TV3, eye, argued that the Spaniards are chorizos because of being Spanish. If so, how much Spanishness the Pujol family overflows. Quim Torra, former president of the Generalitat, referred to those who lived in Catalonia and did not speak Catalan, such as carrots, vipers, birds and beasts with human form. I am not going to continue to delight them with these linguistic, cultural or philosophical features, typical of the Nazi movement and used today by Catalan independence. We're not surprised anymore. We know what they really are; they are the heirs of those totalitarian movements that impose a single language, a single thought and a single way of life, and all the others we hinder. But, as I told you, I am not going to lose a second more in those who already know what role they have here, which is nothing other than to end the rights and freedoms of citizens who do not think like them. [[Applauds]] I intend to address you, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party or, rather, what is left of it. On Sunday, I took part in Barcelona, together with many comrades of the Popular Party, in the demonstration that called different collectives to ask for Spanish to be a vehicle language in Catalonia. What a fear, what a dare. And where were you hall socialists? I am sure that, among the people who came to claim their rights, there were PSC voters, voters who feel betrayed, political party orphans, people who have seen that the party they have voted for throughout their lives has abandoned them. Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which has lost that and its acronyms along the way, a party that leaves citizens unprotected, only to maintain its survival and not to anger its partners. Socialist Party, which came to rescue people, to place them at the centre of their policies, and has forsaken them. Socialist Party to which it is only concerned to keep its seats warm, continue to increase grateful stomachs and create a battalion of paniaguados willing to sell their principles to the highest bidder. [[Applauds]] Socialist Party, which does not care at all to change the legislation so as not to apply the judicial sentences, such as Law 8/2022, of the Parliament of Catalonia. Socialist Party which advocates the creation of a language police, which controls children in all areas of the centre, in the classrooms, courtyard and dining room, violating fundamental rights against discrimination. Socialist Party that will mark children who speak Spanish. Socialist Party that trades with the rights and freedoms of citizens as if it were a souk. Socialist Party that sacrifices the vehicles of the Castilian simply for Pedro Sánchez to continue for a few more months in the Moncloa. Socialist Party that has exterminated linguistic coexistence in Catalonia. In short, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, you have renounced the fulfillment of the magna charter that has given us the best decades of our history. I can't imagine what those transitional socialists would think or think. It remains that you are not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u81	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u82	It's over, President. They will do nothing to defend those citizens who went out on Sundays, or those who stayed at home for fear of reprisals. Therefore, in the face of the inaction of the Sánchez Government, very soon the People's Party, as the Government of the nation, will be the guarantor of these rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u83	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u84	For all this, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen of VOX and Citizens, who are the enemies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u85	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The other day Mr. Rufián said that people from other parts of Spain had gone to tell the Catalans what they had to do. I feel affected because I was one of the ones who was there. To see if it now turns out that Mr Rufián and his friends can go to Pamplona to protest against the self-government of Navarre, in the Aberri Eguna, with his colleagues in Bildu, and to say that all the Navarros we have to be part, as one more province, of the Basque Autonomous Community, and I will not be able to go to Barcelona to defend those who defend Spanish as a vehicle language. [[Applauds]] That's how far we could go. It was just missing! I know you're very angry with freedom, but man, at least hide a little. I saw in that demonstration - in the end you can go and talk to a lot of people there, it's an opportunity - many families who were outraged to see how the separatist elites of Catalonia took their children to trilingual schools and they couldn't afford it because they don't have enough money and they have to choose the education that you force them to choose. That's what I saw there. You usually say here that Spanish doesn't need to be protected by anyone because it's a very strong language. Obviously, he's right. If so, if you are so sure of the success of your policies, why are you so afraid that people will choose to be free? Why do you keep them from choosing the education they want? Why? That's the question. Let them, if it's three, let it be three. That's the fear they have: if they let people choose, people choose what you don't want. We have seen this these days, for example, in the Basque Autonomous Community with a driving licence, that when they are given to choose the language - I do not know the data of Catalonia, I know the data of the Basque Autonomous Community - and they are told that they can do the card in Basque, for example, they do not reach 2%. It is that there are provinces in which more people are examined in English than in Basque to get their driver's license and, that, subsidized by the Basque Government. [[Applauds]] You are afraid of freedom, of people choosing. You want to impose and tell them what to do. Leave families free to choose the school model of their children, and we will see what data these results would yield. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u87	Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u88	Thank you, President. The truth is that Sunday's demonstration was not in favour of the Castilian, but against the Catalan. [[Rumors and Protests]] Yeah, yeah, listen up. [[Applauds]] Its bilingualism is not an equitable bilingualism that pretends that the two languages are known, used, but a totally asymmetric bilingualism, based on the existence of a first language and a second language: one, without which you cannot live in Catalonia but have to always use it, you have to learn it, and another, which is totally indispensable. Catalan, for example, for the doctor, is not necessary; to be an official, it is not necessary; for television platforms, it is not necessary; in Congress, it is not necessary. That, first languages and second languages, and we don't want it, we don't accept it and we won't give up. I'll show you what the real face of your bilingualism is. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Mr. Sáez Alonso-Muñumer hits his seat.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u89	One second, Your Honor. Mr. Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, you're not in school. Don't hit the bench, okay? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I would ask you, please, to continue as well as you already know - not the first time - so that we can all understand you. At least I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u90	Well, it's not that hard.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u91	Yeah, but I'm so sorry, I don't understand. Then use the common language so that everyone here can understand it. You have had time to express yourself in Catalan, as always, there is no problem in that, but I would ask you to continue in the language in which we all understand each other. [[One Member: It is a question of education]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u92	[[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause.-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u93	Your Honor, I call you to order for the second time, you know the consequences. Therefore, I would urge you, I would beg you and ask you to continue to do so in Spanish. Other times we have had this same circumstance and you already know what the consequences are, unfortunately. I would therefore ask you to respond to my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u94	[[Continue your intervention in Catalan.- Rumors and protests.-A lady MP: Out, out!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u95	One second, Your Honor. [[Mr Botran Pahissa leaves the speaker's rostrum.-Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. What I said to the honourable Member before is true of anyone, Your Honor. In fact, you know that the consequences of calling the deputy to order are going to be exercised and you don't need to hit the benches or shout out loud: Get out, get out! Your Honor, you really don't have to. Thank you very much. We continue for the Basque Parliamentary Group. I give the floor to Mrs Gorospe Elezcano. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u96	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. You said, Mrs Trias, that once again you came up with this debate and, at the same time, the spokesman for Citizens said that we will come down here with the same arguments that we have made on previous occasions. Undoubtedly, if the debate is replicated, the arguments are replicated. You brought here a motion in the same terms, in December 2021, and therefore, we would almost only have to refer you to the reading of that day's Journal of Sessions to see our arguments. The big problem with all of this is that the arguments are the same but the tone is getting worse, because you have seen that with this topic, which is not a real problem but a political problem, you can stir up a ballot box and you're fighting to see who gets the most votes in that box, and that's why you're going up, up and up the tone of voice. What you believe is that the exceptionality in the application of 155 has to be normal, when at all it would not even be normal to threaten with the application of 155, because the success of the languages that have truly been cornered, not the Spanish language or the Spanish language, have been able to learn, have been able to promote and have been enhanced their use thanks to the normalization and political consensus between the citizens and the different political formations. That's how you've managed to move forward, and that's what you're preventing. Of course, in our political formation we are not going to allow that to be the tone that will prevail around the languages at all. Mr. Adanero said what people choose. I'll give you the data. In Basque, the Basque Autonomous Community, more than 95% of families choose free, conscious and responsible models D and B. You said, Mrs Trias, that in the new Basque law the Basque is the central axis, but you have forgotten to say that, in fact, the central axis of the Basque educational model is articulated around the Basque, but in turn it is structured around two other languages and the whole student who is in the Basque school comes out speaking in both languages. And he has also forgotten to say that we add a new foreign language, because the model we are promoting to respond to today's needs is undoubtedly a multilingual model, but we also promote interculturality, an element that is fundamental in today's society. If we want to integrate all the collectives and all the families, come from where they come from, we think that we have to work on awareness and awareness by a concept of languages and broad cultures, so that we are able to motivate all the people, whatever their origin, so that they understand that it is important to learn the languages, the official language of the place, in our case the Basque, Catalan, Galician, and Spanish, all the languages, and also to incorporate a third language into their cultural baggage and their luggage of communication skills, because that, regardless of the origin, will make them strong. But also our educational model, in relation to language, has another characteristic that is diversity, because in our peoples, in our countries, in our communities and in our territories people also live who come from other places that have other languages and that have other cultures and, although they do not learn in the educational process, it is obviously very important that they be taught in school to learn, to respect, to know and to value this wealth from a social, economic, educational and cultural point of view, undoubtedly. Therefore, yes, Mrs Trias, the central axis of our education system is articulated around the Basque language, which is applauded and chosen by families, but we also promote multilingualism, interculturality and linguistic diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u97	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Begins his intervention in Galician.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u99	Your Honor, just a moment. I have left you a space, I think usual, for it to be expressed in the language you want. It is true that I understand you a little bit more, but I would beg you, please, to do it in Spanish so that the one who cannot understand it can do it perfectly. [[laughs]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. I get the impression that 'you want to do it now' is in Spanish, but I don't know. They want to do so now, unfortunately, with the help of the right wing of the People's Party, with the fallacy of imposition. Be careful, the imposition of Galician, Euskera or Catalan, understand. Fascism apparently has the unlikely ability to function as glasses that make us see the world upside down. Professor Carlos Callón has just published a book entitled O libro negro da langue galega in which he compiles more than five hundred years of persecution of the Galician. Most of the pages are not of history, they are of the twentieth century, and we could come to the present with examples. Last week a lawyer from Vigo complained - I quote - that she recognizes the right to use official languages in the judicial sphere. [[Continue your intervention in Galician]] A judge violates the law, but obviously this is just an example of the multiples we could put in. In Galicia in Feijóo, subjects such as mathematics, biology or physics and chemistry were prohibited in Galicia, or the use of our language in childhood education was reduced to less than 10%. [[Finish your intervention in Galician]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u102	Without precedent, I wanted to congratulate Mr Bal, because he disassembled with arguments, buried with arguments, Mr Ortega Smith's stifling and fascist proposals. Now I want to tell a story, a little story, little girl. My grandson, Manel, turned four on Sunday. His parents speak to him in Valencian, his grandparents speak to him in Valencian, his friends are Valencian and they speak to him Valencian, in school he speaks Valencian. Last year he could hardly go to school because he was almost the whole course sick, barely lasted three months. When he plays, he speaks Spanish; when he plays superheroes - sometimes, he is believed to be Spiderman, other times he is Hulk and other Captain America - he tells you: Surrender, bad; you are a prisoner, yayo. No one has taught him Spanish - no one -, and yet he plays in Spanish. [[Rumors]] The other evening he was in the swings and there were children who spoke Spanish. He spent the whole afternoon talking in Spanish with those children and no one - nobody - taught him Spanish. Your tongue is not in danger, our tongues are in danger. And that's what you're doing, putting your dirty hands on an exemplary coexistence that there was; you're trying to mess up the coexistence between citizens. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: How elegant!]] As elegant as your proposals. By the way, they are trying to resurrect that of Spain, one, uniform, unilingual; finally, things as rabid as the dictatorship, that yearn. And finally, this proposal is signed by Macarena Olona. Is Macarena Olona VOX or not VOX? And you talked to Santi or you didn't talk to Santi? What do we do? [[Rumors]] If you don't clear up in your own house, how do you want to fix up someone else's house? A little bit of shame, VOX lords. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u103	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u104	Well, as I always say, I'm delighted to be invited to these group therapies that they occasionally ride. How many times have you presented - out of curiosity - this initiative? I've been here six years, about twenty-seven, almost as many as Members of Parliament have among the three in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Laughter and applause]] I would turn to what to say because I do not want to bore you, and then I have decided to copy - literally - one of the brightest Members in this Chamber - little recognized, but of the brightest, Ferran Bel. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] As you know, I'm from Santa Coloma de Gramanet. [[Continue in Catalan]] One of the many reasons, for which one can be proud to be from Santa Coloma de Gramanet is that Santa Coloma de Gramanet.....is the cradle of linguistic immersion. [[continue in Catalan]] [[Continue in Catalan]] And that was thanks to the struggle of the working class. [[Continue in Catalan]] Workers like my grandfather. [[Continue in Catalan]] Andalucians, extremists, Valencians, Galicians... who literally fought many times with their hands in meetings... because their children and their grandchildren... wanted the land they were treading, knew the land they were treading. [[continue in Catalan]] [[continue in Catalan]] [[continue in Catalan]] [[Continue in Catalan]] That I can do what I'm doing.....is a victory of the working class. [[continue in Catalan]] [[Continue in Catalan]] In fact, my grandfather and so many others have already faced fascists like you. [[Continue in Catalan]] And forty years ago in places like Santa Coloma de Gramanet already won them. [[Continue in Catalan]] And now we will, too. [[applause.-Continue in Catalan]] Culture is wealth. [[Continue in Catalan]] That someone like me, or like my son, or like our sons and daughters, can want and speak and learn in Catalan and Spanish is a huge wealth. [[Continue in Catalan]] As you know, since they speak so much of the sacrosanct Constitution..... [[continue in Catalan]] Article 3 of the Constitution recognizes Catalan as its language as well. [[Continue in Catalan]] When you here make this ode to ignorance and hatred.....you are rejecting part of your culture. [[continue in Catalan]] [[Continue in Catalan]] Look, one country, Catalonia -- this easy -- two languages -- one language spoken by 600 or 700 million people all over the planet -- another, spoken by 10 million. [[continue in Catalan]] [[continue in Catalan]] [[continue in Catalan]] [[Continue in Catalan]] If a Spanish non-nationalist alien arrived here now.....he would understand perfectly which of the two languages to protect, one must take care of. [[continue in Catalan]] Now in Spanish. Everyone knows - ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can - the model that these people have for their country: that intelligence dies. It's this, it's not new, it's very old, but they succeed in which places. What is your country model? What's your model for your country? [[A honourable Member: Time!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u105	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u106	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u107	Thank you. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u108	Thank you, President. A few days ago I was visiting the Pau Vila Institute in Sabadell. This institute is one of the public centers where I studied and learned Catalan thanks to the model of linguistic immersion. I have been there because precisely a Civil War shelter has been discovered, a shelter in which the Government of the Generalitat is doing little to identify it, condition it and introduce it into the Network d'Espais de Memòria de Catalunya. Thanks, as always, to the commitment of the faculty, of professors like David and the rest of the teaching team, who have turned to the students also know that part of our history, something that you, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, also bothers them. Being in this institute I thought that if you went once to a Catalan school, you would know that the use of languages is not a problem in Catalonia; the problems - in the mouth of everyone - are the barracks, the state of the buildings, the cuts of the Government of the Generalitat, the lack of teaching, the lack of vocational training places or the inequalities that generate access to extra-curricular activities. And I also thought there, innocent of me, that Mr Toni Cantó had already solved all the problems that Spanish had in Spain and that that is why he has abandoned the Spanish Office that Mrs Ayuso set up for him, but I see no, that you insist on this crusade, on this obsession that can only answer two reasons. The first is clear, you want to win by judicial means what you have failed to win by political means. Look, last week two headlines came out that were perfectly understood. One headline said: 'García Castellón Refuses to impute Cospedal in the Kitchen case against the Anti-Corruption criterion'. And the other said: 'The Constitutional admits the appeal of the PP and Citizens against the exclusion of 25% of Spanish in Catalonia'. Clearly impossible, you block the renewal of the governing bodies of justice to hide the corruption of the People's Party and also to achieve judicially what you have already lost in the ballot box. And the second is also so clear, you intend to always bring these debates not to end by talking about what really affects people: the shopping basket, the wages, the education, the health, the real needs of the people. They do so to hide their shame, and it is that they have not supported the minimum living income, neither the increase of the minimum wage, nor update the pensions, nor the tax on energy, nor the labor reform that has generated the most indefinite in the history of this country; nothing. You don't care to speak Spanish, Catalan, Galician or Basque to understand that you are the same privileged as ever that you defend those who have the most. [[Applauds]] Therefore, no one is surprised that you do not defend the model of linguistic immersion either, because precisely who benefits this model is the working class in Catalonia. Thankfully, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that you are being listened to by fewer and fewer people, neither by you nor by your 155 teachers who are proposing in this GNP. You're nostalgic, too, 155. The proof of its political disconnection we have seen this weekend in Barcelona. I thank you for recognizing that it was you 2800 who were at the demonstrations in Barcelona, because there were few Catalans there, you had to resort to people who came from outside Catalonia, despite making buses available, despite putting the organization and also despite putting money. No wonder to me, a ghost manifestation for a ghost concern, in the face of a ghost problem that you intend to resurrect in every plenary session. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, tell Mr Abascal - who, as always, never comes to the plenary - that it will be easier to convince Mrs Olona to return to the ultra-right corner than to the Catalans, and even to the Spanish-speaking people like me, to turn against a model of immersion that has proved effective, has proved good and has demonstrated consensus. And I'm done. Mrs. Trias, today I have learned something from you, and it is that I am an oppressed one. I am Spanish speaking, my mother tongue is Spanish speaking, with my family I speak Spanish speaking, with my neighbors I speak Spanish speaking, I am a teacher of Spanish Language and Literature, and now it turns out that I am an oppressed person in Catalonia. I am only telling you, Mrs Trias - and it is over, President - to remove the masks of victims on this subject, when you are the heirs of those who oppressed the linguistic wealth of this country for many years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u109	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the year 1260, when Latin was supplanted by romance and Alfonso X officialized the Castilian, much has advanced our common language, and I say ours, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, because they are not going to patrimonize it. They accuse this government of complicity in cornering Spanish and Spanish speakers, and the socialists of pursuing Spanish, and I do not allow it, because I am socialist, I am Spanish and I am deeply proud of our language, a vehicle of transmission of our literature, of our culture, of our art throughout the world, as are our colleagues in the PSC, the Socialist Party of Galicia, the Valencian Community and the Balearic Islands, but also of their own language, of the co-official languages, also, because they are also the heritage of their land, although you do not understand it or want to understand it because the only thing you understand is the confrontation using the linguistic policy and the linguistic rights of 40% of the Spanish population. They forget that there is an official language, the Spanish language, and another language that is also official in their territories and they strive to confront and confront the population when it is something that should unite and what we should all be deeply proud of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] This, on the other hand, also happens in Europe, because the multilingual question that exists in Spain is common in other countries, but curiously here only the right is the one that strives to confront permanently. So it is not an isolated fact, learn how things are done in other countries of the European environment. Today they bring a story that exists only in their minds. To begin with, Spanish is guaranteed in the law of education, in LOMLOU, in the additional thirty-eighth provision, which obliges the acquisition of linguistic competence in Spanish and in another co-official language if it exists there. By the way, it is also not something that is done in isolation in Spain because it is based on the Council of Europe's common European reference framework for languages. And also the Council of Europe, as well as the Spanish Constitution, protect minority languages, something which, by the way, Mr Feijoo should know very well, because he was warned precisely by the failure to protect the Galician language in Galicia. So I do believe that you should have explained to us, Mr Clavell, what is the linguistic policy of the People's Party, beyond systematically insulting the Socialist Party, that we do not consent to it, because you do not have a single linguistic proposal for this country. And I'm going to remind you of three specific things. Do you remember that when the law of education of Catalonia came out you did not resort to the Constitutional article that referred precisely to the Catalan language as a vehicle and to the system of linguistic immersion in Catalonia? And why are they attacking him now? Secondly, when they applied 155 in Catalonia they also did not apply it to the education system, and now they meet with their friends from VOX. And, thirdly, Mr Clavell, what do you defend as a linguistic policy in Catalonia and the rest of the state? Co-officiality, suppression, immersion, co-official programs...? That is to say, define yourself at once, because all they do is agree with the ladies and gentlemen of VOZ and receive all the sticks that have been and that have been, because I do not know if you have read the speech, but of course they also make you run out. I think it is also a question of providing data in this debate because the reality tells us that in the educational system it is a coincidence that Catalan pupils have better results in the Spanish language in the exams of the VeAU. In fact, in five of the last six years they have had better grades than the average Spanish student. It turns out that the Catalan student reads more than the Spanish student and also reads as pleasant reading more in Spanish than in Catalan, and it also turns out that all the statistics show that in Catalonia, compared to what you systematically repeat, Catalan people use more Spanish than Catalan in all areas of their life, both in the family and in the social sphere and in the field of work - data, not fiction - and that in Catalonia it is read more than in the rest of Spain and it is also read more in Spanish. So the only attack that has been committed here is that of VOX against the language rights of the Spaniards, because I remind them of that 40% to which I referred earlier. Let's see if they're moving forward in educational policy because - a speaker once commented - it's good to talk about the same thing all the time. When are they gonna move on? When are you going to change your story? When are they going to contribute anything to Spanish education?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u111	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u112	We already have more than fifty-five initiatives in this legislature talking about the same thing, and they have always lost them. So take note. Mr Clavell, it goes for you too, less insults and more linguistic politics, because we are not the ones who have disappeared politically from Catalonia, you are. Take note and learn something. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Trias Gil, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u114	We're appreciating it... [[Pronounce words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u115	I understand you're appreciating it, it's just that I haven't heard it. Okay. - THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY COMMON PODEM-GALICIA ON THE AMENDMENT OF LAW 9/2012 OF 14 NOVEMBER ON THE RESTRUCTURING AND RESOLUTION OF CREDIT ENTITIES; THE LAW 11/2015 OF 18 JUNE ON THE RECOVERY AND RESOLUTION OF CREDIT ENTITIES AND INVESTMENT SERVICES; AND THE REAL DECISION 1559/2012 OF 15 NOVEMBER, ESTABLISHING THE LEGAL REGIME OF ASSETS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF ASSEMBLY, IN CONNECTION WITH THE LEGAL REGIME OF THE ASSEMBLY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY PROCEEDING FROM THE BANK RESTRUCTURATION. [[File number 162/000953]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u116	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo, on the amendment of Law 9/2012, of 14 November, on restructuring and resolution of credit institutions; Law 11/2015, of 18 June, on recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies and Royal Decree 1559/2012, of 15 November, establishing the legal regime of asset management companies in relation to the legal regime of the Asset Management Society from Bank Restructuring. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u117	Thank you, President. Today the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos presents an initiative that proposes important changes, changes in silence, in relation to the Sareb, that kind of agency that many of us know as the bad bank. I want to remember why that name. The Sareb was created in 2012 by President Rajoy. His goal was to buy all the toxic assets the bank had to clean up its balances. It acquired housing, land and loans worth more than EUR 50 billion. I would also like to remind you that the explosion of the real estate bubble in 2008 resulted in thousands of mortgage executions that led to the living conditions of thousands of families, their homes. Those thousands of homes ended up in the hands of the banks. These banks finally ended up with serious financial difficulties, mainly because of their irresponsibility to grant mortgages and, above all, because they allowed and even encouraged the over-indebtedness of families, and all because of their excessive greed. Despite all this, banks were rescued; and here comes the Sareb, constituted, as I said, in 2012 by the State and also by the Council of Europe with a capital of 1200 million, 45% -540 million - of public origin through 'the' FROB, and also a loan from the European Union of more than 50 billion. The then minister Luis Guindos threw himself a lighthouse and told us that the Sareb ninth was going to cost a euro, and today we find, as we already suspected, that it has been a real black hole. But a few months ago there was an important change that we hope will allow us to get something good out of all this misadjustment: the amendment of the constitution of the Sareb was approved to allow the state to take a majority stake in the company, something that was avoided at the time of its creation to prevent the debt of the Sareb, which is currently EUR 35 billion, from being counted as public debt. In fact we could say that - do not be frightened - is a nationalization of the Sareb. Therefore, we believe that it is time to put the Sareb at the service of the general interest, because it is contradictory for the State to assume ownership control and the debt of society and, at the same time, to consider the possibility of assigning the management of its assets, many houses, to vulture funds. It's a real misconception. Therefore, it is very easy to understand. If Sareb's debt is public, so is housing and this is the main leitmotiv of this proposal, something as simple as this. [[applause]] If the Sareb becomes a public society, the houses of its property too. The control of the bad bank is a historic opportunity to expand the housing park. We cannot forget that the expansion of this park is one of the main challenges. Therefore, it is common sense that in a time of housing emergency and lack of housing the Sareb is an instrument not at the service of neoliberal policies, not thought of as a business key, but as a key to guaranteeing the right to decent housing. It is therefore important to address certain changes with regard to this bad bank, and basically it would focus on three aspects that are directly related to the guarantee of the right to housing, and which for us are the most important. First, given that the housing skills, as we know, are exclusive to the autonomous communities, we think of the formula for transferring ownership of Sareb's housing to the autonomous communities that require it. In this regard, some autonomous communities have already taken steps. He mentioned the Valencian Generalitat and our colleague, Vice President Héctor Illueca, who has long been committed to establishing a framework for dialogue that allows the transfer to the Valencian Generalitat the ownership and management of these properties of the Sareb, which in the Valencian Community are many, thousands. But this issue is not only one of our political space, it is of the whole Valencian government, it is also of Valencian society, of social movements, trade unions and even business; and something similar happens in other territories, happens in Euskadi, happens in Catalonia and in other places where initiatives that have more or less this content have been approved. Secondly, I do not want to forget an important element, transparency. We must finally know the assets of the Sareb. It would be very convenient to make a public audit to know the accounting state of the Sareb and what assets it has, including cadastral identification, the state of the buildings, the details of the legal status of the occupants if it has them... My parliamentary group has addressed the Sareb directly and we have met, but we have never achieved anything. And, in addition, forward all this information to the autonomous communities, which are competent in housing, so that, after an evaluation, they decide whether or not to incorporate these dwellings into their public park. Thirdly, I also respect the right to housing. This means ensuring that tenants or tenants remain in the homes owned by the Sareb, providing them with the necessary legal coverage - let us not talk about specific figures - so that in any process of transmission of these homes they are not left unprotected. In Donostia we have experienced certain situations in which tenants and tenants have been thrown on the street for abusively increasing incomes. That cannot happen again, there can be no evictions in homes owned by the Sareb. It is also true that the Sareb not only has housing, it has another series of assets and assets. Finally, I would like to refer to the rustic soil - which is important because it is very important - which could be used for initiatives linked to the development of public housing policies, the creation of cooperatives for the transfer of use or any type of activity involving the linking of the population to the rural environment or investment, for example, in renewable energy consumption. I conclude by reiterating that Sareb must primarily be an instrument in the service of guaranteeing the right to housing. If it is a public society and the debt computes as a public deficit, its housing must be incorporated into the public park of the autonomous communities. It is of justice and, of course, it is of common sense. And we have an opportunity, we have there the housing law that we are dealing with and, therefore, that is the perfect framework to address all these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u118	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Matute García de Jalón is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European Parliament, Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u119	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. We see ourselves again debating the Sareb, we have already done so on different occasions at the plenary session of this Congress; I would say that in the year 2022 this is the fourth or fifth time that in one way or another we address what to do with the future of the Sareb's assets. We will not give great surprises in this speech in this plenary, we will maintain the line we have been maintaining and we will defend what we have been defending: we will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal. We have tabled some amendments that I will be discussing later, but in any case I would like to point out that we will vote in favour of something as simple, but as strange in Spanish policy as coherence. If we have always defended that the assets of the Sareb had to pass into public hands because they were rescued with money from all and from all, it is normal that we all enjoy, regardless of the level of income, moving away from the speculative market in which the vulture funds have already put their hands. We will also vote in favour because in the discussion of the royal decree that the Vice-President brought to this House we have already pointed out that what she proposed seemed insufficient to us regarding the recovery of the assets of the Sareb and because she left the door open for vulture funds to continue doing business, as if it were a carnation - never better said - with the dreams of many people who were truncated by the economic crisis of 2008. And we will vote in favour because also on May 11 Euskal Herria Bildu asked the Vice-President if they did not consider the possibility of ceding all those homes, of ceding all those assets, both land and housing, to the autonomous communities and to the local corporations so that they could dispose of these assets. But we will also vote in favour of something even simpler than coherence itself, which is because we are in favour of public intervention by public authorities in the economy, as simple as that, and we are in favour of public intervention in this field and in any other area. If everyone understands that public intervention is essential for public health and for quality public education for all regardless of their level of income, it will be necessary one day to make some people with hard heads understand that it is necessary to intervene from the public in the economy in order to eliminate inequality. As our general coordinator recently said: Intervention? Yeah. How far? As far as it is necessary to guarantee the dignity and rights of people because, if not, we will continue to be dragged away by this logic that says that everything that affects our lives is likely to be privatized. We and we, the people of the Basque sovereignist independenceist left, prefer to align ourselves with something like what Jean Ziegler said: All resistance to the privatization of the world is anathemaized. Whoever endangers the exceptional wealth of the rich is ipso facto placed outside the civilized world. Neo-liberal ideology fills only the most powerful with tranquillity. That is why, as I said, we are voting in favour, but we have tabled two amendments that seek to improve the text that has been presented to us and to end a repeated percussion on an element that worries us, and that is that someone understands that some autonomous community, powerful in demographic terms and I suppose that economics, is doing things online contrary to what is intended and that we use central power - now that central power can have a certain progressive bias - to bring that autonomous community, an autonomous community like the one that can host this House, into the road. And that's a mistake, because that can serve as long as good wishes are good wishes, but when power reaches another? When the power reaches out to those who make centralization a very effective instrument to continue to bind everything and to continue to deny rights to all and all? Then we'll have a serious problem. Therefore, what we propose in one of the amendments is that the transfer of the properties and assets of the Sareb be made to the autonomous communities and local corporations. No one better than them and that they will understand what is needed in their respective realities, realities that are unequal, must also be said. The other amendment concerns the transfer or transmission, also to the autonomous communities and the municipalities, of the 72 million square meters of urbanizable land in development or urban for their use to be decided. Because it is certainly not rational for us to decide from here what to do in Guipúzcoa, in Vizcaya, in Álava, in Nafarroa or anywhere in the current Spanish state, because where it can have a lot of meaning and full space for that land to deal with renewable energy installations may not have any meaning elsewhere. And vice versa, because where some still see sense in continuing to build more housing, there will be those who see more sense in using these soils for another reality and betting on the rehabilitation of housing. We therefore believe that this logic must be taken into account. As I said, we will support this text. We regret that this is a non-law proposal and not a law proposal. We would like this debate to be settled in the housing law and for all the assets of the Sareb to be active in the hands of everyone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u120	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u121	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies. Good afternoon. At the moment we all follow a very similar thread. He also announced our vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal. It has already been announced that, apart from the fact that we already agreed with the thrust of the proposal, the two amendments that we have tabled have been taken up, amendments that were curiously in line with some of the aspects that have then been identified as most relevant, for example, the audit. For us this audit is essential, because no one knows what there is, how it is, in which territories it is or how it is accounted for. In addition, there is the issue of the transfer of such housing, land and property to the relevant autonomous communities, which are - and it is not inappropriate to repeat - the competent authorities in the field of housing. A moment ago the Member who preceded me in the use of the word said that this should be inserted in the housing law that we are dealing with. It should be so, but we have already been told that the Sareb is a piece that, although essential in the programming and forecasting of public housing that we can dispose of by the administrations to repair people who are dispossessed or who have problems of housing uprooting, will not be part of this housing law. It's okay to make a GNP, it's fine, and it's okay for us to talk about this in Congress, but its turn would be for the forces that are part of the government to be able to make some kind of agreement in the Council of Ministers. And it also has to do with the housing law, because where are we now? I'm going to tell you a little anecdote, which is fundamental to me. Yesterday, my Government, the Government of my country, the Generalitat de Catalunya, announced that it had already opened 141 cases against large forks, under Law 24/2015 and Law 1/2022, because they had not offered social rent to families at risk of vulnerability before their eviction. Of these, 51 have already become fines of 30,000 euros. This law is, of course, appealed to the Constitutional Court by fifty deputies from a group in this Congress and, probably - we will see how it ends - the Government will also appeal it. But this, together with the law on income restraint, which was also declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, shows that it is possible to make courageous policies on housing issues. They can be published in the DOGC and can be published in the BOE and can be effective policies at the service of the citizenry. Therefore, in this negotiation we will not give in if these fundamental principles are not inscribed to guarantee housing, which is not an economic element, which is not an investment, which is not an asset, is that place where people develop their lives and can somehow become citizens of our country - in this case, I obviously speak of Catalonia -. What's wrong with us, then? That there is a government and a society that sees very clearly that active housing policies must be carried out, which have to do with the containment of rents in the rental market, with maximum rates, with fines and forcing the big forbearers to offer a compulsory social rent to families who are going to dispose of their own property so that they can stay where they are paying a rational rent, and it turns out that even if we legislate, legislate and legislate and defend our people this Congress and the Constitutional Court systematically rob us of it. And they wonder why we're independenceists? Because we're living on it, because there's not enough courage to plant in front of the bank, to plant in front of the vulture bottoms or to plant in front of what's ideologically tearing us apart. So, if you don't know, you don't want or you can't do it, let us do it. The housing law must ensure that the right provided for in article 47 is not only a right addressed to administrations, a mandate to public administrations, but also the realization of a fundamental right such as access to housing, the fundamental right to have a place to return after work and to have your family, the fundamental right to be a citizen and a citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u122	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u123	Thank you, President. If we talk about the Asset Management Society from Bank Restructuring, few Spaniards will know what is being talked about. If we talk about the Sareb, few Spaniards will know what we are talking about - just like a handful more than the previous denomination. But if we talk about bad banking, the majority of Spaniards, the majority of citizens, will remind the PP government, being president Mr Rajoy, when in 2012 he solemnly proclaimed that banks were being rescued, but that citizens were not going to be costing a euro, while citizens were being offered rights cuts, wage devaluation and welfare state cuts in all the Councils of Ministers. Reality has shown that that of the ransom's gratuitousness was a great lie or a small great evil of bad managers and worse politicians. We were also told that they created the bad bank to clean up toxic assets of the banking system, but that it would not cost us public money either. Also in this case the reality has shown that it was a fallacy or a perverse evil of the bad managers. In fact, the bad bank has been a delayed rescue, with exponential costs as time went by. These are some facts to tell the Spaniards in Spanish the reality of this matter - in other languages of the State, Mr Feijoo could also be told. Bank rescue has cost us nearly EUR 50 billion; in terms of employment in the banking sector, more than 101 000 jobs have been destroyed. The bad bank, in the default bailout to which the European Union obliges us in 2020, has cost us 35 billion euros in increase of the public debt, 3.5% of the GDP, and 10 billion euros in increase of the deficit of that year, 0.88% of the GDP. This is the reality of the legacy of the PP government, of Mr Rajoy and of Mr Feijóo, a legacy poisoned in terms of public debt, coming from the bank bailout and the bad bank. The right often refers to the mantra that manages the economy well, but it must be the economy in B, because in the management of public finances it is always a social and economic disaster. [[Applauds]] With this reality, the coalition government brought to this House and confirmed Royal Decree 1/2022, so that the State, through FROB, would reach a majority position in the capital of Sareb to collaborate with the autonomous communities and the municipalities in which housing in the assets of this society serves to enable citizens to realize the right to housing, among other issues. The development of this royal decree law will greatly enable what is proposed by Unite Podemos in this non-law proposal, and that is what our amendment reflects. However, I would like to make it clear that Sareb is not the main public instrument for developing housing policies; it is not even a public instrument for developing housing policies. It does not allow the size of the housing package that they own nor an objective analysis of the housing market. What will allow housing to be a right and the fifth pillar of the welfare state are the policies of the coalition government through the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. These are the best levers for realizing this right: the housing law, the State Housing Plan 2022-2025, rental promotion measures, restrictions on rent increases, promotion of social housing, nearly 500 per cent increase in the housing budget in the State General Budgets of 2021 and 2022, and the youth rental bonus. But the competences in housing are held by the autonomous communities, and that, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, is the best lever for making housing policies. The spokesman for Esquerra said that they made laws to guarantee housing. In Extremadura we make laws, but above all we make housing, and I will give you the best example of a successful housing policy: 15,000 public housing for rent, social housing; when it wasn't enough, we made a housing program at the price of 60,000 euros for families in urban areas who needed them; housing rehabilitation, and self-promotion in rural areas. [[applause]] Extremadura is a community that has no infrastructure, no chabolism, no tensioned housing market and no tensioned rental market. It is the best example of socialist housing policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u124	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez, advocate of this parliamentary initiative, has manipulated some relevant data related to the Asset Management Society of Banking Restructuring, Sareb, also known as a bad bank. Its creation in 2012 was not the result of malicious financial engineering intentions of the People's Party, Luis de Guindos or those of whom we support that law. The Sareb was an imperative in the face of the colossal economic and social disaster bequeathed by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's socialist government after almost eight years of government. [[Applauds]] Those eight years culminated in the express reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which Forum voted against. That happened in the drafters of the IX Legislature. Eleven years of such a socialist calamity have passed and we are now in the 14th Legislature. But it is persistent to insist that the creation of the Sareb was an operation to eliminate toxic banking assets, save the deposits of millions of Spanish savers and free tens of thousands of workers in the sector from unemployment. Disagreeing from that economic disaster would have led Spain to be rescued, which did not happen because of the Rajoy government's commitment, which succeeded in straightening the economic course, regaining the path of employment and repositioning Spain in the parameters of community confidence, the very European Union which today rightly fears this government of unusual socialist and communist composition. Mr García Gómez, you talk about the PP's legacy and forget that the Sareb is, above all and above all, the legacy of the management of the PSOE and Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this non-legislative proposal we have a sample of pathological interventionism which characterizes both the ideology of one of the two parties forming the government coalition, and the disdain with which the partners manage each other, which almost three years ago concluded an agreement in which, among other aspects and in the housing chapter, a paragraph, 2.9.7, was fixed on the social use of housing and public park, with a point which, in text, says: A plan of action of the Sareb will be drawn up to ensure the signing of agreements with autonomous communities and municipalities that promote the use of housing for social rents. No more or less. However, the reality today is that we have in the nine points contained in the operative part of this initiative a complete censure of housing policy and, more specifically, of the one referring to the bad bank, because this text amends the plan to the Government, which, since last year 2021, with regard to the Sareb, has left open its collaboration with the different public administrations, making available housing for use in case of need and drawing up agreements for autonomous communities and local entities to have the order of 15,000 buildings throughout Spain to be used for social purposes. We voted here, Mrs Podemos's spokesman. He voted here in Congress. Some of us voted here in Congress favorably. Once again, the partners of the Government are on divergent paths and even more on a crucial issue, such as housing policy. The Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can raise this issue when in Congress the housing law is in process, which goes late and that it will hardly be possible to pass within the deadline committed to the European Union on account of the funds of the recovery plan. It does not seem that the presentation of this parliamentary initiative or its content is in line with providing a law that is key to Spanish society. In fact, the registration of this initiative was accompanied by others of the same tenor for its debate in different institutions, in the case of the Parliament of Asturias, where it was rejected quite forcefully. In short, in the face of this new chapter of the House of Troubles into which the Council of Ministers has become, it is only possible to express the negative vote of the Forum and, although there is no hope, to call on the Socialist Party to get rid of this policy which prevents progress in European housing measures and seeks consensus and agreement on a fundamental and key issue for Spain's society and future. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the EAJ-PNV Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u127	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a proposal from the United Nations We can urge the Executive to rethink the role of the Sareb and turn it, as the first point says, into a public tool to guarantee the right to housing with indefinite duration. In addition, it calls for the suspension of evictions in houses of its own property in which there is no alternative housing and for the conversion of land into development into public housing intended for rent. They also request that Sareb depend on the ministry responsible for housing for better control and even request the establishment of an agency to monitor the activity and achieve its objectives. It is a motion practically based on one which they tabled in the Basque Parliament not long ago, and it is surprising, because Bildu has tabled an amendment in its entirety and today it seems to be going another way. It is surprising that they bring this kind of proposal when their group is in the coalition government and could have promoted these changes in the Royal Decree Law 1/2022, which amends the laws that today intends to amend United We can, specifically the legal regime of the Sareb. This decree, as I say, was validated in this Congress and has as its essential element the maintenance of the character of the Sareb as an asset management society aimed at liquidating the assets of its balance sheet with the aim of minimizing the cost to the taxpayer and, in addition, it has to be treated as a bill. Therefore, we believe that what you should do is not delay the deadline for tabling amendments and put into that decree how many you consider necessary, if what you really intend to do is to change the legal regime of the Sareb. Because today all the measures proposed to us in this motion through this procedural formula are not binding and will therefore leave to the government whether or not what can be adopted today will be complied with. The truth is that it seems that today you are pursuing more a pronouncement by your PSOE government partner than effective measures, because, as I said, it is not binding. If you really want to change the subject of the Sareb, you have to process Royal Decree Law 1/2022 as a bill, and we are already late. There are certain specific points of GNP with which we agree and there are others with which we do not agree. We shall see what remains of the amendments tabled by the other groups or whether we are going to vote on points. As regards the modification of the social object of the Sareb to make, as I said, this society a public tool to guarantee the right to housing, we understand that this goes against even Royal Decree 1/2022, which has been validated in Congress and which has as essential element the maintenance of the character of Sareb as an asset management society aimed at liquidating the assets of its balance sheet with the objective, as I said, of minimizing the cost to the taxpayer, but it could be adapted. With regard to the creation of an agency to monitor the activity of society, we understand that ministries with competence in these matters have an important role to play in the transfer of real estate to public or non-profit institutions, in which, in addition, it weighs the social utility of these properties. Furthermore, I also believe that Royal Decree 1/2022 provides for the coordination of the Sareb with the sectoral departments responsible for these matters, which must be coordinated once that takeover has taken place. As for the fact that the Sareb must be transparent and essential for the knowledge of the assets it owns, it could also be articulated through this royal decree or between the Sareb and the ministerial departments. But it must also be said that society already makes available to the public aggregate information on what type of assets, location, etc. As for Sareb to carry out a social management of the current housing stock, integrating them into the social park to ensure access to housing, we understand that this could be, but it also has to be a purely asset management entity. With regard to the suspension of evictions, the Civil Prosecution Act provides for a three-month suspension for evictions for social services to find housing alternatives. If the action takes into account criteria such as the vulnerability of the inhabitants of housing in their property, it always implies, of course, the competent social services when these situations occur, which, moreover, have to be studied on a case-by-case basis in order to avoid such unwanted incentives. As for SAREB to speed up agreements with the autonomous communities, we believe that this point is reflected in Royal Decree Law 1/2022, which incorporates the social value of housing and facilitates the promotion of agreements with the autonomous communities and municipalities, and I believe it is in line with the commitment that the Government of Spain has always said to promote this social housing. As far as the Sareb is concerned, we want to say that the Basque Government has, of course, already addressed the Sareb to offer floors qualified as protected housing, but that in Euskadi most of them are quotas of participation in plots, which makes their management very difficult. The point therefore seems to be that this would not be the case in the case of Euskadi, but we could understand the opposite for other autonomous communities. The truth is that the points on which the GNP is concerned are very varied, diverse. As I said at the beginning, with some we agree and with others we could not or could not go into abstention. Amendments have been tabled and we set out our position when you decide what you are going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u128	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Citizens have already shown their vote in favour of something that was obvious - as obvious as it was necessary - to change the legal regime of the Sareb to adapt it precisely to the requalification by Eurostat, once the failure of what we understand was revealed is a gross simulation. Indeed, the creation of this Company of Asset Management from the Bank Restructuring, that is, from the rescue of credit institutions, from savings banks, was from the beginning a fiction, and it was because in the memorandum of understanding with the European Commission Spain undertook to form this management company in order to be able to receive the rescue initially requested by Spain of 100 billion euros. Because today there is no longer any doubt that in the context of the financial crisis of 2008 Spain was rescued by Europe, and that in the desire to disguise that rescue the then Government of the People's Party designed the Sareb as a private entity, when it really wasn't, despite the nominal distribution of the entity's shareholdership, majority in private hands of banks and insurers at first. It is obvious that if the private part of this operation was fully endorsed by the State from public debt, obviously everything, absolutely everything, was really public, as Eurostat pointed out in 2020. But if today, in September 2023, we are talking about a situation of almost collapse of the Sareb we cannot blame everything on the government of the PP of Rajoy, since since June 2018 we have had a government presided over by Pedro Sánchez, who has been warned on numerous occasions by the European Commission about its constant and permanent negative results, about the non-compliance of deadlines and amounts of disinvestment plans and even about the very clear risk of inviolability of the Sareb itself. This government, therefore, cannot claim any ignorance or lack of responsibility in the current situation, as it has been continuously warned, since June 2018. The problem is that we do not see changes in the management of the Sareb that have made it gain in efficiency. But one thing is meridianly clear, if the design of the Sareb was already a mere simulation of reality in 2012 by a PP government, the management of the societies of June 2018 by the governments presided over by Sánchez, with the Socialist Party and the United Podemos, have been the cricket of the cake and the culmination of a failure on which there were express warnings. Therefore, it is surprising the initiative that we are discussing today, proposed precisely by United We can, to transform the Sareb from an asset management society to a public permanent housing company, because we forget that the Sareb has already launched in 2013 a social housing assignment program aimed at the public administration, autonomous communities, municipalities and the Ministry of Urban Agenda itself, with a reserve stock exchange of fifteen thousand units up to 2021 to cover situations of social emergency and facilitate an affordable rent. It is true that this is an unfulfilled objective, but it is your objective and it is your management of government, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, because this is what your government, the government of which you are a party, has done - or has not actually done -. That is why your proposal today is not credible, because what supports you is your present as part of a government that has neither well nor efficiently managed the Sareb. Because we must remind them that this society has assets, yes, but it also accumulated at the beginning of 2022 a public debt of more than EUR 35 billion. You, in your wonderful world pirouettes, pretend to ignore the ultimate goal of the Sareb and the purpose for which it was conceived: to assume toxic and deteriorated assets and proceed to its liquidation and sale in order to be able to pay the debts linked to them. What is not a receipt is to reburse the Spaniards with these debts, with that liability, transferring the clean assets of dust and straw to the public administrations so that they simply put them in an electoral window, which is what you intend, and then, after the elections, that we have to pay everyone back with our taxes those debts, which you simply want at this moment to obviate and conceal. There are alternatives in Spain to generate affordable housing for rent or property, consistent and reasonable, compatible with the objective of the Sareb, with figures like that of concerts and public-private cooperation, something that from Citizens was launched and works successfully in the City Council of Madrid. These are the solutions, and not occurrences without foundation, without foundation and that will end up telling us all very expensive. Furthermore, Mrs Garrido, if the Sareb is public, as you have stated and therefore all your homes are public, I believe that what you should do is review your first notes of administrative law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u130	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u131	Thank you, President. Sareb, the bad bank that stayed with the bank's toxic assets after the bank's bailout, is now a 100 percent public entity, but unfortunately continues to operate on the same criteria as the management of its buildings and eviction policies. We therefore share a large part of the analysis carried out by the proposing group. However, we do not share the centralist and centralized nature of the proposal, which could be corrected by the amendments tabled. The BNG has also presented various initiatives calling for the transfer, not the transfer, of all the properties rooted in Galicia, about three thousand, to the Galego da Vivenda Institute and Only to dedicate them to public housing policy, since it is known that the autonomous communities have the competences in housing, without, in our opinion, the need to create new entities of a state character that take charge of this function. If we can subscribe to the points concerning the need for transparency and information, we can certainly agree on the need to paralyse the policy of evictions undertaken by the Sareb, also repeatedly denounced by the BNG with different cases in Galicia, initiatives in which a solution is sought for those affected, for example, of evictions in Piñeiros, in Narón, in Silleda, in the Calvary district of Vigo, in Bulela or in Palavea, A Coruña, for putting only a few cases. This is unacceptable in a public entity and must end. In any case, it is a GNP and, as has already been said here, you are the Government; what is appropriate is for you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u132	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This GNP offers us one of those beautiful parliamentary moments, unique, peculiar, where a government partner urges the government to take action. Someone will think: Man, if they're the government, why don't they take them?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But the good time does not end here; it is that the other partner of the government comes and presents an amendment to the proposal of the partner of government first, which wants the government to do one thing, in order to do exactly the opposite to the one proposed by the other partner. One already begins to understand the non-legislative proposal: it is that they are not clarified. So, the first conclusion of the GNP, I don't think it will solve the problems of the Sareb or the problems of housing and, I don't know if you realize, the only thing it serves is to enlarge this feeling of the Marx brothers' cabin that seems to the government at the moment. With regard to the proposal, some things have been said to them and I will have to repeat them again for the GNP, which has the significance that it has - very relative - and above all for the housing law, which has much more. Those with housing competence and who are responsible for making housing policy are the autonomous communities alone, and this is recognized in the Constitution. That there are some autonomous communities that have a government that does not like the central government? I understand that, but the solution is not to refocus and decide that the whole policy will be done from this House. The solution is that you present alternatives that please and vote for the citizens of these autonomous communities, because, if not, under the guise of trying to improve the situation of the people, you are proposing a total and absolute decentralization that we are not going to share. I tell you this because many of the problems of the housing law are essentially these, but not only in the housing law, but also in the health law that we are going to see on Thursday. The problem is your obsession with unifying tax or tax policy and here you won't find us. Beyond the fact that we are going to wait to have the final text to position ourselves, I am telling you that it is unlikely that we will support this initiative. In any case, I also want to break a spear for the Sareb. The Sareb has many problems and is certainly not agile enough, but when things are done well they must also be recognized.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u134	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u135	The Sareb will sign an agreement with the city council of my city, Tortosa, by which an urban land to be built, in exchange for a counter-performance of the city council, will put it at the service that essential health services can be established. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u136	Thank you. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u137	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I was already surprised that we are not basically dedicated to lying, which is what the left has dedicated itself to. What did you say? That he rescued himself at the bank. But, listen, all that Sareb bought were seven savings-fruit boxes from the merger in turn of savings boxes -, a subsidiary bank of a savings bank and a very small Galician bank; nothing more. Not a single asset was purchased from an anonymous partnership-like depository; only from those that had the form of foundation: savings banks run by all of you. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Garrido, it's not 'la' FROB, it's the Sareb, but it's the FROB. Neither is Luis Guindos, but is Luis de Guindos. And I've been surprised by some things. For example, Mr Matute has told us: One day we will have to make the hard heads of some understand that public intervention in the economy is necessary. Mr Matute - I see you are not in the room -, I do not know how you intend to make my hard-headed understanding that public intervention in the economy - I see that you are, sorry - is necessary. I don't know how you intend to do it, I hope it's not with the methods we're used to. [[Applauds]] That being said, we do not dispute that the Sareb is public, we have always said so. I said in December 2012 that the Sareb was public, regardless of the financial engineering operation that Mr. De Guindos had designed so that it would not compute as public debt and deficit. In the end, the European Union ended up giving reason to the treaty-makers that we maintained that position. That is why, Mr Martínez Oblanca, although I fully agree with you in what you have said to this bench, which forgets the disaster in which you left the numbers to this other one, what is true is that Mr De Guindos tried to deceive the Spaniards with a financial engineering operation so that he will not compute as public debt all the indebtedness of the Sareb. [[points to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] On the other hand, there seems to be something completely unnoticed here that you, Mrs Garrido, have put in your explanatory statement, which is that the Sareb bought the assets at an overprice of EUR 18 billion. He paid 18 billion euros more and so it was impossible for the accounts to fit that great manager who is Mr. De Guindos. How are you going to get a 15% return by paying 18 billion more than the assets are worth? That's completely impossible. You haven't said anything, but I think there's a lot to investigate. Let's keep going. Our position is that we do not share the political control to which they want to subject the assets of the Sareb, because in the background it is to affect more of the same. As I have told you many times before, the Sareb is but a century that served to sustain the prices so that the bank - that is - would not be dragged away by a fall in its assets. Here the bank was not saved, as you have said; the Deposit Guarantee Fund was basically saved, which had collected deposit insurance premiums and had no money to deal with the commitment it had as a public institution vis-à-vis depositors. [[Applauds]] We believe in the principle of subsidiarity. We do not believe at all that the state has to provide us with everything. We understand that the State is the guarantor, but not the provider. For example, in food and clothing - sectors to which you attack a great deal - we are phenomenally crowded without the intervention of the State. Do you understand? [[Applauds]] The same applies to telephone and consumer electronics, and it could be with many more things if they abandoned their ideological mantras. By the way, the principle of subsidiarity is not a fad, it is in the Maastricht Treaty. [[Applauds]] Of course, they already understand that we are going to oppose this, because, indeed, Mr Matute, we do not have so much interventionism in our heads. Look at the disaster that Sareb has brought us. By the way, if I had bought at the prices I had to buy according to the European Union, it would have benefits right now. That is, much of the guilt comes from the design of the operation that was originally made. The extension of the functions of the State beyond those of their own leads us only to economic collapse and of the entire productive system. You continue to insist that we are going phenomenal, but we spend our lives boasting of increased care spending.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u138	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u139	The expansion of the welfare state is but a sign of the impoverishment and alienation of the population to which you therefore lead interventionism. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u140	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr García, don Valentín, climb up here and set the Extremadura Board as an example of socialist housing policy. Just two data from my city, Badajoz. The last social housing that has been delivered in Badajoz was in 2015 with a popular government at the Junta de Extremadura. [[Applauds]] The last public housing that has been made with a socialist government in Badajoz has never been. All public housing in Badajoz has been done by popular governments. [[Mrs. Montesinos De Miguel: All right!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government is breaking down and, as a show, this proposal that brings us here today half of it, we can, against the other half, the PSOE. Because, even if you both agree to criticize the PP, which is the only thing that puts you in agreement now, the rest - including the kick in the ankle that this GNP represents - is all quarrels. Are the Spaniards really going to have to endure this government in decay and in constant internal struggles of young children one more year? Do not prolong the agony that sustains the Government, ladies and gentlemen, because this is what awaits us in the coming months. What a proposal, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos! What a proposal! There's really no place to take it. They really have gone hand in hand against their partners and the proposal has neither feet nor head. They begin in the first paragraph talking about Spain's rescue in 2012. What rescue, ladies and gentlemen? That ransom that the People's Party government avoided? I remind you that the PP avoided a rescue despite receiving an economy with 21.5 % unemployment, a fall of 0.8 % of GDP, a risk premium of 360 basis points, 8 % deficit or a public debt rising by EUR 200 million a day. [[Applauds]] Despite this, the rescue from this crisis that the Socialist Government brought us was avoided. I repeat, because Podemos says this several times in his GNP: it is not the crisis of 2012, it is the crisis of 2008 and it was generated by a socialist government. In the proposal they mix everything and even talk about the discount on the acquisition of assets, prosecuting, as Mr Manso has now done, if there were many or few, echoing a report from the European Commission that talks about liquidation prices, that is, the price that the Sareb would have taken out of taking all its stock to the market at once, which is not what it did, logically. Read, ladies and gentlemen, read the reports if you intend to quote them here. The least they must have is seriousness. The 2008 crisis, to which the Socialist Government brought us, left a desolating scenario in the financial system. Review the documents of the Committee of Inquiry into the financial crisis that was made here in this house: 129,400 million euros in the neutral scenario and 209,100 million euros in the adverse scenario were the forecasts of the volume of losses of our financial institutions, which were therefore unable to finance individuals and above all companies. The PP government saved not the boxes, but the Spaniards who had their savings there. [[Applauds]] Keep your demagogy. The Sareb was created and the most toxic assets of the banks' balance sheets were transferred there. What was PSOE's preference, Mr. García, for the money to be injected into the boxes and that when the assets were sold they would yield profits? In this proposal they blow and sip at the same time. They criticize with one hand the losses of the Sareb and are asking at the same time for the entity to become a large public real estate company that delivers its flats to vulnerable groups, gives them free to needy families or puts them on the market with a social rental regime that includes a very low income. This is Podemos' option. Is it PSOE too? Because if, instead of selling the Sareb flats, it gives them away or sells them below their market price, then the hole will be 35 billion euros, as they say in the proposal. Sip and blow at the same time. You are criticizing the red numbers of the Sareb and are asking that it be released free of charge from the assets. Can you have some coherence for once? Ladies and gentlemen, in 2012 in the financial crisis of the PSOE, what everyone was demanding was transparency, namely the exact exposure of each bank and bank to the most toxic assets. The Sareb was a great instrument that helped to put the financial system in order. Here they have gone up again to demagogy, to oppose within the government itself, without explaining to us that what We can propose here today and that the PSOE amends them is the cause for the housing law to remain paralyzed. Of course, it's the cause, because it's not a government, it's a bummer, it's a schmuck, it's a fiasco. And, meanwhile, the Spaniards are suffering from the escalation of unstoppable prices and the phenomenon of octopus, which for this government is not a problem. While the PSOE and Podemos come here to fight the housing as an excuse, the Spaniards see how their homes are occupied without laws; laws like the one proposed by the People's Party to end this phenomenon driven by the government itself. I demand a little respect from our compatriots, gentlemen of the government. A little respect is the least that the Spaniards deserve. We'll talk another day about ruling them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u142	Thank you. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u143	Yes, we will accept some amendments and inform the Presidency of them.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u144	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u145	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's intention to comply with the opinions of international bodies in order to comply with democratic and political rights in the Spanish State. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u146	In 2019, the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention demanded in a report the release of Catalan political prisoners. In 2000, this group reaffirmed that report in the UN Human Rights Council. Last year, in 2021, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe approved the civic title report: 'Should politicians be persecuted for statements made in the exercise of their office?', where it was alleged that independenceist views could not be grounds for political persecution. Last April, the European Parliament set up a committee to investigate cyber espionage with Pegasus after the 'catalangate' was released. Last June, the rapporteur for the Council of Europe's report, Boriss Cilevics, complained that the Spanish State had not complied with the resolution adopted. That month, the European Court of Human Rights condemned the Spanish State for making a police report on Catalan judges who signed a manifesto in favor of the right to decide. Finally, last August, the UN Human Rights Committee condemned Spain for violating article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, stating that the political rights of former Vice-President of the Government of Catalonia, Oriol Junqueras, and former advisers of the Government of Catalonia Raül Romeva, Josep Rull and Jordi Turull were suspended by preventing them from being political representatives before there was a conviction against them. And all this has happened as the Spanish State member of the Council of Europe, member of its Parliamentary Assembly, member of the United Nations and having signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Wow, wow! There are too many reports that have not been able to avoid this time. I'm sorry to tell you that international institutions are not as manipulable as Spanish justice. [[Applauds]] What a coincidence that we have not seen too many requests or oral questions from the People's Party about this, so they like to campaign against the government! Anyone would think that in the international arena, where the Chambers are less present, bipartisanism is even more intense; that they are coordinated between the People's Party and the PSOE to preserve the indivisibility of their Spain and the survival of their transitional agreements that assure them that, despite more and more parties, the power still resides in the same hands. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, remember that the last time we brought a motion similar to this House, all your majority of the investiture - all a majority of the investiture - voted in favour of complying with the report of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; all but you. When you vote this time think about how you will dare at the next Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to explain to the members who voted in favour of that resolution - certainly a few of your European party - that more than 75% of the Spanish Congress has decided to disobey the resolution. When you vote this time think about how you will dare to say to the United Nations Human Rights Council that you do not consider your resolution to be legitimate; to see if you dare to tell them that, as it is not binding, you only take note. Precisely, this motion is being debated today, 20 September, when five years after the start of repression by the referendum on Catalan independence are being completed. [[Finally your speech in Catalan.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u147	Thank you. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs Rosique, there are no political prisoners in Spain; there are prisoners, there are politicians and there are politicians who are prisoners because they have committed crimes and have been tried. [[Applauds]] Because we are already very used to political prisoners and, of course, everyone will have to pay; it is not their personal case, but that of their own. May you go to the victims...! You commit all the illegalities you want, then you call Sanchez and you say, "You either raise the issue or you stop being president." So what do you do? Pardon them. [[Applauds]] So, don't complain so much. We will have to complain to others, because they are overthrowing our rights and passing over the right of all citizens when they are pardoning you for doing what they want; in this case, for violating and violating the laws. [[The lady]] That is what is happening, and you come here now from victims and say that this is not democratic. So, when - according to your spokesman - in Catalonia I don't know how many parties only have a mayor's office, that's democratic because you rule there. Ah, but if they rule others, then it is no longer democratic. If the laws that interest you are respected are democracy; but if those laws make you judged and imprisoned, then that is no longer democratic. [[Rumors]] So you're going to tell us what's democratic or not? That has a name. When someone tries to impose on everyone else what he thinks without going through a ballot box and not complying with the law, that's called another way: it's called dictatorship. This is what you intend to do in Catalonia and what you would like to do in the rest of Spain: tell everyone what you have to do. [[Applauds]] It is true that they have a phenomenal ally, because who would think that the Socialist Party...? But in the end, we've seen that the Moncloa is worth all that. And it's worth a lot more, because yours has been a pardon, but what we're going to see next, from my point of view, is a lot more serious. What he's going to do - and we're already seeing it - is that it looks at the end that those who murdered were gudaris, saints. We allow them to pay their respects and we will get them out of jail, which is the next payment Sanchez will make to the other fundamental partner, Bildu. Between you and Bildu you are coercing and conditioning the politics of Spain. That's right, well voluntarily, President Sánchez, who listens to them at all. So, victims? Less. He's in jail because he's committed crimes. And you don't complain, because you're forgiven when you complain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u150	Good afternoon. Let's go, Madam President. Well, what we just heard now is the big joke. Look, Mr. García Adanero, there have been no political prisoners, there has been a whole democratic government in prison and in exile. [[Applauds]] And that doesn't happen in exemplary democracies, it happens in dictatorships, like the one you mentioned. So don't be surprised that they then compare Spain to Turkey; by the way, it's their partner in NATO and they're very proud of it, but then they get upset when they compare that democracy to Turkey. [[Rumors]] It is not as Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya says, it is as the United Nations Human Rights Committee has done, and so has the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But if we take a look at what the justices of European States - Italy, Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Belgium - have said, there is a problem, is there not? The problem is not out, it is in Spain, it is in Spanish justice, that when it has to dictate on a political matter - in which it should never have entered - the native ghosts come out and justice is used as a gum. So what happens is that: political prisoners and a whole government in prison and exile. As far as we can see, it is something that some feel proud of, but I think it is not only unfair with Catalan society, but also Spain has made the ridiculous; a great ridiculous which, by the way, has not ended: more than 4000 people retaliated. And it is that a conflict of a political nature, as there are so many in the world, is resolved - in Western democracies at least - on the basis of the democratic principle, not of repression. It was recalled that today, five years ago, the demonstration took place in front of the Economics Council, for which two social activists from Catalonia, the Jordi, Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, were condemned, who always called for peaceful channels and peaceful mobilization. Similarly, next week will be five years on October 1. They have a record, ladies and gentlemen: Spain has been the first State in the world to repress a referendum, a consultation. It may have been legal, illegal or allegative - whatever you want - but you have that record. And, as they have that record, the next day - on October 2 - they opened all the newspapers in the world not because they had won a world, but because they had violently suppressed a peaceful political demonstration. Similarly, if we make a review, on 4 October they brought out their head of State and, in case there was any doubt, it was shown to be a bit ultra and, with it, made the international ridiculous. Similarly, we saw how an entire Government was imprisoned. It is true that four years later some pardons came - by the way, partial - but I believe that with that it was the Spanish Government itself that took away the shame of having a government in prison. If we also remember, the Senate passed that virtually colonial 155 regime and Mr. Rajoy came up with nothing but an election call. What happened? Well, he lost them and they've been losing elections since that year. [[Rumors]] What's wrong with them? Are they nervous? Similarly, as Mrs Rosique mentioned, they have another record, and it is that Spain has applied the Pegasus listening system above its possibilities and has won as few referential states as Hungary and Poland. I'm sure some here will be proud. But while they are adding to that chain of repression, the fundamental issue, which is nothing but a political conflict, remains unresolved and, as I said before, in Western democracies there is only one way to resolve it, which is based on dialogue, negotiation and the democratic principle. Look, right now there's a magistrate - earlier mentioned by a fellow United Podemos - who's leaking to the press that he's going to perform an operation against the Democratic Tsunami, an exemplary operation. And I want to highlight today that peaceful citizen and civic movement, which, against unjust repression, has brought hundreds of thousands of citizens to the streets to protest peacefully. As long as the repressive chain continues, the Spanish State will not only commit an injustice with Catalan society, but will also continue to make the international ridicule. And how can we not vote in favour of this motion! I believe that if requested by the United Nations and the Council of Europe...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u151	Mr. Iñarritu, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u152	I'm done, Madam President. ...everyone should vote in favour, right? Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u154	Thank you, President. They are in Esquerra Republicana very concerned about compliance with international regulations in Spain. Let's see. They ask that an opinion be taken into account from an agency that - attentive - receives a money only from three regions that are not countries all over the world, namely: Quebec, Catalonia and the Basque Country. What a coincidence! However, the payment opinion says that the opinion itself already repairs any aggravation, i.e. it is known to be useless and well paid. But there are far more important and executive rules than an opinion, which govern Spain and which are also international. I've taken some examples. For example, there are many international standards that consider Nazism the main plague of the twentieth century. Let's see, in this Chamber there is only one party that has in the past contacted the Nazi party in Germany, were the Badia brothers, and that party is the Republican Left of Catalonia. Next: There are many international standards that consider fascism to be a stinking regime. Let us see, in this Chamber there are only two parties that have had contact with the Fascist party of Mussolini in Italy, namely the PNV to negotiate the Pact of Santoña, and Esquerra to assume doctrine and aesthetics. [[Mr Agirretxea Urresti: Liar]] As a result, there is only one party in this Chamber that has paraded brown shirts through Spanish cities, through Barcelona specifically, and it is the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] By the way, these brown shirts walked with torches, from here come the traditional torches that we see many times in the secessionist coffers; they are nothing more than the translation of Nazi aesthetics extracted from the congresses of Nuremberg. Everything very normal and in accordance with international regulations. By the way, only one party in this Chamber made Franco's brother Ramón Franco Bahamonde, who bombed Catalonia enchanted from an airplane. That party wasn't the Falange, it was Esquerra. We're on. There are many international standards that condemn racism, but there are only two parties in this Chamber that exalt racists who have confessed on their websites today. In other words, the PNV, which exalts the theocratic, racist, provincial, who was its founder, Sabino Arana, and infallibly appears again on the page of Esquerra Herbert Barrera and its famous phrase: Blacks have a lesser intellectual ratio than whites. But it does not end here, only one party in this Chamber today has a president who has written articles on the genetic differences between Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards, namely, Oriol Junqueras, current president of Esquerra Republicana. We're on. There are many international standards that condemn terrorism. Let's see, there are only two parties in this Chamber that recycle terrorists. That is, Bildu, who in his contests of merit for access to political positions points to kidnapping and membership in armed gangs over even the euskera - which we already know someone speaks hard - and Esquerra, who welcomes members of Terra Lliure in their ranks. For example, the last case we have known, XavierVendrell, member of the terrorist group Terra Lliure, former councillor of Esquerra Republicana, today investigated by influence trafficking, and that we also know that he had restricted information about the murder of a narco of the Galician clan of SitoMignanco in Colombia. They killed him so that he would not testify before the judge - a joy of son-in-law the Vendrell east of Esquerra -. We're on. There is only one party that has had a president who has negotiated with terrorists where they have to put the bombs. This president of Esquerra Republicana negotiated with the etarras that they killed; that was fine, that they killed, but outside Catalonia. Who was this president? Carod-Rovira - you're great. Many international standards call for the separation of powers and respect for judicial decisions. Let's see, Esquerra constantly calls for harassment of judges and has promoted assault on public buildings and has broken sentences in public. There are many international standards that protect children in their entirety. Children have the right to public education and free of indoctrination, so that they are not harmed either by the economic situation of their families. Well, the nationalists in Catalonia are spying on what language children speak in school, violating the rights of children recognized by judges in sentences and blocking the execution of sentences, while the children of nationalist politicians go to private schools free of linguistic imposition, and are also, by the way, indoctrinated permanently on TV3. In short, the service sheet of Republican Esquerra has the following merits: it accumulates philonazism, phylofascism, phylotterrorism, racism, latrociny, coup, authoritarianism, indoctrination, harassment of minors and nationalism. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, if you are concerned about those who do not meet international standards, break down. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u155	The Basque Parliamentary Group had requested your intervention, although I have been informed late. In any case, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u156	Thank you very much, President. I'm sorry about this little dysfunction we've had about whether or not I was going to intervene. I will stick to the issue and not go into a lot of nonsense that I have had to hear throughout this session. Finally, we are debating a motion by Esquerra Republicana, urging the Government to comply with the recommendations to the Spanish State regarding the process included in the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 21 July last year, and a recommendation of 31 August this year by the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this motion, as we have done in all those initiatives where the perception that we have always expressed is put on the table and which is now reflected in the opinions of the international bodies mentioned above, that what happened in Catalonia with the so-called process was not a crime, but the manifestation of a serious constitutional crisis around the sense of national collective identity of a large part of Catalonia's citizenship, which demanded and demanded the right to decide democratically its level of link with the Spanish State. This is an issue that, in our view, should and should be addressed through political dialogue and not through the security forces and bodies, the Criminal Code or prison, but also with full respect for legality and the constitutional and legal order, as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe points out in the above-mentioned resolution, in order to strengthen - and I continue to quote the Parliamentary Assembly - the quality of democracy through the rule of law, good governance and full respect for human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we said last May when Esquerra Republicana tabled a motion on the implementation of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and which now reproduces together with the recommendation of the United Nations Human Rights Committee last August. We have nothing more to add to what has already been said by our parliamentary group, but to adhere to the Spanish State's claim of compliance with the basic issues contained in both recommendations of the international reference bodies, which rightly summarized the spokesman of the Republican Left Parliamentary Group in last week's inquiry: amnesty and end of repression, negotiation and amendment of legislation so that there will be no repetition of violations of rights. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and so be it. In the meantime, we will continue to support initiatives such as the present. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u158	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the motion before us, derived from the report of the UN Human Rights Committee, the fact is that it must be emphasized that this report is no less important, but that this assessment of article 25 of the Covenant is made by 17 independent experts who analyse this compliance with international treaties. The truth is that compliance by the Spanish State with resolutions and sentences is not, it seems, the main objective of this Government. On 2 June, I asked for 61% of the judgments which the European Court of Human Rights had delivered and which Spain still has to comply with. In fact, there is not only this parliamentary question, but last week it was the European Commissioner who blamed Spain for the fact that in the last ten years 61% of the sentences were still pending, as well as the various sentences pending. The democratic quality of a rule of law, of a democratic State, is also based on these issues and is a very important indicator of whether or not the rule of law works. And the answer to this parliamentary question is that the Government is always working on the implementation of resolutions in accordance with established procedures. Well, the established procedures, which is the government's response, are not valid, they are slow, with an average of three years for the enforcement of judgments of the European Court, with disobedience to the signed international covenants. In this context, it is relevant for the Congress of Deputies to approve today to require the Government to comply with the recommendations of the UN Human Rights Committee, to comply with the recommendations addressed to the State. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u159	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u160	I make another offer to you: to repeal already article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act, which has motivated this breach of the Covenant and the report of the Human Rights Committee. They have the opportunity in the law of organizational efficiency of the justice service. PeCAT has tabled an amendment to repeal Article 384 and therefore not only fulfil the mandate of the Congress of Deputies to the Government, but actually comply with the repeal of the article that has caused this violation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u161	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u162	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today five years ago the violent assault against the referendum, against democracy in Catalonia, the 20-S, the entry of the Civil Guard into the headquarters of the Conselleria d'Economia. The Spanish government acted in the Putin style, with false accusations and also with dangerous traps, leaving on the street some Civil Guard Patrols loaded with weapons so that what no one in Catalonia, only the Civil Guard, wanted to happen. Spain is a State that must be intervened by the international community, at least in all matters relating to the harassment of the public authorities in Catalonia. It systematically fails to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights - the European Commissioner of Justice praised last week -, it fails to comply with the Cilevics report of the Council of Europe, it spies massively on independence with Pegasus and it does not even give the explanations that Hungary or Poland have already given, infiltrating police in democratic and peaceful organizations to which it accuses of terrorism and, worst of all, it conceals a partial and politicized justice and prosecution, which stands as a defender of the Constitution, but not the Constitution of fundamental rights, but the essentialist Constitution of the unity of Spain, the constitution of which Carl Schmitt spoke, a justice which with the eye placed on the enemy dictates performative resolutions that invent facts and reverse the law. Exercising rights becomes rebellion, sedition and coup d'état, imaginations that exist only in heads heated by an excess of ardent homeland. One of the problems that has generated this political-judicial activism, this war of judges, is the improper intrusion into other powers of the State, including in parliamentary activities and powers, also in these General Courts. This is precisely what the United Nations Human Rights Committee has said Judge Llarena did: to violate the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, removing from the midst, without condemnation, legitimate democratic representatives by means of the ridiculous procedural wisdom of accusing them of a crime of rebellion that they never committed, because there was never any violence, except that of the Spanish forces and security forces. We say to the Socialist Government: do not let us believe that what the UN says is not binding. If you don't intend to comply with a treaty, why don't you report it? They fill their mouths by saying that they are a rule of law and this begins to give courage, because what they must do is comply with international law, and we will tell them how. Junts per Catalunya has submitted a bill to repeal section 384 bis of the Criminal Prosecution Act. This article was created for a situation of terrorism that no longer exists!, and in the hands of judges like Llarena we have already seen that it is a bomb against democracy. Comply with the United Nations, repeal article 384 bis, which we, Junts per Catalunya, have submitted as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u163	Thank you, Mr Pagès. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u164	President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Díaz, I'll tell you one thing: if you're looking for fascism, don't look for it in the party of Lluís Companies, shot by fascism; if you're looking for fascism, look for it in your partners or your party, which I still remember when you left Parliament because you didn't want to condemn Francoism. [[applause]] You're an advanced student of Pio Moa, Mr. Díaz. Last Thursday we talked about the police sewers on the right, today about the judicial sewers on the right, and we do so because the UN has ruled that Romeva, Rull, Turull and Junqueras were arbitrarily prevented in Spain from representing the citizens who voted for them. That's nothing new. Spanish democracy is a good front, a beautiful front where behind there are painful, clamorous voids, which the international community has been reminding us of for years, as Mrs Rosique has also done today. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u165	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Asens. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u166	These voids carry the stamp of a right that has never believed in the rules of the democratic game, that despises international institutions, as the spokesman for Citizens has done, and that seeks to win in the courts what he loses in the ballot box, as Bolsonaro did in Brazil or tried Trump in the United States. Can you imagine in another country a general council of the kidnapped judiciary for four years? Can you imagine in another country such a long list of politicians persecuted for doing politics alone? That can only happen in Spain, because lawfare, the judicial war, is a recurring instrument of the right to judicialize politics and politicize justice. Being certain parties, like ours, has become a profession of risk; we have seen it with Paul Churches. Ladies and gentlemen, the sound of sands is no longer heard in Spain. Do you know what you're hearing? The noise of robes. [[Applauds]] The judges controlled by the right are actually the ones who rule in Spain, despite not running for election, and they do so from a very conservative conception of the nation and the state. They are the real political writers. They are a third legislative chamber that dictates what the will of the people should be in place of us, of the legislator. It is they who nullify statements, ban debates or decide who is worthy of representing citizens or not. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an attack on one party or another, it is an attack on popular sovereignty, pluralism and the democratic principle. Those judges have names and surnames. One of the protagonists is the President of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, Mr. Marchena, Manuel Marchena, whom the People's Party said it controlled from behind, and here the international community continually reproves with its opinions and resolutions, which undermine the international prestige of Spain. First, it was Strasbourg, which in a real rapapolvo to Manuel Marchena cancelled the sentence to the President of the Basque Parliament, Atutxa; which dared to defend him, to apply his rules of procedure and to obey his lawyers. It was then the Court of Luxembourg, which condemned Spain for preventing Mr Junqueras from acquiring his status as an MEP. And now it's time for the UN, when it says Marchena violates the rights of the independence leaders and their voters. There are many convictions against Spain, but there are also many that will come. What will Strasbourg say about Alberto Rodríguez's case? If the Constitutional Court does not do so before, it ruled that his rights and those who voted for him were violated, when he was expelled from this House for a fine of 500 euros, without a previous conviction of disqualification, contrary to the criteria of the lawyers, the Bureau and what the Constitutional Court said in 1992; an infamy, an unprecedented infamy in Europe. A former judge of the Supreme, Martin Pallín, reminds us of that in his report, and reminds us day after day in this Congress of his empty seat. An infamy that would not have been perpetrated without the action of the presidency of this House when it abdicated its functions of protecting popular sovereignty and even invented a non-existent crime. That is the truth, and it must also be said. Since then the separation of powers, this Congress, its dignity and everything that embodies as the seat of popular sovereignty has been threatened. First, it was the independenceists; then, we, but tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, may be any of the here present who dares to go against the interests of the hidden powers of this country. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. Democracies today don't die of rapid and violent coups, they die in the dark...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u167	Mr. Asens, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u168	...corroded slowly by the inaction of some and by the hidden maneuvers of others. The lawfare is born there. That is why it is time for dialogue, democracy, independent justice and remembering that the separation of powers is not merely a game of words. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u169	Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u170	With the venom. The opinion of the United Nations Human Rights Committee of 12 July 2022, published in August, is not binding on Spain, as is no opinion of that body, as the Supreme Court has affirmed until exhaustion. [[Applauds]] Do not be led by the mirage of the judgment of 17 July 2018 of that court, which has held that such an opinion may be the basis for an action for claim of patrimonial liability for abnormal functioning of justice. Because in the case prosecuted by that sentence it was that the actor had reported to the court up to forty-seven times the risk of her daughter's death at the hands of her ex-husband or person with whom she lived without meriting proper guardianship of the judiciary and despite psychological expert reports... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u171	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u172	... reports from social services, etc. Then, nothing comparable to the prosecution that is the subject of this opinion, which, as I say, does not oblige Spain in terms of non-compliance, unless there is a provision of domestic law which establishes this, and it is not the case in Spain. On the recommendations addressed to Spain by Resolution 2381/2021 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, based on the so-called Civics report - the name of the Latvian deputy, vice-president of the democratic and green socialists in that parliamentary assembly - it is falsely said in the motion of the Republican Left of Catalonia that this resolution was already under consideration at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly in June this year. It is said falsely, because what is omitted is that this resolution was not adopted, but that it fell expressly at the will of the proposer himself, the picturesque Member Mr Cilevics - who seems to be very interested in the Catalan and Spanish affairs - because of a number of successful amendments - some Members who I see sitting here from the Socialist Group were present to delete all the references to Spain and only the references to the Republic of Turkey remain. Then he cheats on us or pretends to cheat on us, but, as you see, he doesn't hang. I was present in that picturesque vote promoted by such a picturesque parliamentarian of a Baltic republic. In the light of the above, it is questionable whether ERC will be equally jealous of compliance with international law, for example, whether the Court of Justice of the European Union, following the conclusions of Advocate General Richard De la Tour of 14 July 2022, i.e. before yesterday, cannot deny the execution of a European arrest warrant on a ground based on the national law of the requested State, as well as cannot deny such execution solely on the basis of a review of the jurisdiction of the examining judge of the requesting State, nor can it deny the execution of the European arrest warrant on the basis of a hypothetical unfair trial that would be instituted by virtue of the execution of the arrest warrant, unless - it says in the general conclusions - it has objective, reliable, accurate and duly updated data proving that there is a real risk of a violation of the fundamental right to a fair trial due to systemic deficiencies, things that do not exist in the case of Spanish law. [[Rumors]] What will be the position of the Government of the Generality...? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u173	Mr. Sanchez, wait a minute, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u174	Thank you. What will be the position of the Government of the Generality if the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union follows the conclusions of the Advocate General and therefore determines that the refusal of the execution of the arrest warrant in the Puig i Gordi case and, eventually, in that of Mr Puigdemont and others is contrary to European law? What's it gonna be? We suppose that we oppose Belgium's handing over Puigdemont, Puig i Gordi and others to Spain, to the Spanish courts, to be tried; or at best they take advantage of the circumstance to sacrifice them, now that the ERC's with Junts are misled and they want to put an end to the glorious existence, their nationalist fervour and their veneration of international legality. [[applause]] The national Government had to sue the Kingdom of Belgium after the judgment of 7 June 2021 of the Brussels Court of Appeal, which refused the extradition of Puig i Gordi; to sue the Court of Justice of the European Union under Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, after complaint to the Commission. But what can be expected of a Government like this, which signed in July 2022 a pact at that table of disgusting dialogue, in which it says that it supports Catalan law...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u175	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u176	... that it has prevented the forced execution - because there was already a car - of the judgment of the TSJ of 2020, that the only thing it says is that children must be educated in the two official languages in the Catalan education system in a percentage that will be determined, but that it cannot be less than 25% of each of those languages? You, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, following these independenceists, refuse...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u177	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u178	... that Spanish children in Catalonia are educated in a vehicular language, as the Constitutional Court has said, with a minimum teaching time of 25%. [[Rumors]] Indignity and oppression! Nothing more. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u179	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u180	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The motion that we are discussing today is part of the history of the spur - you will have seen it - in which this legislature has become, as it calls on the Government of Spain to implement the recommendation of an opinion of the United Nations Human Rights Committee and a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And you will say: Of course; it is logical that a parliamentary group asks the Government to comply with the recommendations of international institutions if it does not do so. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u181	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u182	What does not cease to be absurd or shameful is that the person who asks not only fails to comply with recommendations, but repeatedly fails to comply with judicial sentences and repeatedly fails to comply with the law and with the mother of all laws, which is the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, your party has been calling for unilateral disarmament of the rule of law in Catalonia for years. They have violated and continue to violate the rights and freedoms of thousands of citizens, as fundamental as the rights to learn in their mother tongue. You, who fail to comply with firm judgments such as that of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which requires that 20% of the agenda be given in Spanish, dare to come here today to ask others to comply with recommendations that are not mandatory. You don't even have the shadow of shame. They have been building this reactionary idea for many years that Spain, the whole of Spain that disagrees with its idea of Catalonia, attacks and attacks them. They have been working for many years to separate Catalans from Spanish and also to divide Catalans between themselves, the good and the bad, always depending on the adherence to their cause, to which there is only one way out: submission; to you, of course. All these years they have also insisted on spreading this same idea outside Spain, these same lies. They are lies because, in this persistent work of victimization before the world, they have always forgotten to count the acts of violence that do occur in Catalonia: the enslavement, the threats, the persecution to those who do not think like you and, also and especially, the persecution to our public and militant offices, as well as the aggression to our headquarters. They forget to mention that today there are minors - children in schools in Catalonia - who are persecuted and watched to prevent them from using a language that is the common official language throughout Spain and which, in addition, unites us with another 500 million speakers in the world. They practice that of 'freedom for the truth, but not for error', while they are filled with the mouth of calling each other fairies. They also forget - because a lot of historical memory, but the recent one is lost - that among the crimes for which Mr Junqueras, Mr Turull, Mrs Romeva and Mrs Bassa were convicted was not only sedition, but also the crimes of embezzlement of public funds, and this was evidenced by the famous Silvics report that you ask here to be fulfilled. I think it is very important to remind you that your conclusions were rejected in the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the same way that I think it is important to remind you that you have lost all your resources before the Court of Justice of the European Union and also before the European Court of Human Rights and that, in addition, the Court of Auditors is demanding millions of euros from Artur Mas, Puigdemont and some officials of the Generalitat for irregularities committed by the Catalan delegations abroad, since their activities were not representative within the framework of competition and constitutional, but to promote the independence of Catalonia with unjustified and disproportionate payments, because all this has been financed by the money of all the Spaniards and by the invaluable complicity of a government that, in the face of the permanent deterioration of the image and projection of Spain abroad, what we are asking for is patience. [[applause]] This is what the President of the Government said today at United Nations Headquarters in New York, this is what a Government hostages you, your parliamentary partners, who are the authors of this motion, who has renounced the exercise of their powers on the basis of transfers, who has even handed over the de facto surveillance of inland waters and the territorial sea, which are the exclusive competence of the State, to the Catalan Autonomous Police, thus renouncing the surveillance of the maritime border in part of the Spanish jurisdictional waters. It is a government that has given up defending a large majority of Catalans and a large majority of Spaniards from the permanent - permanent - attacks inside and outside our borders by the independenceists, all in exchange for a few more minutes of mattress in Moncloa. That is why my parliamentary group wants to use this motion to ask the Government to do something that it can do: to enforce the judgments of the courts in Catalonia and, in addition, to comply with a single recommendation, which defends a project of coexistence and plurality for Spain and for all Spaniards. It is a recommendation that, curiously, is proposed to him by Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Listen to me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramírez Carner has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u184	Members, Members and visitors; I was also going to welcome Mr Abascal, but I see that he does not even come to vote. Let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, spokesman of VOX... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u185	Quiet, please, Mr. Suarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u186	..., I see that insulting and calling witches to the feminist comrades of the PSOE is very good for him, but documentation is quite bad for him: in Catalonia there is no child or girl who does not know how to speak in Catalan and Spanish. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have seen an intervention very vehemently, just as a little aggressive, unhumbly. I'm just giving you two data. First of all: read, visit, step a little more Catalonia, where they have three out of 135 deputies. Second Data: Only under a disastrous government of the People's Party has there been proclamations of independence and illegal referendums. [[Applauds]] So, look at what you've done and then give the rest lessons. Thank you very much for your contributions. [[Rumors]] I think it's my turn now.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u187	Mr. Garcés, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u188	If the Republican Left Parliamentary Group had not presented this text five hundred times, I would be surprised, but that is not the case. I have to admit that Mr Rufián has had several speeches which at least seemed wonderful to me, when he encourages the left of the House not to lower their guard, not to fall asleep, to work hard, as we do, because, if not, what is coming is the ultra-right, it is the right, it is the people who want to end everyone and everything. I am very disappointed by Mr Rufián's group when, saying this, he then brings us ammunition here, degrading Spain with data that you know is false and that only serves to feed the monster of the far right. Either they're with those of us who fight the far right or they give arguments to the far right. Please do that reflection. [[Applauds]] I don't doubt Mr. Rufián's honesty. Don't be surprised, Mr. Rufián, I don't doubt your honesty or your beliefs or your ideology. Then why do they do it? Are you using this House as another stage of your battle with Junts per Catalunya? Are you using Congress to have your videos on Tik Tok and Instagram and to see who is more independent? I believe that you do this, because, if not, it is not understood that you present twenty times the same text that you know does not stand. You, Mr de Esquerra, are committed to questioning Spain's democratic quality despite the fact that all these international bodies say otherwise. What doubts democratic quality? Do laws of disconnection against existing legality and against the majority of Catalans and Catalans favour or not democratic quality? Proclaiming republics of plastilin for eight seconds against the majority will of the people of Catalonia favours or does not favour democratic quality? When Reporters Without Borders - not the PSOE - tells us that freedom of the press is questioned in Catalonia for the independenceist harassment of non-independence journalists, is that helping or not to the democratic quality? [[Applauds]] By the way, is Mr. Dalmases going to resign or is he not going to resign, the TV3 journalist stalker? He's still in charge, isn't he? When mossos are caught shredding spy papers, is that improving or not democratic quality? I don't think they've tabled two hundred motions on this subject, have they? Think about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as I said to you, you live in a parallel reality, as in Alicia in the country of surveys swollen by her powerful friends. Two things. One: You tell us a lot about our partners, you constantly tell us about our partners. I tell you that we do not choose partners, we choose policies, and your votes would be very welcome to improve labor rights, to tax the banks and energy companies that are winning the most and to help, with the policies we are doing, the people who are worst going through it. But you prefer to deal with those who want us all to have guns and shoot each other. [[Rumors]] And one last thing. According to a study about six months ago, do you know what degrades Spain's democratic quality? Violate the Constitution that you did not vote or defend and block the Judiciary and its renewal. [[Applauds]] Please, a little humility. Lessons to others. Ladies and gentlemen, to improve people's lives, all votes add up. To make this show so 2017, with us do not count. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ramirez. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin voting, the first secretary of the Bureau will read an institutional statement against racism in football. Secretary first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u191	Last Saturday there was a regrettable racist incident in the vicinity of the Atlético de Madrid camp when Atlético fans threw racist and xenophobic insults at the player Vinicius Junior for the color of his skin. The agitation of hatred, racism and xenophobia is not a strictly sporting issue because football also educates, and in this case it educates for evil: from football camps insults pass to schoolyards. That is why this Parliament cannot look elsewhere. This episode is not an isolated case but a new example of a reality that has been denounced many times: Marega, Kameni, Williams, Marcelo, Alves or Eto'o, among others, are some of the players who have suffered racist insults. An even more bloody reality considering that only once has a party been stopped. This shows that, in fact, it is possible to stop a party because of the insults on the part of the rank and that the only thing missing is a greater awareness and, in addition to the sanctions that the Anti-Violence Commission can and must impose, a greater strength on the part of the institutions, clubs and players. That is why the Congress of Deputies: It expresses its absolute rejection of violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sport and in any other area. It is committed to the willingness of parliamentary groups to promote respect for sport and the necessary measures to eradicate intolerance, racism, xenophobia and any form of violence. It urges the organisation of La Liga, UEFA, FIFA, sports clubs and also the sportsmen involved, as well as the Higher Sports Council and all public administrations to continue to commit themselves to the total eradication of violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sport. Congress of Deputies, 20 September 2022. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the proposals for a law. Firstly, a bill by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress amending Act No. 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the electricity sector to include measures to facilitate the competitive supply of electricity to seasonal consumers. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 160 against, 165 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u194	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - the Parliamentary Group VOX, ORGANISATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/00167]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u195	Proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group VOX, Organic for the amendment of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 53 against, 289.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-20-CD220920.u196	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was eight and fifteen minutes of the night.
