ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. I should like to inform you that from 6.30 p.m. - that is, from now on - until 8 p.m. today we will be able to vote on amendments to committee opinions which will be voted on in person in the Chamber at the end of the debate on the second opinion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u2	We begin with the point concerning the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives and, in particular, the proposal for a law for the establishment of temporary energy levies and credit institutions and financial credit institutions and for the establishment of a temporary solidarity tax for large fortunes, and amendments to certain tax rules, formerly referred to as the proposal for a law for the establishment of temporary energy levies and credit institutions and financial credit institutions. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also establish a position at this time, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor first. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be a little agile so that we can start the plenary under appropriate conditions. [[Rumors]] I ask you, please, that if you want to leave the Chamber, you do so quickly. Don't stay in the halls talking, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] Mr. Mazón, let's wait a minute. I am sorry to have called him and that he has to wait in the rostrum, but also for technical reasons ask us for this little pause. [[Pausa.-The Vice-President, Pastor Julián, takes the Chair]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Mazón.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u4	Good afternoon and thank you very much, Madam President. In considering the tax on energy companies and financial institutions, the PRC voted in favour, because any effort made by those who have the most and those who have obtained extraordinary benefits from these crises I believe is of justice. But these measures must be done with rigour and appreciation of all their consequences. That is why we expected important changes during the process of the law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u6	We would have done the same with regard to the so-called wealth benefit of the great fortunes. Well, now we have a law that encompasses everything, the content of which is doubtful respect for the right to the European Union, even the Spanish Constitution itself, and this gives us great concern. With regard to energy companies and credit institutions, the charge is on billing and not on profits, as the European Union does, and this is a pure and hard cost for companies, and furthermore, in theory, it would also affect those with losses. Impossible to pass on costs to sales, when this is something basic in a market economy and, in addition, impossible to control. [[Rumors]] Discrimination between those who charge more than 1 billion and those who charge less. Again, leaping from the limits, which generates great inequality and is contrary to free competition. I hope that it does not pass as with the electric social bonus, cancelled by the European Union, and that now we all pay on the bill of light. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u7	Wait a minute, Mr. Mazón. Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker cannot be heard. Please, be quiet. Go on, Mr. Mazón.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u8	Discrimination between economic sectors. Why not a charge to pharmaceutical companies, which have had a great benefit for COVID? And in the solidarity tax there is a possible invasion of the competences of the autonomous communities and, as a result, of the services that citizens receive, because, receiving a different amount all the autonomous communities, then it is distributed to all equally. And there's a possible problem with the start date of the degeneration. We share the objective and will vote in favour, but we hope that the Government will make it clear that all these issues that it is raising must be perfectly defendable before the courts. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the same group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u10	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This law is a new misconception. It is being told by the International Monetary Fund or the European Central Bank. When we look later at the consequences for the citizens, who are going to pay the taxes that you are going to put on the banks and the energy companies, what are you going to tell us, that no one has warned them, as with the law of yes, with which the rapists now go out on the street, as we are seeing? Are you going to say that no one warned you of the consequences? Because the European Central Bank is telling you, the International Monetary Fund is telling you, the lawyers are telling you, and the regulators are telling you. What happens is that you don't do anything and it doesn't matter to you, because you legislate exactly the same as if you did bits; instead of laws, bits: you crush, you pack and you do it with guts. Legislation cannot be done with guts, it must be done with the head, because then it turns against citizens, as is the case with this law. By the way, the content is a misconception, of course it is, but it is also a misconception how to legislate. We have seventy amendments vetoed in the paper and we have come out of the paper with seventy amendments to which the Government had decided to lift the veto. Hey, this isn't Venezuela, although you guys are looking really more and more every day. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u12	And, of course, the consequences - they're all being warned - are harmful. They are harmful to the price of credit, they are harmful to the flow of credit, they are harmful to monetary policy, they are harmful to investment. It's just that there's no place to take these measures, but you get involved, and the Spaniards pay for it. That's right, they've been very skilled at putting tax breaks through the back door to very powerful companies. When you want, you do support powerful companies and, when you do not, depending on which sectors you are, if you like them less there, not; by the way, they are companies that do not tax the bulk of their taxes in our country, but do so in Luxembourg, the Netherlands and other European Union countries. But as it seems that they are powerful business groups, that must have the sympathy of the government, it gives them the same, and they put fiscal aid through the back door in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Sayas López. For the same group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Coalition Canaria agrees with what philosophy was, with taxing companies in the financial and energy sector that had extraordinary profits. But, as this law has been done, it will generate a perverse effect for the Canary Islands. We only tabled one amendment and have not been accepted, but we will continue to negotiate in the Senate. The next item is the report (Doc. Distribution companies, and I mean candy and gasoline, are not companies that are within what the European Union fits. I am referring to extractive, exploration and refining companies. In the Canary Islands, the following happens: taking candy and gasoline to the non-capitalist islands has a very important logistical cost for distribution companies, because logistics is needed for fifteen thousand people in El Hierro or twenty thousand people in La Gomera, and it is not profitable. However, as it is overbilling, Lanzarote, Fuerteventura, La Palma, La Gomera and El Hierro will have to pay a tax, when the sale is practically at cost price and there is no profit. Europe excluded them. The only thing we have asked is that what companies charge for the distribution of candies and gasoline - on the smaller islands gasoline is worth as much as on the peninsula; it has a brutal cost - is not calculated, for the purposes of the tax, on the non-capitalist islands, because the companies have losses. We have not been accepted that only amendment. I do not know whether there has been interest or whether it is because it closed with Bildu at the last moment, because until forty-eight hours ago they agreed to accept this amendment or, at least, to speak. I call on the Government to reconsider the situation of double insularity in an essential service. We will see if the companies, when this is finally approved, continue to supply gas stations on the non-capitalist islands and butane candy, because they are going to be charged a tax and what they have are losses or zero profits. Europe says that national and European laws are adapted to the condition of remoteness and insularity. This is what's called ultra-perificity. But you, gentlemen of the government, have not been able to see it. I did not throw in the towel: we meet in the Senate to recognize that fact of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, aratsalde on guztioi. To defend the amendments that we are keeping alive and that have not been the subject of a compromise and to defend our own affirmative sense of this proposal for a law, as well as to cheer them up a little bit, given that the mood is already low after such a marathon day, allow me to use quotations from a text that for most of you represents much more than for myself and that you certainly have it on the frontline of your political action. The preamble to that text says that democratic coexistence must be guaranteed within the Spanish Constitution and the laws according to - I repeat: according to - a just economic and social order. And say more. Article 1 states that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic State governed by law, which advocates as superior values of its legal order - I repeat: superior values of its legal order - freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism. And in order to carry this out, it enables a series of articles, namely 128, which says that all the wealth of the country in its various forms and whatever its ownership is subordinated to the general interest - not to the particular one, to the general interest -. And it says more in its second point. He said that public initiative in economic activity was recognized and that by law essential resources or services could be reserved to the public sector, especially in the event of a monopoly, and, likewise, the intervention of companies could be agreed upon when the general interest so demanded. The question to be asked in this debate is, therefore, whether there is such a general interest in initiatives such as those being undertaken by this Government. And the answer is not based on subjective criteria, it is a response based on objective facts. Let us look at the poverty rate, let us look at the same data that the People's Party bench has used - certainly not just the People's Party, but I have heard them from the Members of the People's Party - in defending their amendments to certify, objectively, that we live in an unequal society, where there are many poor, and more and more. We can say, without fear of being mistaken and without any official data being refuted, that from 1995 until now the rate of people at risk of poverty has only increased, that it has never been below 20%. This society, this state, has accepted that 20% of its population, in the order of no less than 9.5 million people, must always live in poverty or at risk of poverty. That's the X-ray, that's the picture of an unequal state. Therefore, in the face of inequality, of a government, and more so if you say progressive, what you have to demand is that it act. As I said to you, these data are irrefutable, as irrefutable is that it is not a disease unique to the Spanish State: 10% of the world's population accumulates 70% of global wealth and 50% of the world's population has only 2% of global wealth. We must therefore act - it seems clear - and, if we are to act, the next thing we have to ask ourselves is who is to act or who is to act. For it also seems very reasonable what I am going to say, and it is that we have to act on those who have earned more, on those who have more wealth, because it is precisely those to whom we can ask part of their wealth to do something that, surely, you all point out in the different struggles, as it is to distribute it, to redistribute wealth and to seek a society where equality is real and freedom, not just to take a few canes, be effective for all and for all. For there we find ourselves again, and again used objective data, with the electric sector or oligopoly and with the banking sector, which are the two sectors that have earned the most money in recent years, which have beaten profit records, multiplied their profits. I will not quote them again because those data have been used in this forum many times and because we can all access them in a simple way with just one click on the Internet, but we will have to say that, if the bank profits have been those that are or if the benefits of the electricity sector have been those that are, the reasonable thing would be that we could give those revenues to redistribute wealth. The banking sector, all said in passing, has not had a lot of room to keep firing people - more than 18,000 since 2019 -, to close bank offices or to collect commissions, which I would say are dishonest - then the bad one is Lucio Urtubia -, for everything and for everything. Well, well, that's the same people you have to ask for something from. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u18	And neither is what is being asked of them so painful, so dramatic, so dangerous for their profit margins. Because the 60.6 billion euros the State has given to the bank or the 1500 euros that it is going to collect are nothing compared to the 60.6 billion euros that it was given to the financial sector. [[The Lord]] We also believe that there is a need for a solidarity tax on big fortunes, of course, on fortunes over EUR 3 million. And I know that what I am going to say will no longer be as comforting as the shared reading of the Spanish Constitution with which I started, but it is opportune to say, because it is good to know that 500 billionaires, out of a total of 730, do not pay property tax in Madrid for living in Madrid. And then they get angry because we say this is a tax haven, for those who have more, because I guess for those who have less this won't be so. We are going to support this text for all the reasons I have given, but also because we believe that, throughout the text, guarantees are being drawn up, first of all, so that what is entered in the outlying coffers, both in the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Guipúzcoa, now in Vizcaya, and in the Navarra Foral Community, is managed by those institutions. This tax is temporary, but we tell you openly that it should be structural, agreeing that in two years' time there will be a review of it, because if poverty, as we have said before, never falls by 20%, it will always be necessary to articulate mechanisms and actions in order to try to get closer to what you are consecrating in the Spanish Constitution, which is the effective and real equality between all and a just social and economic order; if not, we will only find ourselves before empty words in increasingly forgotten texts. I'm done. This step remains lukewarm and we regret that it is so late. Three years we have had different left-wing formations in this House pointing out the need for a special tax or a special form of collection to be imposed on banking and the electricity sector, and it has taken three years to do so, three years that have been lost. Moreover, it is done very timidly, with percentages that could and should be more ambitious. In any case, these are the debates that allow people to understand that with patience they are still awaiting these debates what is left and right, the historical differentiation between left and right: the redistribution of wealth, the search for a society of free and equal men and women, or the perpetuation of a system with dominant and subordinate classes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u19	Thank you. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u20	Thank you, President. The truth is that, once again, the debate on these energy charges and banking remains, as we have been saying so far, a peculiar debate, and I say this because of the procedure that has been followed with regard to their processing. Because instead of articulating it as a bill, it is articulated as a bill, avoiding certain procedures. In addition, it is articulated as a non-tax property benefit, rather than a tax, although it is treated as if it were. In the explanatory statement they say that the objective is, on the one hand, to deduct extraordinary profits, and it turns out that the turnover is taxed; on the other hand, that it is a question of contributing to an income pact, and the truth is that it is difficult to achieve such an income pact if there is no agreement between the parties concerned. It is an express procedure which, moreover, by amendment, has created a new tax on the great fortunes to which the groups have not been able to introduce any amendments. Subsequently, most of the amendments tabled were vetoed, justified by the decrease in revenue from a budget that is not yet approved, and then lifted, by the action of my group and others. And it certainly makes no sense not to allow a debate on an issue as important as the prosecutor, which requires prior work to dialogue, debate and try to agree; that is at least what we were able to do last week, hours before the Commission. However, this dialogue has sparked its absence this week and no agreement has been reached. That is why we are keeping our amendments alive today, for which I am asking for their vote. He got into it. The objectives of the amendments tabled by my group are, on the one hand, to impose what the explanatory statement actually says, the extraordinary benefits, as it also regulates and endorses the European regulation, because the inability to control the formulation of the account cannot be justified in order not to tax those extraordinary benefits. On the other hand, and assuming what is proposed in this proposal for a law, since these extra benefits are not to be taxed, the amendments were to solve those most problematic technical aspects, correct the weaknesses that can most facilitate a remedy on the part of the operators and try to prevent such measures from ending up being annulled by the courts and could lead, in three or four years' time, to major financial returns which, ultimately, could bear this citizenship and economic fabric to which, today and now, precisely, we intend to protect. I understand that this is what political groups do not want. They are therefore amendments, and they are not mistaken, in order to avoid unwanted consequences, especially because in the design of the benefits it has not been taken into account that it is a question of taxing sectors which, moreover, are partly regulated, with the complexity that this entails, because the benefit taxes the turnover and, therefore, would be taxing activities and revenues that do not generate profit, since it is the Government itself that sets that remuneration; income, therefore, as I have said, is regulated. In this respect, we agreed on an amendment which was introduced in the paper. However, this also happens in the energy sector with the charges, because the trading companies concerned act as mere collectors of the system and do not have any benefits on these amounts, because the revenues corresponding to these tolls and charges are part of the CNMC's liquidation system. They are also amendments to prevent the loss of competitiveness of the productive fabric and to prevent or reduce a slowdown in investment, which does not affect large operators, but precisely their suppliers, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs which are also facing a very difficult and complicated context. They are therefore amendments to leave out of the benefit income generated in permanent establishments outside the Spanish territory and also to companies of the group whose main activity is not energy, but with limits, namely those whose energy activity does not exceed 50% of the turnover, a percentage, moreover, much more restrictive than that established by the European Union. Finally, they are amendments to establish incentives for investment in energy transformation, decarbonisation and energy efficiency through a very concrete deduction, provided that such investment involves an extra investment effort to that made in the last three years and with limitations, as other countries in Europe, such as Italy and the United Kingdom, are doing. In addition, they are deductions that are endorsed by the European Union. I have to say that, despite the fact that two amendments tabled by my group have been negotiated and two have been accepted in their literality, we understand that there is still room for groups to support, as I said earlier, those that are still alive and that are simply trying to correct technical errors and that I therefore take the view that they are being defended. With regard to the introduction in this proposal of a law on the carrying out of a study of the results of both taxes - rather, non-taxable property benefits - we believe that it is interesting to be able to make decisions in the future regarding them, but at the same time we welcome the fact that those amendments which called for both taxes to be permanent were not supported, because if so agreed by the outlying communities, i.e. the Basque and Navarra haciendas, they could neither collect nor manage it, simply because they are not taxes. And let us say the truth, they will not be able to do so now either, even though there is an outside safeguard, because what simply says that safeguard is that the participation of the outside communities in these benefits will be established in the joint commission and in the coordinating commission of the convention, that is, that a certain economic compensation will be negotiated, but never, in any case, neither the collection nor its management, because the Spanish Government will collect, which, in turn and through this proposal of law, establishes how to manage, that is to say, it marks the purpose and the destiny of what is collected, as the Finance Minister, Mr Azpiazu, also corroborated today. Of course, those of us who defend the economic concert and the Navarro convention do not want this. What we want is that if in the future, as is now the case to deal with unpredictable situations, it is necessary to have extraordinary structural or even temporary charges to redistribute tax burdens, they are formulated as taxes, since they are the ones that can be agreed and therefore collected and managed. This is what makes the difference, and, if you look at this as I have just said, you can even see in the very proposal for a law, in which there is talk of concertation, of the tax of great fortunes, and of participation, in the case of taxes on energy and banks. And a reflection. They make patches. That's what you're doing in general with all the taxes, come from wherever they come from. It is being legislated, a little in general, at a marketing blow. If we understand or understand that existing taxation does not work, is weak or is not responding effectively, what must be done is to foster a serious and in-depth debate to design a long-term comprehensive tax reform that responds to present and future societal needs and to provide certainty and legal certainty. My group shares the substance of this GNP, that is to say, we share its philosophy, that those who are benefiting from this short-term situation of energy shock are pulling their shoulders. And it is that, despite the fact that the extraordinary benefits, as Europe advocates, are not properly recorded today, and that we are defending, the fact is that we continue to observe technical shortcomings that make this bill very vulnerable to potential resources and can guarantee investments in ecological transition. It is difficult to endorse that the chosen formula is a non-tax income benefit, because, as I have said, it cannot be agreed, collected or managed, and this in the future entails a risk to the outside communities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u21	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u22	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the second plenary session of the general budgets of the State. It is the second plenary of the General Budgets of the State, because in the first we have seen that law, that long plenary, and in this one we will see what Spain has had to give in to the PNV, to Bildu and to the Republican Left of Catalonia so that in the first plenary you will get drunk and stand to applaud the President of the Government because he has carried out the budgets. Now comes the ugly, now comes the hard, these things from the reform of the crime of sedition, these things that we so much want We can of the tax against the wicked, the wicked of the bank, the wicked who supply us with electricity in our homes, those evil rich that some parliamentary groups seem to defend, because we like the rich more than the poor. If we like the rich more than the poor, why have you vetoed us in the budget law, for example, that a reduced VAT is applied to vulnerable groups, the poor and people with disabilities? If I like the rich more than the poor, why have you, so progressive, vetoed us, for example, bonuses in training expenditure for the entrepreneurs of these same groups or why have we vetoed tax subsidies for those entrepreneurs who hire people who are receiving the minimum living income? Is it not you who do not like the poor too much and make the easy excuse that we like the rich, with that childish distinction between good and bad? For in this second plenary we are going to face this, indeed, in addition to that another one we are not going to see, because you will negotiate it in the dark transtends, to throw out the Civil Guard of Navarre. The truth is that we all pay a very high price as a result of their voraciousness to remain in power. But in addition, you commit all kinds of dictatorial and anti-democratic trophies, such as raising nothing less than these three taxes by means of proposals for legislation without the opinions of advisory bodies that can illustrate us; you enter the Commission and deny us the representatives trying to remedy precisely this problem; within two days you call the Commission and nothing can be done; you impose, by means of a partial amendment, the tax on the rich. I do not know whether it is possible to find in a single legal text a greater number of barbarities than those committed by you. In the Commission, I would also like to remind you - forgive me, Mr Guijarro, to quote you so much these days - of Mr Guijarro saying: 'Citizens look only at the formal, not the material!', the difference between rich and poor, between good and bad. Look, Mr. Guijarro, it's that in democracy the formal thing is fundamental!, it's that the forms are ad solemnitatem! Forms are fundamental to democracy, absolutely essential. And don't do that to me with your finger, Mr Uralde - who knows what I have great respect for you - because I won't be able to blame any attacks on anyone in this House or treat anyone without due respect. In this sense, what you are committing is a conceptual trophie. They say this is a public property benefit in accordance with the law. I don't know how they're gonna get this into the Basque convention. I do not know whether your PNV partners are going to be upset because, in the end, only taxes are included in this agreement. They've approved a transactional with Bildu saying they'll study to see how he gets hammered into the cup and the concert. You will see what you do and, when we resort to it, who wins or who loses. But above all, it turns out that you are injuring fair competition; fair competition, which is one of the pillars of the common market!, which is one of the pillars of the European Union and which, without a doubt, is going to lead the European Commission to open a sanctioning procedure against Spain and fall to us from the octopus, precisely for this reason, for not hearing the National Commission on Markets and Competition. Because if the tax base of what is a tax simply sets it on income and only on a certain limit, it turns out that in a certain sector - banking, that of energy production - they will only tax a part of the companies that are engaged in this business and the smaller ones will compete unfairly over the larger ones, that they will have a cost of production that the others do not have. Furthermore, you say that it cannot be passed on to consumers when, for example, the European Banking Authority says that all production costs of financial institutions have to be passed on to customers. We will also get here, in fact, a sham, and as this income limit is set, we will find ourselves at an added cost in relation to banking services. Moreover, if only income, but not expenditure, is taken into account, it turns out that there is no economic capacity to tax, according to article 31 of the Constitution. They ignore our amendments such as, for example, avoiding double taxation on hydrocarbon taxes; deducting it from corporation tax; introducing deductions on decarbonisation; introducing reductions on the basis of companies based in the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla; exempting certain companies which are only distributors but not energy producers; and excluding a number of complementary activities which are carried out by these companies which are not related to the main activity. Nothing, they don't listen to us about anything. But the worst part of it is that, through a partial amendment, they impose the tax on the rich. A partial amendment tabled on the last day that only Mr Ferran Bel, who has telepathic capacity, who is able to get into the minds of legislators, has been able to present in his turn, in case of flies; a partial amendment against the partial amendment that no one knew. This prevents the opposition from putting forward an amendment to the whole of a new tax; it prevents us from putting forward partial amendments, except for Mr Bel's superpowers, and it prevents us from trading absolutely nothing. It is a tax that establishes a double taxation and a tax that you, without any blush, say you establish to end the autonomy of the autonomous communities by exonerating the property tax of certain autonomous communities that are governed by the People's Party. It is you of the multi-national republic with Euskadi regarding the Basque quota and you are the Jacobin centralists with regard to the autonomous communities that have exonerated the property tax. In short, I want to tell you that here we find your policy of good and bad and that this is the price of budgets, as last year was the rapprochement of prisoners,...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u23	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u24	... as was - term, president - the non-compliance of the sentence of 25% of the teaching in Spanish or as was the vehicular language in the teaching in Catalonia and the Basque Country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u25	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u26	We are finally debating a tax on energy, banking and big fortunes. I say at last, because it often seems that this government only acts when it feels pressure, whether it is social pressure, whether it is the political pressure of forces such as the BNG, of sovereignist forces. We had been demanding these taxes for a long time, but there was also a social pressure, because it is clear that the indecent profits of large energy companies were scandalous at a time when people could not, could not pay the light; of the bank at a time when people had difficulty paying mortgages, or the fact that there was not yet a tax on big fortunes. In any case, we are tabling amendments, because this proposal seems too generous to us. Amendments to lower the limit below: from EUR 1 billion to EUR 500 million for energy; from 800 to 400 for banking, which has not yet returned the 60 billion capitalization of bank bailout; to increase also the rates; and to turn off this decision of the, called by you, income pact, which should rather be called the pact of loss of purchasing power of the working class.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u27	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u28	Finished. We are, of course, dissatisfied with the fact that you included the tax on big fortunes by the back door in an amendment. In any case, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u29	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Valencians want to be also shipwrecks and we want to be Basques as well. We also want to manage this tax and, moreover, with all the reason of the world. We are a territory poorer than the average and, moreover, underfunded. Therefore, with more reason we want to be shipwrecks and Basques. That is why we have tabled an amendment which I hope you will support, because all it says is that the territories can also manage that 50% of this tax. Secondly, I turn right. This is simple. A portrait is made today. The portrait is if you are with the ordinary people, with the people who raise the blind, with the people who get up early or if you are with the people who heat your ass on the boards of directors; that is, if you are with the Garcías, with the Pérezs, with the Martínezs or you are with Botín, with Galán or with Amancio Ortega. Simple, easy, and you'll have the opportunity to make a good portrait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u32	We are at a time when Spanish working families are having a bad time at the same time that banks and energy companies have record profits, most suffer more as a minority accumulates without limit. And this inequality, why, where does it come from? The explanation for the right is always very simple, the explanation of inequality is merit and effort. The poor are poor because they deserve it, they have not made enough effort, and the rich are rich because they deserve it, because they have made more effort or because they have more merit. Let's see it in this case. The big energy companies and the banks have had, only until September, 25.5 billion euros of profit, 30% more than last year. Do these record benefits come because they have made an extra effort to improve the country? Are they coming because they've created more jobs? Have you discovered any new technology? Have you invented anything new? Do they come because they have generated more added value? No, they are clearly, literally, benefits fallen from heaven; in the case of banking, by doing nothing, by the rise of types; and in the case of energy, by doing nothing, by the consequences of war. I have no problem with companies having profits, that's a company, but it turns out that in this case the profits of companies are at the cost of the pocket of the Spaniards, of impoverishing our country, so the State has to intervene so that the general interest outweighs the greed of a few. I put it in very simple terms. This tax is expected to raise EUR 3 billion in the first year. What would that mean? For example, I would assume that we could hire 60,000 psychologists for mental health in the public. What do the Spanish prefer, 60,000 psychologists in the public sector or more millions in the results account of banks and energy companies? That's what we have to decide. If we have asked here today for the vote by public appeal, one by one, it is because this is a test of patriotism, and the Spaniards have the right to know for whom every Member works, whether for the Spanish people or for Iberdrola and the Banco Santander. When this tax was known, Mr Sánchez Galán, president of Iberdrola, said: We will only help if the tax is withdrawn. No, sir, you have not understood democracy, here you command popular sovereignty and you will comply as soon as this rule is adopted this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u33	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u34	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read the statement of reasons for what these charges are intended to be, you may - at least on our part - agree and we say so. Why? Because what it would be about is that those companies in certain sectors that have extraordinary profits, derived from a crisis situation and an increase in prices, make an exceptional contribution. So far so good. But one begins to read the article that you have proposed and that you have not amended, and what do you see? That the sectors that have had the most extraordinary benefits are not taxed here. I'm not gonna tell you which ones, but look at it, study it and it's gonna surprise you. Secondly, here we are not recording extraordinary benefits. You decide to apply an objective estimate; it is not the direct estimate, I calculate the extraordinary benefits and so, paid a quantity, but an objective estimate. What is the objective estimate? Income. You, if you have more income you pay more, regardless of your result account. Therefore, we cannot agree with the wording that you propose. The amendments we put forward are that they should be paid for the extraordinary benefits. The Community regulation lays down from 33%; our proposal has been 40%, but of the extraordinary benefits. And if you don't want to use the direct estimation system, extraordinary benefits, and use objective estimation, the modules - because this is nothing more than a module tax - do not use one module but several, use several indices, because they will distribute the load much more equitably. We have therefore made some amendments in order to try to change the dire situation that is currently under way in legislation, but it is not enough for us to support these charges that...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u35	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u36	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. I simply want to make it clear in this House that when the courts settle these charges negatively, no one says that it is that the courts work for the rich; the courts also work to enforce the existing legislation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u37	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u38	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We are discussing the creation of a new tax for large energy companies and banks, and we think it is very timely to do so. We are at a time of succession of economic crises that are seriously damaging the economies of many families. When it seemed that we were beginning to recover from the crisis caused by COVID-19, the war in Ukraine has led to a succession of economic consequences that could not be predicted. To an increase in inflation, which has led to a doubling of the price of food and basic services such as electricity and gas, the increase in the receipt of mortgages has to be added because of the increase in rates decreed by the European Central Bank. In many homes in the Spanish State, today and at the end of the month, dramatic decisions have to be made: pay the mortgage or fill the refrigerator; pay the receipt of light and gas or fill the refrigerator. That is why we must live up to this difficult moment, and the Republican Left will always find it next to the working classes of this country and those who suffer the most. That is why we are in favour of creating this new tax on big energy and banks, which have seen their profits increase exponentially in recent months to limits that we could call shameful; billions of euros of profit at the expense of the people who suffer the most. It is clear that we must emerge from this cluster of crises with policies different from those applied in order to emerge from the 2008 crisis when, from 2010, and with a Government of the People's Party, austerity policies were implemented that caused even more damage and poverty to those who were already having a very bad time. In times of economic crisis, expansionary policies; in times of economic crisis,redistributive policies; in times of economic crisis, those who have the most and earn the most have to contribute more. We have reached some agreements with the Government that allow us to make good progress. We welcome the fact that, thanks to our joint efforts with Bildu, at the end of the two-year period this tax can be permanent. And we have also solved a problem related to the film production sector in Catalonia and the rest of the Spanish state. We have always been at the side of culture and independent audiovisual production, and we have once again put the negotiating force of Esquerra Republicana at the service of this sector. We would have liked to have gone much further, it is clear, but today we are taking an important step towards a new way of understanding taxation. However, we have not been able to reach an agreement so that the Generalitat of Catalonia can collect the tax, or at least part of it. This same week, the Parliament of Catalonia passed a resolution so that the autonomous communities can collect this tax, by the way, with a surprising vote in favor of Citizens and the vote against the PSC. This fact, that the communities, in this case Catalunya, can collect this tax, remains an objective. In fact, if the objective of this tax - of these charges - is redistribution, it has the whole sense of the world that it is the autonomous communities that collect it as providers of basic services to citizens. It has not been possible, it remains a goal and we will continue to work for it. And one last thing: we have no problem with the vote by appeal, in Republican Left we know perfectly well where we are, always next to the people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u40	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We come back here with the issue of taxing banking and energy for extraordinary profits, now adorned with the tax on big fortunes. It is interesting what Mr Bel has told you, check where there have been more benefits than in banking and energy. He did not want to give them ideas, but Mr.Mazon did give them one: the pharmaceuticals, and I will give them another: the funeral homes. Funeral homes have made a lot of money during the crisis. [[Laughter and applause]] Mr Baldoví, if you want to be Basque and Navarro, it is easier: make yourself Spanish, a nation of equal people, regardless of the territory. You'll have it a lot more solved and so you don't have to go around so much. Mr. Regó, the 60 billion didn't go to the bank, they went to the boxes. [[Applauds]] Mr Margall, indeed, the cuts were in 2010, but it is that Mr Rajoy did not win the elections until November 20, 2011 and entered the government on December 21, 2011, and still Mr Rajoy's powers were not retroactive. [[Laughter and applause]] And then, for those who define the poor as the two lowest income deciles and complain - there have been those who complained here - that it is always 20%, of course!, 2 for 10% always gives 20%. If you define the poor as the two lowest deciles, it will always be 20%, whatever this government does, and whoever comes. [[Laughter and applause]] It's not worth much, but I'm going to stop at the three big groups of problems that this rule has. The first, the procedures. We are called on 10 November to the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen for the 15th meeting to allow the text to proceed. On the 11th day, the next day, we are also quoted not anymore to the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons, but to the Board of Spokespersons, so that half an hour after the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons we constitute the Board of Spokespersons. It is approved that the Commission will meet in 48 hours, but we will not be given the text. In forty-eight hours the vetoes of the Government are accepted, which the next day the Government raises - what it wants me to say - and on the 17th everything is approved, and today we are already discussing it. So these were the rushes, and the urgent procedure has turned you into express. This was a first group. Second group: then there are constitutional problems, as you know. It does not seem reasonable to introduce this tax on big fortunes as an amendment to the first tax text; or to assume that the new figure of the tax on big fortunes is not redundant with the property tax; or to turn the tax or, rather, the tax - it is actually a tax, although you have called it a tax - to energy and banking on income and not on profits, as we have told you. I have told him and some of those who have preceded me in speaking have told him. Thirdly, there are the economic problems in the text. Without being exhaustive, first, you seek to tax the extraordinary profits, but you tax the revenues and the financial margin, and you do not allow deducting the expenses necessary to obtain them; and, second, you are penalizing the investment in Spain, both banking and energy. They do not take into account the timing of the economic cycle, as the European Central Bank has warned them. They do not take into account cost translation problems. If you're blinding one route of cost translation, maybe we'll find another. I have already warned in this plenary when Citizens tabled an amendment to the whole, and this may happen to move to the workers. That is true, I think you are bringing an amendment to raise the minimum level of the tax on big fortunes from 3 to 3.7 million, I imagine because there is someone in the Council of Ministers who is on that stage. [[Applauds]] But none of this, nothing, nothing, none of this is important, absolutely nothing, the important is something else. It gives you absolutely the same thing whether these taxes can be applied or not, it gives you absolutely the same thing, given the legal inconsistencies and indeterminateness of which the text is plagued. It gives you the same thing that this tax can become unconstitutional. It gives you absolutely the same thing to have to return the amounts previously entered with your corresponding interest of delay. You are given absolutely the same economic consequences of the tax, because, of course, to say that we take 3 billion to these pretendedly rich and left to the state, which must be another purportedly poor, that we give them to the state, look, you do not evaluate that taxes are not only that, taxes have a series of economic consequences and you may be destroying more wealth than that which you transfer from the pocket of those taxed to the state. [[Applauds]] They haven't considered it either. If you want to end poverty, the best way to end it is to create wealth. By distributing, doing misery, which is what you are in, you do not live better. In any case, what's true is that you spend less envy, that's how it is. [[Laughter and applause]] And now I will tell you what is important, that it is not the three groups of problems that I have told you: the constitutionals, the procedurals, the economics, no, no; the important thing is that you want to say tomorrow: we put a tax on big capital and the rich and the opposition did not support it. That's what you want to say tomorrow, and it gives you the same thing as the courts will take him down in a few years. If they kill him, what will they say, that judges are macho? [[Laughter]] Or if, for example, those same judges kill him, but while you are in the opposition, will you say that the government is fascist? And you haven't done it wrong, I don't know if you're betting or just in a hurry, and what you're looking for is having a complaint by tomorrow, because you love having complaints? The totalitarian governments are characterized because they never admit the error, it is always a matter of others: of international capitalism, of the Jews, the economic elites, the judges, the masonry, the masters who smoke pure, the stage of Real Madrid, the heteropatriarchy, elneoliberalism, centralism, the Church. There are so many enemies lurking under his bed! Look at you, the enemy is in his head. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u41	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Elorriaga Pisarik has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u42	Thank you very much, President. A few minutes ago you voted for the approval of general State budgets supported by a certain estimate of revenue, and now, be surprised, we are going to discuss whether the revenues envisaged in those general State budgets should or should not be approved by this House. It is just another irregularity that adds to the many that have been committed in the processing of this proposal. [[Applauds]] But since there is no harm in not coming, I see that at least this horrific bill has served to have one of the deputies of the EH Bildu Parliamentary Group read the Constitution. [[Applauds]] You cannot be asked to understand it completely, but it is certainly already a step forward. Now yes, I must say to this Member that he is completely confused - again we go back to the data - when he says that since 1978 - I think he has said - poverty in Spain has not stopped increasing. Rigorously false, and the stats are about to see it. It is enough to see the evolution of the Spanish economy from the year 2000, it is enough to see the consistent and constant decline in poverty between the year 2000 and the beginning of the crisis in 2008, it is enough to see Spain's constant approach in per capita income to the European Union in the first decade of this century to understand that when economic policies work, when they are done with intelligence, when they move away from sectarianism, the benefit is for everyone, uniquely for those who have less. [[Applauds]] In a very hasty manner, it is intended to approve a completely uncertain tax package. Any consultation or report has been dispensed with. We really do not know what revenue these taxes are going to bring, there is no document that supports it; we do not know whether the sectors that are taxed are those that have obtained extraordinary benefits, we do not know, there is no document that supports it. What happens is that you made a hasty record of this bill when you already knew that the European regulation was in motion, a European regulation establishing a completely different tax mechanism from the one introduced by the bill. It is an approach whose only reason is to circumvent the tax regulation and to circumvent all the mandatory opinions; of course that of the Council of State, which would have been necessary to transpose the Community order, but also those of the Bank of Spain or the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which should have been of the opinion, since they are entrusted with specific tasks in this rule. They have handled it on horseback, without talking to the affected sectors, without convoking any expert and without assessing any of its consequences. They have introduced amendments in the parliamentary procedure which do not have any connection with the original text, and therefore - Mr Bal has explained very well - I would probably - dare say that absolutely - unconstitutional. They have introduced seventy vetoes to the amendments put forward by the opposition, which could not be debated in a paper, and then lifted them. There has been something essential in the voting in the Commission. Now they're approved after the budgets. I insist, it is only one, and not the most important, of the irregularities that have occurred. Now, you are following the speeches of the rich and the poor over and over again, of those who can and cannot, but it is worth remembering the words of the Socialist Party itself, because we should know what its criterion really is, what its way of thinking is. Which Socialist Party is telling the truth? The one who claimed in 2007, with a significantly lower tax pressure than the current one, that lowering taxes was left-wing and consequently eliminated the property tax, or the one that put it back in 2011? Which one was the one who was telling the truth? The one in which the presidents of their autonomous communities demanded in 2017 the complete disappearance of the inheritance tax or the one who wants to raise it now? Which one is it? Did yours, when just a few months ago you criticized an initiative of Podemos that brought exactly this proposal, or that of now, when you defend it from the Socialist Party with enthusiasm? Possibly they lie on all occasions, in 2007, in 2010 and now, because you have completely lost course, you have become a party of opportunists that simply seeks to remain in power. [[applause]] Look, all the charges, taxes and fees contained in this proposal have three things in common. One, they attack savings and investment; they deter anyone from investing in Spain, and in sight there are the consequences: auction of renewables that are not covered, exit of Spanish investments abroad, etc.; they damage Spain's reputation and deter any international investor from coming here; they create a reputational problem of first order and undermine the legal security of investment in our country, and that is what it does to impoverish all Spaniards. Second, they attack the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, superimposing a second property tax; they attack the Basque concert, no doubt; they attack it in relation to the Canary Islands, since they do not respect the third additional provision - which requires prior consultation to alter its special regime - when they alter a fundamental rate for investments there. This rule is out of any European consensus, away from all fronts, out of the regulation, out of the European Central Bank. They set two taxes on wealth when the whole of Europe has made it disappear. It is a clearly anti-European tax on all its contents. It's over now. I understand that you know that the taxes that you are going to pass today are going to be appealed - the arguments have been repeated because they are obvious most of them - and that, therefore, in all probability, most of them are going to be annulled. Yours and yours alone will be the political responsibility - and I am very sorry that not also heritage - of the enormous damage that will cause to the budget of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u43	Thank you. Mr Guijarro García has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u44	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As you know, the handling of this initiative has been characterized by the strong campaign against the tax carried out by energy companies and banks, which have the loudspeaker of a majority of the media, as well as the invaluable support of their corifees in this room, that is, the People's Party, VOX and Citizens. We have already had the opportunity to discuss its contents both in consideration and in a full debate in this House, so I will focus exclusively on very specific elements which have been controversial these days. First of all, it has been said that this initiative has been dealt with too quickly - we have heard it again today with profusion - and it has even been suggested that the relevant regulatory procedures have not been complied with, a fact that cannot be further from reality. Of course, I must confess to you that my parliamentary group was in a very haste - you have it and you have it - to ensure that those who are benefiting from a calamitous general situation compensate and pay their fellow citizens. We are coming years late, ladies and gentlemen, so our impatience is the impatience of those families who are now being drowned with a rise in light, their mortgage or products and goods on which they depend to enjoy a minimum of well-being. In any case, I challenge here any of the groups that have sprung up an alleged rollover by the groups that support the Government to explain to us what principle or regulatory step or legal precept has been violated here to merit such a large accusation. Mr Bal, you, who are a well-known and rigorous lawyer, have made a list of grievances, but at no time have you cited any regulation, any kind of statutory legal reference that swallows it; it is simply because, because you say so. Well, very well, I say no, it is already, so I have won; as I say, for I have already won. [[Applauds]] In the same vein, the opposition groups have relied on the opinion drawn up by the European Central Bank on this procedure, in compliance with their advisory powers, since it is certainly legislative on the financial system; a view, of course, which has not been too kind, since it warns the Government that this measure - I quote literally - could endanger a smooth transmission of monetary policy measures to the economy in general through banks, because - and I quote again - these institutions may register low profits or losses at the time when the tax is actually collected. Take it now! Banks may lose money. I don't know, it must be in the worlds of Yupi, because I've never seen that before. Certainly, a rise in rates tends to improve the profit margins of the bank, but it also exposes it to greater lateness and higher default rates. That's where we agree. Of course, that is why the Government has just approved a specific plan to address this situation, which will allow some families to reduce their mortgage rates by extending the repayment deadlines. I mean, it will certainly help many families - many others I fear not so much - but the one who is sure to win is the banking sector itself, which with these measures will surely see reduced, that exposure to which I referred earlier. Secondly, that opinion completely ignores any reference to all the extraordinary income that the bank has received to date - as a result of the rise in reference interest rates - either because of the increase in the price paid by borrowers of mortgage loans at variable interest rates or because of the deposit interest rate at which the Central Bank pays the excess reserves of financial institutions. This is a fact that we always forget. What is clear to me is that, once the procedure for consulting the European Central Bank has been completed, what needs to be done now is to look again at our people, those who have put us here with the very specific mandate to protect their interests and not those of an oligopolistic sector. That is why it is so worrying to hear the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, when he recently declared that the fiscal policy of the Member States should not contradict the European Central Bank. Apparently, the Vice-President has completely confused the source that legitimises his own presence in this office, that is to say, he has not learned that he is accountable to the public long before any institution is hit by a clear deficit of democratic legitimacy. He has only failed to ask for the dissolution of the Commission itself, of which he is a member, so that the black men of Frankfurt can govern us directly. In this regard, following such a serious attack of political disorientation, I see his resignation as the only decent way out left for this gentleman. The tax on energy companies has also been the subject of some controversy over the adoption of amendments in extremes. It seems to me that the first of these has no greater track record, as it is simply in line with the international tax standard and double taxation agreements that have been underwritten over the last few decades. The second does have more in common, since it could affect the estimated collection levels for this tax. Mr Elorriaga, you may not have been able to verify this, but the calculations on collection estimates are and exist. In any case, it seems to us right to exclude from this the revenues derived from regulated services, since they, by their very nature, should not experience extraordinary benefits and, in any case, will give us all something more legal certainty. In conclusion, I just wanted to warn you that these measures, which we have adopted today, and much less exhaust the path that remains until they reach a more or less sustainable situation, not only because the reforms must increase the fiscal pressure on those who have the most for the benefit of those who have the least, but because it is not just sectors such as banking or energy that are benefiting from this uncertainty situation. Here I fully agree with Mr Bal and Mr Elorriaga himself, who warned that there are indeed other sectors. Is this an argument not to tax banking and energy, or is it an argument to tax all those who continue to reap extraordinary benefits? Anyway. I am thinking, for example, in the construction sector, of some of whose large corporations are making box as if there were not a morning at the expense of the Spanish and Spanish; I am also thinking of the pharmaceuticals - Mr Bel, I do put names: pharmaceuticals - which are seeing their benefits increase dangerously, mounted again on the backs of our people. I also think that, eventually, fiscal reform will have to take on a permanent toll on these extraordinary benefits, otherwise we will not solve the long-term problem that we have and, therefore, our welfare state will be at risk. That is something that our parliamentary group could not understand, and the only way to avoid that risk is to face that profound tax reform that will make these interim loopholes - let us say - structurally covered. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u45	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u46	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I believe that today, throughout the afternoon, they have said a single truth: that we will be responsible for this tax on banking and energy. Yes, we will be solely responsible, and you, again, will be against the interests of the people of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be solely responsible. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - extendable to those of VOX and those of Citizens - how much have we talked about this tax in the last few months? I'm sorry to tell you that you don't understand anything. They remain in the same position as they were on the first day, but they have forgotten the most important thing: there is no greater interest to protect for national sovereignty than the interests of citizens; no other interest, believe me, however powerful it may be. There is no greater interest than that of citizenship. It is incredible to see in this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies how right-wing lords defend the interests of the bank and the energy companies more than the bank itself and the energy companies themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now addressing the whole of this Parliament. Ten years have passed since the rescue of financial institutions, ten years since the State's largest public contribution to an economic sector in this country. Today, ten years after that decision, it is time for the bank to contribute to society as a whole. That is why this decision is today, in addition to being necessary, a symbol of what the economic policy of this government represents: the public ahead of the private, the common interest above the individual interest, the big ones helping the little ones. It is an economic policy that is also an example of success; an economic policy that has allowed us to recover in just two years all the jobs lost during the pandemic or create jobs despite a war. It is an economic policy that has shown that we can get out of the crisis differently; that in order to grow, it is not necessary for many to stay on the road; that when families, workers, self-employed people, are better off in the economy; that when the inter-professional minimum wage is raised, when pensions are revalued with the CPI, when minimum vital income is created, when undefined contracts are created, when all that is done, ladies and gentlemen, employment is improved and our economy grows more; that when it is collected more fairly, when the IRPF is reduced to lower incomes, when contributions are reduced to the self-employed, when the VAT of light and gas is lowered to the families of this country, when the corporation tax is reduced to small and medium-sized enterprises, as this Government has done, while the large companies are brought up or a little effort is squandered to the large energy corporations, this country is more just, it is reduced to the impact of the crisis on the whole of the economy, and we are able to consolidate our markets. That is the success of the economic policy of this Government, of the Government of Spain. That's the reality. It is a policy that contrasts, yes, much, with the policy of the People's Party, with its economic policy, which took us ten years to get out of the previous crisis; which showed that there was money for the banks, while leaving the families abandoned. It was an economic policy, that of the People's Party, with which they came to have more than 6 million unemployed, the highest figure of unemployment in the history of this country; cuts, privatizations and massive tax increases that are already part of a black chapter in the economic history of this country. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is an economic policy in which they still insist, to the dictate of what the great companies of this country mark, turning the policy of the main political party of the opposition into a spectacle in which every day a new triler comes out to tell us a bigger bubble than the one of the day before. [[Applauds]] That's his economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about is that in the first months of the year, up to September, large banks and energy companies have benefited by more than EUR 25 billion, 30% more than the previous year. And in the face of that, do they really believe that these banks, that these energy companies or that the 234,000 major assets of this country with more than 3 million euros of net worth cannot make an extraordinary little effort? Can you really go out to the streets of this country and tell the people, that you're overwhelmed by the rise in prices, that they can't help? Are you really going to tell families that you have trouble reaching the end of the month that it is not time for big corporations to make that extraordinary effort? That's what you're defending here today, in case you haven't noticed, ladies and gentlemen, and that's not being relentless or unbeatable, as you say, it's just being populist, tax-book populism, first-rate politics, ladies and gentlemen. These charges are also being requested by the International Monetary Fund, which has been approved by the European Commission and to which, despite the noise, the European Central Bank does not oppose. And, on this, a consideration. As much as Mr De Guindos raises his voice, saying that these charges are going to affect credit and solvency, that is not going to become true, because his credibility - that of Mr De Guindos - is zero; the same one that told us that the bailout to the bank was going to cost the Spaniards zero euros, when today we know that it has cost more than 60 billion euros. That's Luis de Guindos, ladies and gentlemen. That was, by the way, a minister of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. This temporary levy will go ahead today in this Congress of Deputies and will allow us to raise more than €3 billion to continue to make policies to combat inequality. Today is a good day for Spain, that Spain that is moving forward and doing so more firmly towards a better future for its people. That, when the noise goes out, that's what's left, and it'll make this a better country. Thank you to all who make it possible today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u48	We turn to the point concerning the opinion of the draft law on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I would like to begin by acknowledging the work that has been done in the Commission to bring forward this very important development cooperation law, highlighting, of course, the participation and co-responsibility of the various non-governmental organizations in this process. Thank you very much, comrades. [[Applauds]] The final result, believe me, has been a good opinion; it can be improved, of course, from our point of view, on establishing, among other things, more horizontal and more decentralized cooperation relations, but a good opinion. Having said that, it is now up to me to defend an amendment tabled, which I will put to this House for consideration, because it is very important to my land. No one can deny that we live in an interdependent world, on an economic, political, environmental level, and one's actions or inactions affect us all. In that connection, we are quite clear about the role of development cooperation and the structural measures that we must take in a globalised model, under an economic model that already assumes obvious incompatibility with life itself, but has powerful power groups that continue to strive to maintain it. The UN warns that more than 1800 million people will migrate throughout this century, fleeing from misery, wars, the consequences of almost irreversible climate change. Even so, at that recent COP 27 summit, drastic decisions were not made, let alone recognition of the role of Western countries in climate change. [[The lady]] The final agreement knows him all. It was the creation of a fund for more exposed countries... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u50	Wait a minute, Mrs. Pita. Please, can you keep quiet?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u51	Thank you, President. He said that the final agreement, as we all know, is the creation of a fund in the most exposed countries so that they can cope with the losses and damage that this climate change generates and will generate. Just nothing, nothing in the face of the tremendous scream that the planet is giving. Meanwhile, we continue to rely on fossil energies. I am going to give some data, because they are always enlightening and, in this case, shaking. Nearly 14 million children under the age of five suffer from acute and severe malnutrition; 800 million people go to bed hungry every night; 26 million people in the Horn of Africa today face a critical food shortage. People fleeing wars, persecutions, conflicts have surpassed more than 70 million souls. These are some of the reasons why Goal 16 of the SDGs - peace, justice and strong institutions - recognizes that social justice and peace, and social justice and peace are necessary to advance the effective enjoyment of rights and sustainable development. And this is precisely where we believe It is essential that Spanish cooperation plays a key and transformative role, and the Canary Islands can and wants to be a central part in this. My land has been characterized by a majority of bets on the peaceful resolution of their conflicts, assuming, with a coherence that flees from resignation - do not be mistaken - that it is possible to live with difference and that diversity is an inexhaustible source of wealth. My countryman, Viera and Clavijo, said that the islands have been - and I say they are - the master key of the Atlantic Ocean. The amendment that we come to defend here today seeks precisely to be a key to peace and good-neighbourly relations between the African continent, to which we belong geographically, to Latin America, which is where part of our roots and our memories walk, and, of course, Europe, because in the Canary Islands, ladies and gentlemen, we claim peace as an identity issue, since we did not give the NATO referendum, to the most recent struggle that our youth has waged peacefully to paralyse the construction of hotels in areas of special protection. Our amendment, ladies and gentlemen, ultimately seeks that in this law of cooperation and development - because there is no better legal framework, Mary, there is no better legal framework - the canary Atlantic platform archipelago for peace, human development and good-neighbourly relations is declared. See what you claim, nothing more and nothing less. Because we are among the African, American and European continents, taking advantage not only of our unbeatable geopolitical situation, but also of our tricontinental status and cultural affinity with the global south, which is fundamental to articulate policies for multilateral development. In the Canary Islands we are diverse and plural, and we all live together in the same land. As a popular saying goes, the small part of humanity living in the Canary Islands has the quality of having the feet in Africa, the head in Europe and the heart in America, and this condition makes us unique in wanting to be the key to less self-centered cooperative relations, able to listen to other ways of seeing the world and, above all, to promulgate peace as a central element for the well-being of all the inhabitants of the earth. [[The lady]] It is imperative to abandon once and for all the death policies that Europe seeks at its borders. We're tired of playing that dantesque role. We do not want to be a prison, a detention centre, or anyone's border; in the Canary Islands, ladies and gentlemen, we want to be a road, not a grave. Among many other central elements, we share the condition of subalternity with the global south. Colonialism in the Canary Islands began, as in the whole world, with violence, slavery, massacres, rapes; that was the balance that left my land, as in so many others, the arrival of the first Europeans and yet we still exist as a people. That's why we long for peace, that's why we don't want any war to stain our land or anyone's land again. That is why we want to build bridges that promote the potential of the Canary Islands as a point of union, as a bet for a dignified, more egalitarian, fairer future. Our planet and the people who inhabit it need hope, it needs peace, it needs future, it needs to gather strength for that struggle, essential for that other better world, what is the task of everyone and everyone. Please let our islands be the first step in that direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pita. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u53	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, and good afternoon to all and everyone. I am speaking on behalf of the Basque Group, and they will allow me to begin to contextualise our position by talking about Basque cooperation; a cooperation that has had as its only fundamental driving force the solidarity and alliances between different actors that are decisive in the field of cooperation: the organizations that push from civil society, the public institutions and also the organized movements of the peoples of the South, of what in the field of cooperation are called peoples of the South, although they are not always in the peoples of the South. [[EAJ-PNV]] The fundamental values and objectives of Basque cooperation, which has produced such good results, have always been solidarity, justice, dignity and identity. That struggle and struggle to try to eradicate the poverty of many peoples and to help many people who are suffering situations of inequality and injustice has produced excellent results and we were afraid that some obstacle would arise. When we read the bill that came to Congress our fear was that this bill could really be an obstacle to the Basque model of cooperation and many other models of decentralized cooperation, which would make us constrained and prevent us from further progressing and improving in the results that it could deliver. What problem did we see and what was the reason why our parliamentary group tabled an amendment in its entirety? In considering the policy of cooperation as a State policy - as regulated by Law 2/2014 on Action and Foreign Service, a law that was passed after the previous Law on Cooperation - the draft law that came to this Congress was imbued in many aspects and articles of its operative part with an absolutely centralizing approach, and in our parliamentary group we saw it as a risk, as I said before, so that effectively decentralized cooperation from different places could continue to have its own identity and its own ability to move forward. That is why we tabled the amendment as a whole, which we finally withdrew, after acquiring and assuming the Government's commitment to review all those aspects that had such a centralizing approach. Thus, we have now tabled thirty-two partial amendments, most of which have been adopted by compromise agreements signed with different parliamentary groups or adopted directly as such. What has been achieved? I will focus on three of the fundamental aspects that have been reorientated. First, to take into account effectively the reality and capacity of the various actors of decentralized cooperation, autonomous communities and local authorities in various aspects. The explanatory statement itself - and it has also been incorporated in article 35 - states that the actions of the autonomous communities will be governed by their own statutes, by their own laws of cooperation and guided by the lines of action that are established in their own parliaments, which was fundamental to us. In addition, in all those articles that speak of planning, monitoring, implementation, evaluation, all this is confined solely and exclusively to the scope of the General Administration of the State, because the autonomous communities and local authorities have their own capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate. In addition, the master plan and all its planning actions are confined exclusively to the scope of the General Administration of the State, respecting the competence of autonomous communities and local authorities or their capacity to act. Furthermore, it seems to us that the safeguard of competition that has been included, in which it is said that everything will be done with scrupulous respect for the field of competition, is essential from the point of view of our parliamentary group. [[The lady]] I cannot fail to make a special mention of something that is included for the first time, which is the possibility for the autonomous communities to be able to make delegated cooperation within the European Union, as set out in the legal frameworks. It is a historic demand of the various actors of decentralized cooperation. Article 35 also includes that both autonomous communities and local authorities will be able to access different programmes in different European and international fields on the basis of their specialization. In addition, something that was very important to us has been incorporated, and it is the possibility that the autonomous communities can establish positions and articulate within the scope of some international forums. This is something that has been claimed and that, according to the doctrine, they have the capacity to do so. In the area of de-bureaucratization, many of the actors working in the field of international development cooperation claim that they have their own uniqueities and that steps should be taken to de-bureaucratize. We must simplify, be more effective and be able to manage better and more easily within the scope of subsidies. We keep six amendments alive, including areas of competence or of strengthening the definition, improving it in some respects, and we also call on the autonomous communities and local authorities to be able to truly subscribe to partnership frameworks and country alliances. Finally, what we want and would like is for this law to really serve to meet the objectives for which we are fighting from different areas of international development cooperation: to eradicate poverty, to implement human rights and peace policies, to combat inequalities, to establish alliances and exchanges at horizontal levels that serve as common learning processes, to tackle complex and complex problems that need structured responses, and more in contexts such as the current one...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u54	You have to finish, Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u55	... of great uncertainties as a result of the crises. I'm on my way, President. In short, we want the same for other peoples and populations on the planet as we want for the Basque people: justice, solidarity, dignity, identity and sustainable human development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, minister. For several years now, Spain had ceased to be a recipient country of international development assistance, joining the group of States that had a global awareness and assumed as a necessity and an opportunity cooperation between States, between international organizations and between the former and the latter to make this world a better and safer place for the whole of human society. Therefore, as some consider, we are not faced with something new or in the product of a mysterious government in the shadow or in the global conspiracy of not knowing who to make fall a world based on the sovereignty and independence of the States that make up it. Not only are we not in that situation, but international cooperation for development and global solidarity is precisely the proof that sovereign and independent States are capable of deciding and agreeing among themselves on how to establish standardized development goals in social, economic and democratic terms. That is international cooperation, and those are the agendas that are regularly agreed upon in international forums that many fear, simply because they do not understand them or because they do not accept them from interested and short-term positions. In Spain, the 1998 law has already taken an important step along this path of providing us with a legal and institutional framework in line with all the countries in our environment. More than twenty years later, the world has evolved and changed, as have the challenges we face; more so, especially in recent years, it is when the need to adapt this legal and institutional framework to the new reality has become more evident. On that path, this Congress launched a subcommission to analyse what that normative framework should be, and that subcommission drew its conclusions at a strange time, but at the same time timely, due to the global pandemic. In those conclusions was my party, Citizens, in our conviction, as I have always maintained, that Spanish cooperation is a public service, a public service that we all pay and that is provided outside our borders to other people who need our help. Moreover, this conviction is based not only on a paternalistic vision of collaboration between individuals and between States, but also on a deeply liberal vision, which sees the other as an equal, exactly with the same rights, a liberal vision of the world that respects diverse, democratic and competitive societies, and thus seeks a freer and safer world. That is why we have based our position before this bill on four main points, from which we have made our contributions. We did it in that subcommittee and in this parliamentary procedure through the amendments tabled. These four points are: firstly, cooperation tailored to the challenges posed to us by the current global world, which makes humanitarian aid a main tool due to emergencies or disasters; secondly, efficient and sustainable cooperation with all its coordinated actors, which must be planned, evaluated and accountable for impact and results; thirdly, cooperation with sufficient material and human resources to enable the cooperative personally and professionally to maximize its talent and capacity; and fourthly, desideological cooperation free of complexes and demagogues, which fully integrates the private sector with its resources and experience. We want cooperation to make us better able to contribute in this way to a better world, and for this we have amended the law and have seen - I must say, as I must also acknowledge and thank - many of our amendments incorporated into the original text. Thanks to the other groups for the work done, as well as to the technical work of those who made it possible. With our amendments, we have worked together to ensure that cooperation has a state policy vocation that must last beyond a specific government. We believe that the law has an undoubted liberal seal and from Citizens we welcome it, but we must continue to make progress in recognizing our companies that work more easily today for international organizations or for other States than for their own Government. Today they have more difficulty working with the AECID or the autonomous agencies of cooperation than with other international actors, but above all we must consider them as complementary and compatible with the NGOs, which is the other great actor of cooperation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u58	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u59	Likewise, in this law we have focused on the concept of research in cooperation, from the conviction that from the evidence we can also design policies in this increasingly better area. But we continue to be critical of the model of public policy evaluation that this law establishes, because it dilutes the necessary independence and separation between the evaluated body and the evaluating body. The risk of turning independent evaluation into mere justification is - we believe - still too great. Finally, we would have liked that this nature of cooperation, as part of Spain's external action, would have been more clearly reflected in the norm, that collaboration between the State, autonomous communities and other public or private institutions had a framework of action that would eliminate the risk of contradictions, duplication or inefficiencies. If we are talking about a State policy, we must be able to institutionally structure what, how and for what of cooperation, something that is not at all in conflict with the jurisdictional division of our Constitution; make no mistake, one thing is decentralizing and another is dismantling. Ladies and gentlemen, not being a perfect legal text, it is a much better text than the outcome of the Council of Ministers. In the certainty that it can be even better, I ask you to vote in favour of the amendments that we have kept alive to fully recognize the presence of the private business sector, including at institutional level, to explicitly integrate international trade into the action of Spanish cooperation or to reach that desired 15% of official development aid in humanitarian aid, as we agreed in the subcommittee, and that it was a commitment of all those who integrated it in its day. Honestly and simply, it's about finishing to improve the law a little bit more. We believe that these amendments can be made and I therefore reiterate to you the request for support for them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u60	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u61	Good afternoon, I'm speaking from the seat. I begin by reiterating our thanks to all the participants and to all the people and organizations who, along this path that began in the year 2021 with the creation of a subcommission, have sent us their comments because, frankly, they have been very useful to us. While the phase in Congress ends today, the phase in the Senate opens. Therefore, not everything will end this evening-night. The number of amendments that had been submitted to the draft law demonstrated the interest of the various parties and also that the text that the Executive referred to the Legislature needed to be amended in various respects. For this reason, Junts per Catalunya tabled fifteen amendments, giving priority to what was essential to us, priority, our red lines, that is, decentralised cooperation and delegated cooperation. These are amendments which reflect the position of the previous Directorate-General for Cooperation of the Generalitat de Catalunya and which also reflect demands of the coordinator and the Fons Català de Cooperació, among other things, which has not prevented us from giving support, of course, to requests from other collectives who have indeed gathered other political parties. The text resulting from the paper and the Commission contains a number of our amendments, but there are still seven for which we ask for our support. Some of them have to do with a more economic aspect, because we believe that, if cooperation is to be achieved, it must be translated into goals and objectives set or reflected in the budgets, although it is also true, and we must not forget, that although the budgets have been adopted today - you have approved them - then it is to be seen what is being implemented from these budgets, and we have already had many examples that this is not always being done. [[The lady]] A second group of amendments concerns decentralised cooperation and the preservation of competences. If we believe in decentralized cooperation, we must ensure their participation at all stages of the process of developing and drawing up the master plan, including its adoption. The third block of amendments is that of delegated cooperation. In these amendments which we keep alive, basically, what we advocate is the participation of the communities in the cooperation of the European Union. If communities have internal competence, they must also be able to exercise it in the supranational sphere. The Constitutional Court has not questioned this and European Union law allows it without any obstacles. The experience recognised as successful in decentralized cooperation is an endorsement of its ability to access and manage delegated cooperation. Junts at the time welcomed the subcommission's report, although it did not logically coincide with one hundred percent of what we would have liked. We did so for the sake of consensus and also because we thought that the law would be further processed. It is true that the current text has advanced with respect to the initial draft law, and this is due to a collective effort... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u63	...as other speakers have said a moment ago. But this is also what allows us not to oppose this text. However, there are a number of red lines that we have pointed out since the beginning in Junts per Catalunya, and delegated cooperation, I have already said, is one of these red lines. Delegated cooperation is, from our point of view, where insufficient progress has been made. The new law does not provide a substantial improvement in the cooperation that is already being done. Throughout the whole parliamentary process, we have been prepared to reach agreements, as I think the negotiators have seen. We have had a predisposition until the last moment, but the Government has not responded favourably to our proposal to find a common position in delegated cooperation, all for the benefit of cooperation in general. The Government has not had enough will to negotiate, and in Juntas we remain faithful to the objectives that we announced at the beginning of the legislative process, we are consistent with them and our priorities; priorities and objectives that we maintain and that we defend regardless of which political party votes the same as we do. I don't know if Mrs Mínguez is in the Chamber now, but we don't care about the picture, what we care about is the background, the content. Of course, we want development cooperation to move forward, and that is why we regret that this opportunity is being missed to take a step further; an advance that would help to increase the potential of Catalan cooperation, is true, but also of Spanish cooperation as a whole, and you give us the impression that you do not bet on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u65	Thank you very much, President. Along the same lines as MEP Meri Pita, he quoted Berta Cáceres: "Let us awaken humanity! There's no more time. Our consciences will be shaken by the fact that we are only contemplating self-destruction based on capitalist, racist and patriarchal depredation." [[Applauds]] Thanks to the esteemed Cristina Bedmar, to Marta Rosique, to all the cooperation sector of Esquerra Republicana and many thanks... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] If it were not for your knowledge and incidence, we would not be here today to pass this necessary law, the result of a shared advance, which has great support from the actors of the internationalist cooperation and solidarity of the whole State, and which today should have broad support from this House. We also appreciate the good working climate and dialogue proposed by the ministry, AECID and parliamentarians. In Republican Left we are useful, and an example of that is the acceptance and transaction of 65.5% of our fifty-eight amendments to this law. Amendments that make up the four main principles of cooperation: political consensus, decentralized cooperation, the participation of all social actors and education for development as a key element in mobilizing citizens. But what has Esquerra achieved with this militancy in utility? First, that cooperation be truly decentralized, that is, the shielding and recognition of competence in cooperation for the development and international solidarity of the autonomous communities and local governments. Secondly, that local governments and autonomous communities can participate in delegated cooperation programmes of the European Union. Thirdly, the role played by municipalities and local funds for cooperation and solidarity should be recognised, with the first administrations actually devoting 0.7% to cooperation and development. Fourthly, financial cooperation should be integrated into the whole system of cooperation and not as a trade promotion mechanism in Spain. Fifth, that the grant law be amended to exempt developing subsidies from foreign policy and that they are incompatible with the nature of their recipients. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u66	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u67	Thank you, President. Sixthly, that all the actions of Spanish cooperation contemplate the specific rights, needs and vulnerabilities of children and adolescents, always under a gender approach, with allocation of resources and with feminist representation in the future architecture of the Spanish cooperation system. Seventh, that legislation should guarantee the feminist and ecological approach, which should promote civic and democratic space, the culture of peace, sustainable development, global justice and human rights. And much more we have achieved, obviously, not only Republican Left, it has been a law of much consensus. But despite the participatory capacity that has allowed us to focus on very important issues, and despite the broad-mindedness of this rule, consensus has not been able to do everything. There are many fringes left out of the law, and I point only four of them. First, decentralized cooperation. We have insisted to the point of satiety because we are very concerned, because although they have tried to convince us otherwise, the text obviously had serious shortcomings in this regard. It is vital that the good work that has been done in Catalonia or Euskadi for years is collected, for just two examples. [[continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] But not only from this administrative level, we have had to initiate through amendments and transactions what should have been recognised from the outset: that public cooperation in Spain was born from the local world. Long before the General Administration of the State moved from neocolonialism to development policy, municipalities were already working side by side with NGOs, generating local development with communities in the global south. Because of its importance, in particular for local technical cooperation, we still do not understand, Minister, the reluctance to go directly to Europe to seek sources of financing and participation in European projects, or to see the added value of decentralized cooperation strengthened by local governance. Decentralised cooperation is one of the most enriching elements of the system of cooperation in the Spanish State, and not doing what is impossible for it to be fully developed is a mistake that we cannot allow. Thus, in the regulatory deployment of the law, it should be noted that this reality is assumed, not in disdain, but in a spirit of loyal collaboration. Second, policy coherence for sustainable development. It is necessary to land the content beyond the generic abstractions and concepts. This must be done, we must stop conditioning cooperation to securitisation - which I personally think is very important - and we must minimise the negative impact of measures that prioritize the externalisation of borders, Minister, for the control of migration or the manufacture and marketing of armaments. For the culture of PAZ it is education and therefore we advocate the need to ensure a minimum of 3% of official development aid for this purpose. Third, the capacity for predictability and, therefore, for forecasting. The master plan should be able to be revised within a fixed period of time and should always be based on the criterion of policy coherence. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Financial cooperation is another issue. We welcome the replacement of FONPRODE, always with implementation problems, by a new system, but it cannot fall into the usual mistakes. Dialogue is needed with the main actors in cooperation, in particular NGOs, because they are ultimately experts in this area.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u68	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u69	Yes, I have one sentence left, Madam President. They are the experts in the field so that the tools are truly useful to development and not to the entrepreneurial approach. Esquerra will always be at the side of development cooperation for internationalist solidarity and global responsibility. Dedicating 0.7 per cent to this objective is a moral imperative. And it really ended with a sentence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u70	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish. It's the rules.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u71	It's just a phrase from this book that I read and liked very much. [[Shows a book entitled The New Cooperation]] Just one sentence. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u72	Mrs. Carvalho, please, a sentence and you have to finish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u73	I ended up with a sentence from comrade Miquel Castillo who gave me this book from which I learned a lot. [[Rumors and Protests]] It says the following - it is a very small phrase -: This afternoon we will pass a law that, within its possibilities, will lead us along the path of equity and feminism here and throughout the world. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho, your time is up. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Two minutes has given him.- Rumors]] And I would ask speakers that when they are given time to say a sentence, it should not be a two-minute sentence. Thank you very much. [[Laughter and applause]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez del Real, when you can.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u75	I also bring a very nice book: At first there was nothing and God... Well, I'm not going to read them the whole book, because I'm sure they'd give me exactly. The same time as the other speaker, I'm sure. [[Applauds]] Minister, thank you very much for your presence. Unfortunately, I have to inform you - because you have not followed the debate this morning, which has been very intense and entertaining - that I have declared myself this morning blue seat, specifically in which you are. Be careful not to declare that you are exercising gender-based violence against a poor blue chair. I'm telling you for fun, 'cause then they tell me I'm really bad. [[Applauds]] Those who aren't busy are these two, and it goes on seats this. [[Notes the seats of the first secretary of the Bureau, Mr Pisarello Prados, and the second secretary of the Bureau, Mr Sánchez Serna]] They're not here. Are you hiding for some reason the two gentlemen who were yelling at a lady here yesterday? No one has asked for forgiveness yet because yesterday they shouted from the Bureau of Congress to my partner. [[Applauds]] Are you hiding them for some reason? Have you asked for forgiveness yet? Have you asked for forgiveness? No, no, [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u76	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u77	The good thing is to go up to the rostrum with the absolute freedom to think that this can be your last speech here, I recommend it to you; to come in here every day thinking that tomorrow I am no longer because the voters throw me out, do not choose me or I have decided to go to my previous professional private life. [[A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Either you take a nap.-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. The speaker was perfectly heard from the Chair and could not be taken off the floor. Go on, Mr. Sánchez del Real.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u79	You have freedom, not like that gentleman who told me he had to take a nap. Thank you so much. You throw it away now that you can sleep, now that you sleep with those who took the dream away from the lord of this other seat. [[Marks the seat of the President of the Government]] You're taking naps! [[Laughter and applause]] I repeat, one has the freedom to say what one thinks, what one defends, even if you are shouted fascist or Nazi. Whatever. That's the freedom some of us have, because at any time we can take that door and go to a full life, like the one we had. On the other hand, some of you are trapped here by the arrangements and hooks you have with this gentuza. I'm on it. Minister, for you worse, because you can pass us every day, but with the cycle we have of changing ministers, I would be with the face you have right now: tense, tense. [[Laughter]] Because, of course, the expiration date is coming. [[Minister makes negative signs]] No, you too sleep well by sleeping with the person who is sleeping with this Government. Well, perfect, it's reflected. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u80	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u81	I wouldn't stay calm when we're talking about something as serious as 4040 million euros that the Spanish of all kinds and conditions generously contribute: the rich, the poor, the mid-pensioners; everyone contributes to the 4 billion. [[The Lord]] We are being proposed here a bill to which we have already tabled an amendment to the whole of which was based on three or four things. First of all, we do not think that Spain's sovereignty is being transferred to undefined third institutions. This about global governance we don't know who it is, we don't know who they have chosen, we don't know where they meet, we don't know who they serve exactly. Secondly, because of the emptiness of this law. This law does not adequately regulate two issues: the change of FONPRODE and how this money will be managed. Thirdly, for the duty of protection. We are presenting an amendment as a whole - I think it is still legal in this democracy to present an amendment as a whole - and you have taken off with statements about this absolutely deplorable group. We had this conversation and then you didn't want to give me a reply; there you are with your political courage. However, the PNV also tabled an amendment in its entirety and did not tell them any of that. How curious that the rules here are different depending on whether you are more friendly or more necessary! This rule is not what it should have been. Minister, this rule does not focus on humanitarian aid and cooperation, as it should have done. Kabul, September 2021; or in a few weeks, probably on the border between Ukraine and Moldova or between Ukraine and Poland. Because of the ideological priorities given to this law, do you really believe that people were coming to Kabul - or will they get to the border - to try to catch the last plane with the notes of the last course of feminism? Do you think that someone, by collecting the last things in Lvov or in a small town in Ukraine, is going to take the last book of the vulva self-perception talk that might have given you Spanish cooperation? Do you really believe that these are the priorities that Spain should have in the world in cooperation and in humanitarian aid? [[Applauds]] Hunger, thirst, cold and education of truth; the truth: that of mathematics, that of science, that of history, that of language. That we should have been and should have been the priority of this law, but no, you prefer to hand over Spain and privatize, because this privatizes. An NGO does not cease to be a private entity. You, who have this aversion to the private, decide that NGOs are not private, they are something else, they are kind of a strange hybrid. No, they're private entities. Look, I'm not disrespecting you. They're very laudable. I love the private, just like I love the public, but this of some yes and, however, as has already been said, close the door to companies... If we are going to have to face hunger, cold or lack of energy, it turns out that we have Spanish companies, some public companies, that could be helping the cooperation to develop energy, agriculture or water projects. But no. What a coincidence! It is better to ideology and privatize, that yes, always for those closest to you. Minister, I don't know if it's settled if you sleep well. I do not know whether this law meets the criteria of being at the service of Spain, of its security, of its citizenship, of democracy based on the Constitution and not on the ideas of the part. If it's too simple! We have a book that is the Constitution; I am not going to read it, calmly, because I will not be given the two minutes that have been given to the previous speaker despite the interruptions I have had. We base our cooperation on this: in the defence of the Spanish Constitution. If you want to cooperate with your ideas, I invite you to fundraising and make the cooperation you want; we can do so too, because there is freedom. But the public, which is of all, let us do what is of all, which is the Constitution. [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. Minister, there is also the one with whom, because you have fallen into decentralized cooperation, which will bring inefficiency, high risks for the cooperators themselves and, above all, nation risks, because if the false Catalan embassies were already a risk for Spain...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u82	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u83	I demand the same time that Mrs Carvalho has been given.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u84	Thank you so much. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Protests.- Mr. Sánchez del Real remains in the rostrum]] Your time's up. [[Mr Sánchez del Real, who remains in the rostrum: This is the equality of the PSOE]] Your time's up. I don't know what you're telling me. Thank you so much. [[Mr Sánchez del Real leaves the rostrum.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand.- Mr Pisarello Prados calls for the floor.]] Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u85	For allusions, using Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I simply want to say that this is the second time on the day that Mr Sánchez del Real is speaking offensively to the members of the Bureau. We are not "those two". I'm first secretary of the Congressional Bureau. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!-Rumors.-Applause]] Out of respect for this House, I ask you to maintain that decorum. It's not the first time he's done it and he hasn't done it to me alone. [[Rumors and Protests]] Here have been used those same falsehoods of which Mr Sánchez del Real has spoken, saying things that are absolutely false. [[Protests]] It has been done with ministers, it has been done with women deputies, it has been done with socialist people, it has been done with republican people, it has been done with independence people and it has been done with people because of their gender origin. [[Applauds.-Strong Protests]] Mr President, that is intolerable in a democratic Parliament. [[Applauds]] And I'm done. Perhaps Mr Sánchez del Real thinks that a lie repeated a thousand times can be a truth, as Goebbels said, but that is not the case and none of the Democrats will tolerate it. Thank you. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u86	Thank you very much. [[Mr Sánchez del Real asked for the floor.- Various Members: By allusions!- Protests]] Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs. Gázquez, you can start anytime you want. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u87	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. We are on an important day for Spanish cooperation, for all the destination countries with which we cooperate with full conviction and for the co-operators, a fundamental pillar for cooperation without which it could not be possible. My group recognizes them and thanks them for their service and solidarity in generally very painful and sensitive situations. Thank you very much to all of them. Many thanks to colleagues from other parliamentary groups for their work and attitude in the paper and in the Commission. Thank you very much also to the Commission's lawyer. Many thanks to my counterpart in the Senate, Alberto Fabra, for his joint work; and, in my case, especially thanks to my colleague in the Office and Commission, Gabriel Elorriaga - I can't find him now - with whom he is happy to work and from whom you always learn. Ladies and gentlemen, after almost twenty-five years of Law 23/1998 of 7 July on International Development Cooperation, we all agreed that the time had come to adapt to the many changes and advances and to globalization. For months we have worked in the legislative field listening to all the actors involved in cooperation - many are here today - always in favour of cooperation with the countries of destination, of the co-operators and of the values involved in cooperation. The People's Party deeply believes in development cooperation. I would like to remind you that it was the government of President Aznar who for the first time bet on cooperation and legislated the only and current law that our country has had. On that occasion, as always, we made it clear that we are a state party and that we are a government with state policy when we govern, and that was how we then accepted the Socialist Group's amendments. I would like to recall that it was also a government of the People's Party, that of Mariano Rajoy, that signed the Paris Agreement and assumed the 2030 Agenda. We have worked towards an agreement, we have negotiated many of our amendments and we have caused some of them to lapse for the sake of consensus. We have even been considered and have not rejoiced at the notorious lack of coordination between ministries that reflected the law. The purpose of our amendments, as you are well aware, has been to improve this law, because they are all within the scope of the project's objectives. Among the amendments that remain alive, we request that the Secretariat of State submit an annual report to the General Courts on the evolution of the values of democracy and freedom in the countries where we operate. Spain enjoys principles and values, all within the framework of the European Union, the Charter of the United Nations and international law, which we wish to be shared by all the citizens of the planet and, in particular, in those countries which receive our cooperation. Well, I said that Spain enjoys; we are confident that we will continue to enjoy if this Government does not continue to destroy the rule of law as with the proposed law that we are going to deal with this afternoon by removing the crime of sedition to the letter for those who committed it. We hope to continue to enjoy that rule of law that we are so proud of. [[Applauds]] Continuing with our amendments, the objectives and principles governing Spanish cooperation policy need to include education in cooperation as a social lift towards personal growth and development; we must consider education as a principle, not an end. In Amendment 88 we propose a text that includes all women, regardless of their age, because all women must be protected. I want to stop here because, frankly, the pain and unprotectiveness that we are suffering deserves a second. We again ask for the resignation of Minister Montero for the lack of protection she is leading us to women and, especially, for the pain she is causing us. [[applause]] In Oviedo today has been a particularly hard day - we have here an Asturian deputy from Podemos and I think Mr. García Morís is also - because a father who raped his daughter for thirteen years turns out that he will be able to accept this law of the only yes. The girl, who is older today, narrates in the press her suffering and her pain. All my affection for Ana and my firmest request to resign to Minister Montero for the pain she is causing our society for her error, of which I was warned. [[Applauds]] By the way, at the international level, women do not seem to matter so much to certain parties either, because I do not see how they protect Iranian women; I have seen neither a single proposal nor a single initiative in favour of Iranian women. We are taking it to the next Commission and we hope that it will be adopted unanimously. Continuing with the proposals for improvements to the law, accountability in all democratic societies and States is essential. We cannot ignore that for the destination countries of our cooperation, and we therefore call on the international management systems to govern aid to the partner countries. Another issue of concern is the higher council, which must be represented by all actors and we advocate that this composition be determined by regulation. We must also recognize the role of the EMFF in the Sectoral Cooperation Conference. Transparency and guarantees in the procedure have to be present in the law, we cannot leave gaps that give rise to nepotism. Therefore, we believe that the management staff of AECID should be professional with experience and that the procedure is guaranteed through merit and capacity in public call; it is essential that it be public call. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we demonstrate every day that we are a state party that does state policy. We will always want the best for Spain and for cooperation because we believe in it, and this commitment we endorse through the fifty-six amendments that we tabled at the beginning and the eight that we are defending here today. I appeal to the State sense of the Socialist Party, because one cannot make state policy with whom one wants to break the State. Do it with the People's Party, I insist we're there. Only with a State policy are we stronger; only with a real State policy do we improve the international image of Spain. We cannot support this law because it has shortcomings like the ones I have exposed, but neither are we going to propitiate even the slightest stop, because out there we need a lot. That is why we shall abstain. But parliamentary procedure remains, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group; parliamentary procedure remains in the Senate. Let us make this law continue to reflect the great country we are and improve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u88	Thank you so much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors.-Mr. Aragonese Mendiguchia pronounces words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us see if we are measured in our appreciation. [[Rumors]] I have already explained this to the Vice-President and Secretary Adolfo Suárez, who asked for the floor at the time for allusions, going down from the Bureau, taking the floor and returning to the Bureau, as Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure states. So I ask you, please, once and for all, to close this chapter and continue with the debate. Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u89	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, Mr. President. By the way, I belong to the Euskal Group Herria Bildu, not the Joint Group, because I think there has been a small mistake there.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u90	I'm wrong, excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u91	It's okay. Today we come to the end of months and months of work, a work that began with that Sub-Commission study on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity, and we have finished with the draft law and the report of a paper that came to the Commission, and I think it is time to congratulate ourselves on the work that has been done. But I would also like to congratulate in particular those who have advocated dialogue at all times and for reaching consensus with all the disposition, since even last summer I do not think they had a vacation trying to reach a positive text. I want to personalise our thanks to María Guijarro and Belén Fernández for the work done, because I think it has been exemplary. Similarly, I do not forget the provision of Mr Leis and the Secretariat of State, Mrs Cancela. [[Headed to the guest gallery]] Thank you very much, it's been a pleasure. We are going to vote in favour, as we said, but I also want to say that it is not the text that we would have liked - I suppose it is not for practically any - but we believe it is more than acceptable. It's a law that's better than the one there was. As the spokesman for the People's Group himself acknowledged, it had become obsolete and it was time to review so that it could cover aspects of a changing world and with different situations that are now to be addressed. We tabled thirty-five amendments, many of which coincided with those tabled by other groups, because a large part came from civil society. I thank all the NGOs and the coordinators of both the State and the Basque Autonomous Community for the work and contributions they have made to us. I used to hear the Republican Left comrade say that 65% of her amendments had been adopted; in our case it was a little bit more, it was 85%. But this is not so much about figures, but that we believe they improve the initial text. I was already saying that the result is not the one that we would like at all - because who is satisfied at all?-, but we do believe it is positive. Moreover, as Mrs Gorospe said, it was important to address issues that were particularly relevant to us, especially with the role she played in Euskal Herria, with the historical role played by the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, in matters such as decentralised cooperation. That is why we have had this long debate with the Socialist Group, but also with the AECID on Articles 35 and 36, which we believe are much better than they were. We have not kept any amendments alive, although it is true that they coincided with others who have other groups and we will vote in favour of them because we would like them to be included in the final text, but we still say that we are satisfied and that we believe that it is a text and a rule that remains in good place. [[The lady]] I ended by recalling that almost a month ago several spokespersons for the Cooperation Commission had the opportunity to go on a study trip to Senegal. During that stay in Senegal, a representative of the co-workers on the ground approached us and gave us a manifesto in which they urged us to pass the law as soon as possible. I believe that these people - probably many of them will be following this debate - were content, but we too, regardless of the political position we have. In our case, we are Basque independenceists and Basque leftists, we do not deny it, but, in an internationalist spirit and of solidarity everywhere and in every institution in which we are, we believe that we must support the best instruments for international cooperation for development and solidarity; and this one we believe is one of them. We will now also have the opportunity to vote on the amendments and, as has already happened in the Commission, we will vote in favour of those we share and believe that they can further improve the text. In any case, today is a day to congratulate us and to rejoice, because we are going to adopt a text that we believe is positive, acceptable and something else. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can in common Galicia in common, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for being here. Out of respect for the work done during these months and for the people who have come to follow the debate, I will not go into the provocations that have been launched again from both VOX and the People's Group, but I would like to comment on something that Mr Sánchez del Real has said. He has come to say something like that, if there was a refugee crisis on the border between Ukraine and Moldova in the near future, what is it going to do for the people present there to be given courses of feminism. I just wanted to recall what happened on the Polish-Ukraine border at the beginning of the war, where the human trafficking mafias went to catch vulnerable women to take them to different countries of the world to prostitute them. Therefore, in the event of a similar situation, such persons would need a State that had laws protecting women's rights and would need non-governmental organizations and persons defending the rights of women present there, of course. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I would like to thank the work done during these months, as has already been said here, because I believe that the disposition by the Ministry and the Socialist Group has been total from the beginning. I would also like to thank Maria, Bethlehem and Naomi for their work and, of course, for the NGO Development Coordinator and all the actors in the cooperation sector who have been working with this law for a long time. [[Headed to the guest gallery]] I would also like to thank Roser Maestro, the President of the Commission, and the people who have helped me at technical level, Patricia González and Rafa Mauri, without whom it would have been very difficult to do everything we have done and to achieve the improvements we have achieved throughout the process and the procedure. In our group we are satisfied because, in fact, today is finally going to meet a demand from the sector many years ago. Moreover, the adoption of a law was a commitment of this Government and we finally have it here and it will come true. I think that's really important today. As other groups have said, it is a law that does not make everyone completely happy, but at the same time many groups can feel reflected in it. For our part, the truth is that from the outset we had made it clear that it was essential that the issue of human rights and the protection of vulnerable groups should be well reflected in the law, as it was a main, priority and cross-cutting issue of Spanish cooperation. In this respect, protection of women, adolescents and girls, but also of children, of the LGTB collective, of persons with functional diversity. We have worked and I believe that in the end a number of amendments have been incorporated that make clear the cross-cutting commitment of Spanish cooperation to the protection and defence of all these population groups in the world. On the other hand, we are also pleased with the mention we have made of the rights of indigenous peoples. We believed that, as the law was drafted at first, it was not clear that these peoples, where cooperative activities are carried out that could affect them... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u95	...they may have the opportunity to give their free, informed and prior consent on the actions that affect them, and in the end we have managed to incorporate them as one of the objectives of the law. Therefore, we are satisfied with it. We are also pleased that we have managed to include within the framework of public-private partnerships a reference to respect for human rights and international law, particularly when materialized through public procurement. We are also pleased that the whole part of policy coherence has been improved and strengthened, pending further legislation that will subsequently come to this Congress, such as the due diligence law and others that we believe are in line with the commitment of Spanish cooperation to respect human rights and to the populations living in the territories where cooperation is made to be strengthened and implemented. For us they were central elements, which we believe have finally been reflected in the law. We believe that this is an achievement for the work done, mainly by the coordinator, but we are pleased that the role of the NGOD Coordinator within the governance of the system, as well as that of civil society organizations, is clarified. We believe that this is a qualitative advance in what was reflected in the previous law. And, yes, all these issues for us have to do with ideology, of course; we are not going to make a law of cooperation without ideology, a law in which we talk about human rights, solidarity, respect for vulnerable groups, etc. It's impossible to make a law without ideology. There is a very concrete ideology, which is that of human rights, and we are therefore proud to have worked from this point of view. Another thing is that you would have liked a law with the ideology of intolerance and everything that represents the right and the extreme right of this House, which would not be the law that would have to be given in cooperation or, of course, in relation to any other laws that pass through this Congress. Therefore, proud that this law has an ideological content that goes in the line it has to go, and so we have fought for it to be. And one last comment, because it is true that I have been curious, by contrast, about the interventions that the last two VOX spokespersons have had that have come up to this rostrum. On the one hand, in the debate on taxes on banking, energy, big fortunes, the spokesman for VOX closed his intervention saying that we talk a lot about multinationals, banks, etc., a number of elements that we treat as enemies, when, in reality, they are only enemies in our head; act followed, the spokesman for VOX of cooperation goes up and tells us about global governance, NGOs, etc., a number of issues and dangers that I do not know if they are in their head, but, of course, I do know that politically one is defined in reference to what one understands as a political adversary within what one intends to do with the laws and their political action. Therefore, of course, for us to defend the rights of the popular classes against the interests of banking, energy or big fortunes will always be better than to understand as enemy the 2030 Agenda or the NGOs that are here today. Therefore, everyone is defined with what he is, with what he does and with the laws he approves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guijarro Ceballos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u97	Thank you, President. Gabon. Today's an exciting day. Despite all the noise, yes, despite that noise, it is an exciting day, because, after twenty-two years since the other law, to pass a law on international cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity, with all the letters, is for this government, for this parliamentary group and also for me really exciting. [[Applauds]] Minister, Secretary of State, director of the International Cooperation Agency, directors, directors, protagonists of the whole sector, welcome, welcome to your home. I don't know if we're going to be headline meat today, honestly, but I'm convinced that this country with this law is going to be much better, don't hesitate. Here, in the midst of debates where the voice is raised in such an aggressive and unbearablely macho way, the lives of the most vulnerable people here and there will be re-opened between the seats of this Chamber in a respectful silence, in a blunt silence, which strikes us or should strike us. We are going to reduce aggression and shouting a little bit and we are going to listen to them, because inequality, hunger, disease, climate injustice are in this law today, because there is also solidarity and social justice, and those that are - ill-called - invisible, for our parliamentary group, for us are not absent, are here today. [[Applauds]] This law means being the speaker of those who already have a voice, it means looking from the local to the global and not avoiding the look, it means choosing the answer that as a country we have and we want to have to face shared sufferings with truly transformative cooperation and renewed humanitarian aid. This law means feminist cooperation - with great pride we say - which works with and for women, girls and adolescents, which looks at climate change and is based on such a revolutionary ideology as that of human rights and the 2030 Agenda. This law means Spanish cooperation and humanitarian aid that believes and works in global health, children, the defence of human rights, sexual and reproductive health and democratic governance. It means transparency and effectiveness in multilateral, more multi-level and more multi-stakeholder cooperation. It also means a Spanish Agency of Cooperation at the highest level and with a mixed professional career for people engaged in cooperation. It means, in fact, recognizing the uniqueness and added value of autonomous, out-of-town and local cooperation and it means a lot to many people. I make a special appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who are primarily responsible for a decade lost in Spanish cooperation. I ask you not to vote against it, as you voted against this opinion in the Commission last week. I ask you to be aware that cooperation policy is a State policy. [[Applauds]] You know, every vote today responds to those great consensuses that we have worked with the whole sector. We have negotiated with all of you - you know - the government until the last moment, we as a parliamentary group too, as indicated by the large percentages of amendments accepted. But I do not want to talk about it, because we are not even parliamentary groups. Today all the members of the cooperation sector are proud, but without pride, and, of course and mainly, the individuals and communities of the countries to which we accompany them with technical resources and human resources. Thanks to these more than 2,800 professionals of Spanish origin who work in really complicated circumstances in so many places in the world, they have sometimes given their lives. A special kiss today for the family and the organization to which Maria Hernández belonged, the last murdered co-operator, who accompany us here today. [[Applauds]] We accompany people with names and nicknames, with stories of life, of fighting inequality in Afghanistan, Bolivia, Colombia or Senegal, working, as my admired Ignacio Ellacuría said, for freedom to triumph over the slavery of poverty. Believe me, it has been a great effort of this group that this law was very involved and that it saw the light. They know that there have been many hours of meetings with the entire cooperation sector, so our sincere thanks. Thank you, of course, to the Government, to the Minister, to the Secretariat of State, to the Director of the Spanish Agency for Cooperation, who have put all the meat in the roaster so that this law reflects this diversity of Spanish cooperation with all nuances. Also the autonomous communities, local authorities and outside bodies. And the thanks also to the parliamentary groups, which have had the spirit of consensus and from the beginning demonstrated a policy of height and endorsed this law. Thank you very much, thank you very much, because you have not made this a partisan issue. Thanks to the lawyer and the lawyer. And they will also allow me a special thanks to my parliamentary group for putting into practice every day, against wind and tide, the values of social democracy, those internationalist values; and, especially, to my companions, Noemi Villagrasa and Belén Fernández, my fellow travellers, my teachers. Thank you for your commitment. I love you so much. Thank you for your work. [[Applauds]] I'm done with a couple of dates. Human rights defender Justine Masika, whom I am fortunate to know, says that women in the Congo want not only to be victims, but to be protagonists of change. So that's what we want to do with this law, because, as our longed-for and well-appointed Paul Milanese said this week, life is worthless if I hear a deadly cry and is not able to touch my heart, which goes out. It's time to cooperate. Eskerrik asko. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guijarro. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u99	I will be very brief, ladies and gentlemen, but I would like to thank all the groups which, in the majority, have today expressed their support for this law. I would like to thank the Secretariat of State for Cooperation, the Director of the Agency, the spokesmen of the Socialist Group and all those who spokesmen of the various groups who, from the very beginning, have worked in good faith thinking about Spanish and with a sense of state for their willingness and work over these months so that the much needed new law on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity can be adopted in this House. It is a law that will allow a more effective system of cooperation, with a greater impact of our cooperation policies to address today's urgent challenges: the food crisis, the energy crisis and the climate crisis. All those who have worked on and improved this law can now be very proud of the process of elaboration, because it is a law of all, a law demanded by citizens, and it is a necessary law, which was born of participatory dialogue and has been enriched in its various stages by the contributions of NGOs - many of them present here today, to whom he greeted especially for their work on this law and every day - by the autonomous communities, local authorities, other ministries and many of the political groups that have spoken here today. [[Rumors]] 97% of the contributions received in the hearing process have been incorporated...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, keep a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u101	... and more than 60% of the amendments tabled, because in the government we know that this is a state law, which has to add everyone, and we have made the greatest effort to do so. This law, therefore, is the result of the talent of many, many of you, who have demonstrated their ability to reach agreements honestly, guided simply by the well-being of society and the Spaniards. That is what our citizens expect of us when we come to this House. My special thanks go to the cooperation sector for their work not only in this law, but daily in their various responsibilities, projecting Spain in the world with one of our great values, which most represents us as a society, solidarity, so that Spanish cooperation will enjoy great recognition in the world. I believe that we are all aware that this law marks a milestone demanded for decades by our society, because it raises Spain's international commitment to reach 0.7% of gross national income in 2030 for official development assistance and because it incorporates the sustainable development goals and the Paris Agreement against Climate Change, which were not in the previous law. It also collects the recognition of the cooperative people, dignified their career, their daily work, their vocation and their commitment, which represents the best values of Spain in the world and allows the projects to be carried out. More than 2,600 people are engaged in international cooperation and humanitarian action, which deserve this recognition in the law, our continued support and a channel for their external action. This law will allow for more coordinated, more effective, more transparent, more accountable action, because we have to face major challenges in the world. There has never been such a convulsive international context. We must continue to help the people of Ukraine, we must help to bring peace back to Europe, to stability and progress in the Sahel and to continue our work in Latin America. Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, is a state policy. That is why the spirit that has guided us in the Government and with all parliamentary groups has been that of dialogue, that of the search for consensus and that of union, a union in the fight against poverty, hunger and inequality. I believe that this law, with this overwhelming support expressed here by the various spokesmen, is a great example that, like today in cooperation, when we work together, when we dialogue, when we combine efforts, we are more effective and we do it better for the benefit of Spanish society; in this case for our cooperation, for the construction of a more prosperous, fairer and more sustainable world. Thanks to all those who have expressed their support today so that we can do so here, within this House, and to all those who are up there and every day out fighting for that world. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]] - PROPOSAL FOR LAW FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ENERGY TEMPORARY TEMPORARY ENTITIES AND CREDIT FINANCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS AND ESTABLISHING THE TEMPORARY SOLIDARITY TAX OF THE GREAT FORTUNAS, AND AMENDMENTS DETERMINED RULES OF PROCEDURE [[ENERGY TEMPORARY TIMES AND CREDIT ENTITIES AND CREDIT FINANCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS]] [[File number 122/00247]] [[VOTING]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Take your seats, please. We start with committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Proposal for a law for the establishment of temporary energy levies and credit institutions and credit institutions and for the establishment of a temporary solidarity tax for large fortunes, and amendments to certain tax rules, formerly called a law for the establishment of temporary energy levies and credit institutions and credit institutions. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López and Mr García Adanero. Amendment 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 92 against, 239 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u104	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro and Mrs Fernández Pérez. Amendment 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 158 against 173 abstentions 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u105	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. Amendments 108 and 109. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 24 against, 312 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u106	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 24 against, 315 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u107	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 110 against, 176 abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u108	It's rejected. Amendment 54. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 70 against, 269 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u109	It's rejected. Amendment 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u110	It's rejected. Amendment 60. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 100 against, 224 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u111	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 99 against, 187 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u112	It's rejected. Amendments 8, 12, 14-16 and 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 159 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u113	They're rejected. Amendment 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 105 against, 232 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u114	It's rejected. Amendment 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 101 against, 238 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u115	It's rejected. Amendments 18 and 25. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 9 against, 330 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u116	They're rejected. Amendments 20 and 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 68 against, 271 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u117	They're rejected. Amendment 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 70 against, 272 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u118	It's rejected. Amendment 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 65 against, 278 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u119	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 156 against, 180 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u120	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 30 to 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 10 against, 314 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u121	They're rejected. Amendment 52. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 22 against, 317 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u122	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Candamil's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 25 against, 314 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u123	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 23 against, 308 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u124	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment number 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 22 against, 267 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u125	It's rejected. Amendment 63. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 10 against, 267 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u126	It's rejected. Amendments 69, 70, 79 and 83. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 61 against, 269 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u127	They're rejected. Amendments 72 and 78. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 64 against, 274 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u128	They're rejected. Amendment 73. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 13 against, 330 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u129	It's rejected. Amendment 74. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 109 against, 178 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u130	It's rejected. Amendment 75. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 64 against, 275 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u131	It's rejected. Amendment 80. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 148 against, 170 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u132	It's rejected. Amendment 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 8 against, 320 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u133	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Accensi's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 155 against, 178 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u134	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 25 against, 316 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u135	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 86 and 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 32 against, 311 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u136	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 28 against, 312 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u137	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 62 against, 280 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u138	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 134. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 151 against, 187 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u139	It's rejected. Amendment 135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 106 against, 186 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u140	It's rejected. Amendment 136. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 155 against, 187 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u141	It's rejected. Technical correction to the explanatory statement. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 322 against, 1 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u142	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u143	We shall now proceed to the next opinion. Draft Law on Cooperation for Sustainable Development and Global Solidarity. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pita Cárdenes. Amendment 233. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 43 against, 303 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u144	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ - PNV. Amendments 37 and 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 36 against, 306 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u145	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 40 against, 304 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u146	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 9 against, 280 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u147	It's rejected. Amendment 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 12 against, 310 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u148	It's rejected. Amendment 73. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 232 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u149	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 9 against, 331 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u150	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 243. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 24 against, 305 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u151	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 39 against, 307 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u152	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendments 12 and 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 39 against, 298 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u153	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 28 against, 298 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u154	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. Amendment 142. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 29 against, 297 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u155	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 35 against, 304 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u156	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 278, 301, 309, 319 and 320. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 25 against, 308 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u157	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 29 against, 306 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u158	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 53 against, 294.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u159	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 125 against, 221 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u160	It's rejected. Amendment 91. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 180 against, 165 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u161	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Amendments 102 and 128. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 100 against, 231 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u162	They're rejected. Amendment 105. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 107 against, 218 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u163	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 93 against, 241 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u164	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 21:45, that is to say, from now on, until 22:45 today, for one hour, the Commission's opinions, the proposal for a law and the proposal for a lawyer, which will be the subject of an oral vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting, can be voted on by telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u166	We continue with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations. We can-in Comú Poder-Galicia in common, organic, transposing European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union, and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorder and smuggling of dual-use weapons. For the presentation of the initiative by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor. [[Rumors]] Wait a minute, Mr. Aranda. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please, so that we can continue with the debate. Any time, Mr. Aranda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u167	Thank you, President. Good night. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a member of the PSC, the first party in Catalonia. [[starts your intervention in Catalan]] [[Applauds]] The first party, yes, because in the Catalonia of 2022, today's, the Catalonia today, the most voted party in the last elections for the Generalitat was the PSC. Five years have passed since 2017 and there have been many changes, but do you know what remains unalterable, ladies and gentlemen of the PP? Its political irrelevant in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Today, as for the past forty-four years, Catalonia has a Socialist Party that was founded to guarantee civil unity. Today, as every day since its founding, Catalonia has a party, the Socialist, which has never failed, and from the opposition or from the government it has been loyal to its principles, served the citizens and honored the institutions. By the way, that's much more than you can say, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. Four years of blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary; four years of infamy and institutional disloyalty; four years of constitutional interference. Lessons in patriotism, none. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we bring a proposal for a law to amend the Criminal Code and adapt certain European regulations, and we bring it to debate here, to the seat of national sovereignty, to the General Courts, here, where we find the representatives of the citizenry, all of whom are legitimately elected. Because of course I too have my political objections to some nostalgic parties that whiten in this rostrum Queipo de Llano or Primo de Rivera or that use political violence, as we saw the other day, against Minister Montero, but, believe me, the difference between my group and yours is that we do not believe them illegitimate. [[applause]] I only wish them, yes, that citizenship would relegate them democratically, and sooner rather than later, to the trunk of history. This bill is the result of the political will of a part of this House. By the way, Mrs Gamarra, I see that you followed the slogans of a newspaper that pointed out to us one day and the next day your party throughout Spain launched an infamous campaign in networks against a whole bench. Shame, shame! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone can escape that the object of the political jury launched against the government, that the ultimate end of this exercise of political pyromania on the part of the right and the parliamentary far right and its allies outside Congress is not sedition reform, no. [[Several Members: Nooo]] The political objective, ladies and gentlemen, is unique and exclusively the very existence of the Government, its legitimacy, which you deny, its legislation, which you challenge, and its presence, which you repudiate, that is the political objective. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, the government is bothering you; it is bothering you to expand rights, it is bothering you that we make progressive laws, it is bothering you, and today is only the penultimate step in this escalation that began the same day in the motion of censure against the government of Mariano Rajoy. What they are staging these four days in this plenary is the confrontation beyond the entire political and ethical limit against the Government and its President. But bad day they have chosen to test the strength of this government, with the approval a while ago of these budgets, the third, bad day. I tell you, get comfortable because you were thirteen years old from Felipe González, seven from Zapatero and what's left of Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal, the reform proposes a new penal wording that is intended to replace the type of sedition with another of aggravated public disorders, a change in line with the law compared to our European legal environment and with our legal tradition, where not only European legislation is introduced into our system, but the European courts and their resolutions then have a special impact on the interpretation and application of the rules. Clarification of criminal types, delimitation of the contour of the type and definition of the protected legal asset must be taken into account when dealing with reforms relating to the Criminal Code. Indeed, the update is also linked, of course, with social changes, and in that case, an update is made that responds much more to a nineteenth-century reality than to the reality that exists two hundred years later. That is why this reform establishes a new regulation with a basic type and an aggravated one to clarify the criminal type, determine the legal good to be protected and how it is injured or endangered. We will see, ladies and gentlemen, that the new article 557 of the Criminal Code states that group action against public peace, the use of violence or intimidation are the elements that shape the contour of the basic penal type on which a new aggravated type is built for cases where public order is endangered. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I understand, and I appreciate, that they are opposition and wish you a long and happy stay on this bench, but tell me, what do you offer? What do they offer, not to the Spanish, but to the Catalans? I say to him: Nothing, nothing; they are the most absolute swimming, the culture of not by flag, the disloyalty with the issues of state, the political cowardice - let me - for fear of your right, the remote-directed politics, this moderation of mouth that is lost when you arrive in Madrid. They're buying VOX their offer from the Spaniards, which is hatred, lies and manipulation. [[Applauds]] We do a constant exercise, daily, of political courage, we do not laugh, an honest, determined and future bet for coexistence and dialogue. [[rumors.-Laughter]] I wonder, what is the PP's political proposal, beyond the zero interest in solving the problems? Moreover, what problem do they have with Spain? What problem do you have with plural Spain, with diverse Spain, with Spain that does not think like you, but is Spain after all? Ladies and gentlemen, it pains me to say this, but you have long decided not to do politics and not to do politics is the worst of policies. We saw it on my land, in Catalonia, in 2017. With the PP presided over by Rajoy, the Independence Government already made them the second referendum, because there was another referendum in 2014. In 2017, in that Catalonia that you yearn for, the Parliament passed you two illegal resolutions. [[Rumors]] By the way, where was Rajoy's government on September 6, 2017 and the 7th? Where was he? [[Applauds]] They left politics abandoned... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u168	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u169	They left politics abandoned, because they don't care, because they don't believe. In that Catalonia of 2017 there were Junts for Yes, Together for Yes; for independence, it is understood. Now there is a broken government - at least according to the last thing I read - and aimless. In that Catalonia of 2017, the independence sentiment was higher than ever, because there were never more independenceists than with Rajoy and today the law is being respected and coexistence is recovering. [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!]] Yes, the law is being enforced today and coexistence is recovering. [[Applauds]] Because in 2022 - I know it hurts them - with a government presided over by Pedro Sánchez, Catalans are becoming less and less interested in independence and political and social tension has been reduced. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u170	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u171	I repeat this in case they have not heard it: Catalans are becoming less and less interested in independence, political and social tension has been reduced, and the main shared political axis is the commitment to dialogue, coexistence and politics, and all this, I recall again, with the PSC as the main political and electoral force. Ladies and gentlemen, five years later it is obvious that government policy has an effect; it is obvious, and it bothers you. The good policy has effects, because, ladies and gentlemen, before a right installed in 2017, the government leads the new reality of 2022 with a Catalan citizen who mostly wants to move on. In the face of the extremism of the right and the far right, and also in the face of those who, from independence, remain settled in the radicality and denial of dialogue, the courage and historical sense of socialism is highlighted. [[Applauds]] A Spanish socialism, comrades, fraternal, that by the hand of Catalan, of mine, is leading the stake for coexistence and the future, comrades. This afternoon, this evening already, I understand, because we have already seen it, that there will not be much talk of politics, but without politics there is nothing. You say you are defending Spain, but I am very afraid that its absence of politics weakens it. You with your insults, and to us leave us politics, because, ladies and gentlemen, with you, confrontation and past; with us, coexistence and future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can in common Galicia in common, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u173	President, ladies and gentlemen, good night. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, come out quietly, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u175	Tonight we are discussing the reform of the crime of public disorder and whether or not sedition should disappear from our legal system. I'm going to offer you five reasons or arguments for sending that crime to the trunk of history. First argument. It is a relic of the past filled with the dust of a world that no longer exists; it is a demand of the present. Second, because it's a pre-constitutional anomaly. A rule of law worthy of this name cannot afford a crime like this; it is a democratic requirement. Thirdly, because it does not conform to the standards of the countries in our environment; it is a requirement of Europe, of its courts, of its institutions. Fourthly, because it is a threat to the right to protest and to protest; it is a demand of social groups, of trade unions such as Workers' Commissions, UGT or of associations such as Amnesty International. Fifth, because it is an important step to de-judicialize the conflict in Catalonia; it is a demand of the majority of Catalan society that wants to move on. But we're going step by step. First of all, why do we say it's a relic of the past? Because it was drafted in 1822, in the first Spanish Penal Code and has remained virtually unchanged since then until today, completely alien to the current historical reality. We're talking about a very distant time. I don't know if any images come to your head at that time, but it's hard. We have few images, among other things because it was twenty years before there was the first camera in history: the daguerrotype. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, an era marked by the confrontations between absolutists and liberals, the liberal trienium, there was practically nothing of what we know today. This Congress did not exist, you did not exist either your parents or your grandparents or grandmothers or the parents and mothers of your grandparents and grandmothers. Even Berlanga films did not exist, because there was no cinema; nor did infamous worlds like Qatar because, basically, there was no sport like football. We talk about another world; we talk about a distant world that survived - Bourbons apart - in our Penal Code. That is why, two hundred years later, it is time to modernize this Penal Code, because it has to do with a world that no longer exists, that exists only in the minds of some nostalgic people like those who came out this Saturday with their arms raised to exalt Franco. Ladies and gentlemen, the relics of the past are for museums, not for the laws of a democratic country. [[Applauds]] Second reason. Why do I say it's a pre-constitutional anomaly? Because it is a crime that has to do with Spain being the last country in Western Europe to form itself as a democracy after the Second World War; the only country where fascism was not defeated and there was a transition and not a break, a pact between the Francos and the Democrats. That is why we have the most reactionary right in Europe. Therefore, remnants of Francoism persist in our order. Francoism used sedition to persecute its opponents: the workers' strikes. It is therefore a matter of quality and democratic hygiene to delete that article from our Criminal Code. Thirdly, why do we say that it does not meet the standards of European countries? All you have to do is see what the other penal codes say. It's not up to the right compared. We are the only country in Europe with a sedition conviction; a condemnation criticized by the practical majority of the world of law. There is the manifesto of more than 120 professors and professors of criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop being the Iberian exception. Therefore, today we follow the same path as countries like Italy or Germany that already repealed this crime in 1970 because it is unconstitutional. It is a requirement of Europe, of its institutions, of its courts. Let us not forget what the judges told us in Britain, Germany or Belgium with international extradition orders. Let us not forget what the UN or the Council of Europe told us in their last report, which had to end the obsolete sedition crime. It is a demand from Europe. Fourthly, why do we say it is a threat to the right to protest and demonstration? Because the Second Chamber of the Supreme - the one that Mr. Cosidó said the People's Party controlled from behind - has made such a creative, artificial and imaginative interpretation to condemn the independence leaders who have turned the crime into a time bomb, into a sword of Damocles on the right to protest. Already in the past, attempts had been made to apply to various mobilizations, but now, with that sentence, any general strike or mass mobilization can be seen as an act of sedition. That is what happens when the fight against independence forces the interpretation of the law and adopts ad hoc rules such as the reform of the popular party's embezzlement. Legal abuses and stumbling blocks are committed that are then normalized and the slippery slope of rights cuts is expedited for the rest, has an expansive effect. You have to remember it over and over again. Normalizing an injustice opens the doors to all the injustices that follow it. Yesterday it was the independence leaders, tomorrow it could be the PAH activists or a group of trade unionists. That's why Amnesty International, Workers' Commissions and UGT are asking to erase this criminal type of our order. That is why it is today a victory for democracy, for the right to protest and for Europe that this legislative proposal is adopted. Fifthly, why do I say this is an important step towards restoring democratic normality in Catalonia? Because all this has to do with a political conflict that arose after the unilateral rupture of the territorial pact of the transition made by the political and judicial right by nullifying the status of autonomy approved in this Congress, approved in the Parliament of Catalonia and approved by the people of Catalonia. This anomaly still persists because it is the only territory, the only community, with a statute against the will of its citizens. To solve this conflict, we must first de-judicialize. That is no humiliation to Spain, as the right side says. Politics is not a picture of Goya, it is not a duel of clubs and flags; it is basically the opposite: it is pact, dialogue, agreements. We are also told by the Council of Europe in its report which criticises the condemnation of the independenceists. We are told by the members of the Council of Europe that in democracy political problems must be solved by political means. That is why this is also good news for democracy and for Europe. The crime of sedition is not the only thing that disappears in this reform. Some punitive excesses also disappear: most of the aggravating offences of public disorder introduced by the People's Party to raise the punitive bar. The reform draws a new picture where punitive rigour is reduced and the Criminal Code is approved by most countries in our environment. Now, is this regulation what we would have done if we had absolute majority? No, you have to be honest. This reform is the result of an agreement, a correlation of forces and does not go as far as we would like. The Criminal Code is still plagued by old offences that affect the exercise of fundamental rights and do not sufficiently respect the constitutional limits to which the exercise of State punitive power must be subject, such as the principle of legality, proportionality and minimal intervention. The ghosts of Gallardón and Fernández Díaz, the ministers of the People's Party, are still present in this Penal Code. There is still a crime like that of article 557 bis, conceived by the People's Party to placate the social protest of the 15-M such that the United Left and the Socialist Party voted against. We still have shortcomings, high penalties, concepts that we do not like, and that is why today we are committed to trying to improve the text at the amendment stage. [[Applauds]] But it is not true what Junts per Catalunya or the ANC have said that this reform has been made against peaceful protest and civil disobedience; that is absolutely false and has a demobilizing effect, of discouragement. You're lying to people. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, you, in your desire to disconnect from Spain, have disconnected from reality. We need to be very far from reality to say that this reform is an act of renunciation, surrender, betrayal of Catalonia, as they have said. We need to be very far from reality to say that this is the "A for them" of the People's Party that comes to the Penal Code, as its Secretary General, Mr Turull, said. To say that is an attack on the intelligence of the people and the memory of millions of citizens who went out on the street on October 1 to exercise their rights. It is a banalization of what meant one of the most serious repressive episodes in Catalonia when the cry of "A for them" hit and beat thousands of helpless people who just wanted to exercise their right to vote. We come from social movements, we come from the anti-repressive struggle, some of us have been working in this area for decades. Therefore, we have memory and remember what you did when you were called Convergence i Unió and when you supported repressive measures and cuts in the rights of the People's Party. We remember his policy of law and order at the head of the Interior, his speech of criminalization of the protest, the covert tortures in the police stations of the Mossos. We remember when the 15-M with the "Aturem el Parlament" you were outraged and Mrs Rahola and Mr. Torra compared that with the 23-F, with a coup d'état and asked for jail for those activists; you opposed the pardons and appealed acquittal to Mr. Marchena. We remember all that, and that is why we do not accept lessons from you on this issue at all. We remembered where you were from. They did not sympathize with us, but we have sympathized with you. When the persecuted are others, you or were looking elsewhere, those who were not in Convergence - many of you, it is true, although most were there - were directly involved in their repression. That's why, as I told you before, no lessons.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u176	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u177	I end by thanking the rest of the parliamentary groups, especially Esquerra Republicana and Bildu, for their support of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u179	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what additional provision to the general budgets of the State brings the repeal of the sedition; a derogation announced and also required by those to whom Sánchez owes the Government. The crime of sedition is only a problem for those who have been convicted of committing it, who are curiously the parliamentary partners of this government, and it is also a problem for Pedro Sánchez because it depends on them. Repealing the crime of sedition is not a social demand, but is a payment by the Government to Catalan independence with the law of all and in exchange for the equality of Spaniards before the law. [[Applauds]] A derogation to Junqueras' dictate and to the measure of the coup. This is what they bring here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a shameful initiative. If it is so positive, so modern, so European, why not even the President of the Government? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Yes, sir!]] It is a treacherous and fraudulent initiative, because what is used is the cunning of a proposal for a law to bypass the General Commission of Codification of the Ministry of Justice and the mandatory reports of the Council of State, the Fiscal Council or the General Council of the Judiciary. If the Government itself presumes the legal soundness of its position, the fineness of its arguments, why has the praise of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the Council of State been spared? [[Applauds]] The truth is that long ago you buried Montesquieu and dug up Machiavello and his politics without scruples or moral and legal limits. Behind this initiative are five deceptions. Stop fooling around with Europe's approval. In the European Union, each constitutional order has its own particularities. There are militant democracies, such as the German one, in which parties have been illegalized, and there are others that are not, such as the Spanish one or the Italian one, but all have precepts with harsh condemnations to those who violate the constitutional order. Read Article 81 of the German Penal Code or 241 of the Italian Code or the French or Portuguese Codes or, without leaving Spain, read the unfavorable report of the Supreme Court in relation to pardons, which is clear and compelling. But, of course, you have assumed all the arguments of those convicted of sedition. In short, they have become their defence lawyers. [[Applauds]] Stop fooling about the legality of this reform. It is a reform that attacks the principles of generality of the law because it is designed to favor individuals, with names and surnames that we all know. And stability or permanence because it is made knowing that it will last a short time. Stop fooling about the old age of our criminal legislation. The Penal Code is from 1995, the so-called code of democracy, curiously promoted by a socialist government, with Belloch as Minister of Justice and Interior and - see - in which there was such a Margarita Robles as Secretary of State. [[Applauds]] Ask her, the minister is absent today because she does not endorse this reform either. To give the Spanish society of the 21st century a penal order to govern coexistence, this is the objective sought by the 1995 reform in the words of Belloch himself in this rostrum. Bad day today for that socialism. Stop deceiving also by saying that it is about strengthening democracy, when we are faced with a stone-to-stone dismantling of the rule of law. The Spaniards heard Pedro Sánchez say: criminalizing the illegal referendum, aggravating the crime of sedition, I will bring Puigdemont before Spanish justice. Words of a politician who wants to trust everything that the end justifies the means and that has turned the lie into his instrument. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you also promised this to your voters, each of you; that is why today you will not break the voting discipline, but will break with the word you gave to your voters, betraying the trust you placed in each and every one of you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] Because the surrender of the Criminal Code to those who committed the crime is another step in the dismantling of the State that began after the general elections of November 2019, with the signing of the investiture agreement with the independenceists; an agreement with those who were being investigated by the intelligence services for being a threat to the constitutional order. But this was not a limit for those who only longed for the personal interest of power, without any limit. The leaders of the parties that promoted the attack on the Constitution publicly affirmed that the Socialist Presidency was a golden opportunity to complete its separatist project. Sanchez bowed, one by one, to his demands not to be expelled from the Moncloa. Marta Vilalta, then spokesperson for Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and member of the negotiating team, was absolutely crystal clear: It is an opportunity that independence has to take advantage of. Well, they're taking advantage of it! Here we are, living how our rule of law is weakened, because this derogation makes it easier to do it again to those who have already done it and say they will do it again. Junqueras himself boasted of it just a few days ago. After the term of former judicialization of politics hides the road map towards impunity and the erasure of everything that happened in September and October 2017 in Catalonia. Thus, after the pardons will come to the abrogation of the subjection, to what will follow the embezzlement, in this cheating horsenail processing. But it will not be enough, because the goal is amnesty and self-determination. [[Applauds]] The great victory of independence is the unbridled disauthorization of the judiciary that fought those events. We are, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the Court of the European Union's resolution of the question of the preliminary ruling on the surrender of Puigdemont and Strasbourg, pending the action against Spain by Junqueras, and the repeal of the sedition offence will endorse that action by Junqueras against Spain. What you will do is turn it into a demand that has as a necessary collaborator the Government against the State itself. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: That's it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what you bring us is a suit tailored to the seditious so that their actions will go unpunished. So far, no one has ever dared so much. The proper functioning of the rule of law has prevented precedents from being applied to this particular matter, because there are no precedents for a government president such as Pedro Sánchez. The adoption of this unique law is of the utmost gravity, because they are crimes as serious for the configuration of a democratic state as those described under the sedition heading, i.e. the very protection of the rule of law. And 155 is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, criminal charges are necessary, not impunity. It is necessary to place politicians who are not above the law, as this derogation places them outside the rule of law. It is a clear attack on the separation of powers, it is the supplantation of the judiciary by the Legislature, it is to rewrite the sentence already handed down by the Supreme Court through the amendment of the Criminal Code. [[Applauds]] And have no doubt that the Spaniards will not forget this delivery. Transitional provisions 1st, 2nd and 3rd contain the rules to which crimes already committed to facilitate and expedite their application to those convicted by the Supreme Court. For these you have been very illustrated in the retroactive application of criminal law, because it is the only effect that you claim. Women victims of gender-based violence have not been so lucky, their aggressors - other criminals - however, yes. [[Applauds]] But in this repeal, author's criminal law has a more far-reaching dimension, which no one ever imagined, because no one had ever come this far in our democracy. It is the example of the liberal democracy in which this legislature comes dangerously into the hands of Pedro Sánchez, because the Socialist Party is allowing that, by taking advantage of the resources of the rule of law of representative and non- militant democracy, democracy is emptied and weakened. It is the parties themselves whose leaders benefit from the reform, and not you, who have promoted it and drafted it, demanding to keep Pedro Sánchez in power and, taking advantage of representative democracy, it will be themselves with their votes that will make it come forward with a sufficient majority in terms of an organic law, and you accept and facilitate it. They have become a vehicle for independence. [[Applauds]] Socialists, independence is insatiable, Junqueras and Otegi have been told again, but it also seeks to humiliate them and humiliate us, and that is where everyone decides whether to resist and give the battle or whether to kneel and let himself be humiliated. You have accepted the humiliation of the Socialist Party, but we do not accept the humiliation of the Spanish. For Pedro Sánchez any assignment is cheap when the counterpart is to remain in the Moncloa, even at the expense of the dignity of a party and the solidity of the institutions. Spanish society mostly turns its back on this repeal, opening the door to prison for criminals rather than making the foundations of our democracy more solid. Strengthening Democracy is how Spain advanced in our best stages, until the Socialist Party changed the accord for the sanitary cords, the Pact of 78 for the Tinell Pact and the embrace of the Transition for the evil so-called democratic memory. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] It is in this perversion that we find ourselves in, and the debate we are holding today is the penultimate chapter. Because it is not a question, ladies and gentlemen, of returning to 2017 or to the closure of 2022 with judgments that are not fulfilled, what Spain needs is to rebuild the prosperous, open, dynamic and inclusive Catalonia of 1992, in which we all belong and recognize ourselves absolutely all. That must be the objective of the Democrats and is, of course, the objective of the People's Party. Fortunately, everything has an end and Sanchez's government is getting closer every day.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u180	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u181	I'm finishing up. The institutional stump that they have generated is of historical dimensions, but there is nothing irreparable, and less for those who have an alternative in which the vast majority of Spaniards belong. That is the Spain to which Alberto Núñez Feijóo is addressed and the People's Party, the Spain to which you have long since left aside. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group of Congress, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo, brave!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Where are the socialists?]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u183	Thank you, President. Mrs Gamarra, do you want us to renew the Council and ask for a report? Shall we renew it? Didn't you say it was a Council report? [[Rumors]] Let's check it out. Ah, no, that maybe what you want is to make the report you or do for you the report. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] No, if I see that they do even like VOX, that before they leave already clap, since they are so mimetized. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u184	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u185	They're all, and they're all upset. [[Rumors.-Mr.De Olano Vela: What a shame!]] Look, ladies and gentlemen - if you'll let me speak - I'll literally read you a sentence, to see if you can guess who the author is: They're two different issues. Do you want the public wild card, Mrs. Gamarra? Because it is yours, of October 25, when you were asked on Spanish Television about the reform of the Council and the proposed sedition crime. They're two different issues, those were his words, not mine. But of course, there are those who already know the value of his word and that of Feijóo, and in two days they had already turned. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] No wonder I came from someone who supported Soraya, Married, Feijóo, and then we'll see if Ayuso... [[Protests.-Several Members: Come on, man!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u186	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u187	Do the truths offend or what? [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: It is you who offends.]] It is true that they are all here and come to do their job, and well done. Congratulations on the uproar. As the Marx Brothers would say, if you don't like my principles, I have others. [[Laughter.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some standing positions.- Mr Callejas Cano: There you have given it!- Some Members: Hello!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u188	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u189	Thank you for your sincere applause. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent. We will not continue until there is no silence in the Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Aranda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u191	Thank you, Madam President. I will read you another sentence, as you are trained - quotes, because it is not mine - "It is not easy to explain that Catalonia is not given an economic concert when they have Basques and Navarros, I agree. [[Protests.-Some Members: Nooo!]] These things can be changed, posed and discussed." Mr.Feijóo, year 2016. [[Applauds]] Mrs Gamarra, you, who are a jurist, and I really appreciate your legal standing, you say that it is a crime to bring the Congress to debate laws; that a parliamentary group exercises its legislative power, a common legislative procedure, and that it brings here to debate laws is a crime. Ardid won't be able to control justice through the back door? Won't that be a trick? Because bringing it here is what politicians and parties do, it is the common legislative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the country's major crises, you have only had two attitudes, either to deny them or to make them worse. It also happened in Catalonia. But there are those who have another attitude: to face problems and offer solutions, solutions, alternatives, to initiate ways for citizens to have confidence in politicians, institutions, to work so that division and confrontation do not happen again or that they have current and appropriate responses. In spite of them, we are going to do politics, we are going to explain politically that there is a way of coexistence, of dialogue, of understanding, and we will work hard to give Catalonia the future it deserves. I end with a phrase, which is our harvest: my party, ladies and gentlemen, may be wrong, but my party will never hide. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u192	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u193	Socialists... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, silence. I want respect for the speaker, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u195	Repeat. My party may be wrong, but my party will never hide. Socialists face problems and make policy to seek solutions from dialogue and from the search for understanding between different people, what is the only thing that builds a country and a society. Non-political, doing nothing, sitting on a couch to form a pure, that's already done and saw the problems grow, that's already done Rajoy and we know where they took us: to confrontation, division and social fracture. We may be wrong, but not by doing nothing, but by always fighting for coexistence. Thank you, Patxi, for the appointment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u197	President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate seems to me to be a remake of the debate on pardons. Then there were many lies, many fake news to contaminate public opinion. Now, as I mentioned earlier, there is a novelty, and it is that it has added to the confusion Junts per Catalunya when it says that this is done against peaceful protest, civil disobedience. Instead, you say the opposite, that this is white paper for public disorders. For them it is a betrayal of Catalonia; for you it is a betrayal of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither a betrayal of Catalonia nor a betrayal of Spain, this is a victory of politics. [[Applauds]] Do you know what a betrayal of Spain is? His maneuvers to prevent the arrival of European funds and the collapse of the Spanish economy, the headquarters of the People's Party, built with black money. [[rumors.-Applause.]] Do you know what a betrayal of Spain is? Fiscal secessionism, the independence of Mrs Ayuso's rich. [[Protests]] That is the real threat to territorial unity. It's not Catalonia anymore, it's Madrid. [[Applauds]] What is a betrayal of Spain is that you stir up hatred to confront territories and peoples and use languages as a bold weapon. Therefore, it is good news that Mr. Married has to answer to the courts as charged for promoting hatred when he said bulls, like that in Catalonia... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u198	Quiet, please. Wait a minute, Mr. Asens. Quiet, please. Go on, Mr. Asens.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u199	You lose your nerves a little bit, it's because you're sleepy and hungry, but you really do it just like 9:00 in the morning, disrespecting the House. He said that Mr. Married should answer for his noises when he said things like that the children who spoke Spanish were not allowed to go to the sink. [[A Member of Parliament: What nonsense do you say!]] They also say that this is a threat to democracy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you again for respect, please. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: He too!]] Quiet, please. Everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u201	That concept is not in his vocabulary. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u202	Wait a minute, Mr. Asens. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u203	You say that this is a threat, the most serious in the last forty years of democracy. What is a threat to democracy, the worst blow since 23-F, is what happens in the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That is a seditious attitude, that is an attack on the constitutional order. And they tell us that we have to ask for the opinion of the General Council of the Judiciary, which are there illegally occupying... well, with the term expired. Because the problem you have is that you don't respect the rules of the game, only when you serve them to access or hold on to power. When they lose it, they will entangle themselves in institutions, because they believe that power is theirs, and they follow the same script as Trump in the United States or Bolsonaro in Brazil. Today, Mrs Gamarra also said that this is to rewrite the sentence, which is an intrusion into the judiciary, a correction, a supplantation, she said. Mrs Gamarra, you studied law, but you also missed the sort of separation of powers, because if you had been that day you would know that in a democracy judges are not commanded, the people are commanded, and the people are represented in this House. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] That's the rule of law. You have spoken of the rule of law, but you are confusing yourself, what you mean is the rule of judges, which is not the same. The judges must apply what we say here, the will of the people represented by this Congress. [[Rumors]] That's democracy, and not...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u205	Moreover, they say so because as you have put a majority of judges in the dome - most of them are politicians of the People's Party disguised - they believe that they are the main writers of politics in Spain. You have also said that this is a blackmail of independence, and that it is a price that the Government pays to independence. That's fake. This is a debt to democracy; this is a commitment to us, because we were the only ones who carried it on the electoral agenda. Independence defended independence and amnesty and we, the dialogue table, pardons and sedition. It's our road map, it's not the blackmail of independence, it's our commitment. We thank both the Socialist Party and the Republican Left for having left their comfort zone and for having moved the record regarding their original position. Do you know what the problem is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? That you have no proposal for Catalonia, just threats, fucking blows and jail. That is their legacy: the declaration of independence, the judicialization of the political problem, the polarization of society, with its authoritarianism, which is what fuels independence. Thanks to you, independence has risen from 10 to 50 %. You are a true factory of creating independenceists, overacting and agitating the scarecrow that Spain breaks.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u206	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u207	Termination, Your Honor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u209	They need to raise the nationalist temperature, they need to flood the flag balconies again. [[Rumors]] That's why the nationalists want us to talk about homelands instead of eating things. You are the true factory of the independenceists. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u210	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u211	And if the independenceists didn't exist, you'd make them up. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u212	Thank you, Mr. Asens. I give the floor to Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u213	Thank you, President. The truth is that, given the importance of the debate that you have put before this plenary, it would have been to thank that at least the Socialist Party would have taken it with a little interest, even if only out of respect for the Spaniards, who are going to suffer how the rule of law is weakened by the repeal of the sedition crime. [[Applauds]] The truth is that who has intervened in the use of the Socialist Party's word the only solvent he has said, sincerely, has been... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u214	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u215	...that phrase in relation to Groucho Marx. But let's go to what we do. Here we are not talking about coexistence, what we are talking about is convenience, which is a very different thing. [[Applauds]] We have just approved the general state budgets and their partners demand cash payments. And today is the day of collection. This week is a day off for your partners. Bildu's already gone through the box. If last year his statements, fundamentally, were - Otegi said - that if two hundred terrorist prisoners are on the streets, one must support a budget, it is supported. Done and done. Supported and on the streets or, at least, very close to home. Prison policy at the service of power. You see the resolutions of the National Court that are laying down those approaches and those third degrees. But he's also back this week going through the box, and he did it yesterday. What did you deliver yesterday on the billing day Bildu had? The departure of the Guardia Civil de Trafic de Navarra, at Bildu's demand, nothing more and nothing less, the heirs of the terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] Today Otegi, who must be thanked for his sincerity, has wanted to remind you - he has wanted to remind you - who is in charge here and has dictated to you the script of this government and has also dictated to you the script of shame, which you follow. He's the one who dictates it. But not only does Otegi dictate it. What we bring here today is the repeal of the crime of sedition, because the one who demands it, in this case, is not any independence party, it is the independence parties whose leadership has been condemned for the crime of sedition that is brought to a derogation. This is the key. And here again, it is collection day and, therefore, as you have voted in favour of the budgets, you here are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, no more or less. [[Applauds]] You Members of the Socialist Party, one after the other, say so to all those voters who trusted your word. Junqueras qualifies as successful suppressing sedition. [[Shows a press clipping]] They also demand that they include the reform of embezzlement. It is true that in this they have common interests, because there may be some convicted of embezzlement in their ranks who are quite interested. But not only that, what clearly leaves Junqueras declared - it would be interesting if they would have solved the question of whether the crime of embezzlement will also be reformed - is that this will lower the price by trying again. There's nothing here to do with living together. Here what there is has a lot to do with convenience. [[Applauds]] And you are willing to do this, you are willing to lower the price so that you can do it again and you are willing to lower the price so that you can run for the next elections. That's what we're talking about and, yes, law enforcement. Of course we can talk about law enforcement. Why don't you appeal to the Constitution all those resolutions or laws that come from the Catalan Parliament that violate the linguistic rights of Spanish people living in Catalonia? Why don't they? [[Applauds]] That would be law enforcement. But you have no problem in handing over the linguistic rights, fundamental rights of those Catalans, in exchange for continuing in Moncloa. That's what's here, no more or less.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u216	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u217	I'm finishing up. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do not deceive anyone. At this point, all Spaniards know that their word is absolutely worthless; that everything they promised they were going to do was, only and exclusively, the instrument for obtaining the votes and, from there, acquiring power. But that's what they've already forgotten. Now you owe everything to the partners you have chosen, although for that you are surrendering the dignity of Spain and weakening the rule of law. But don't forget: Spain won't forget. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- A Member of Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u219	Thank you very much. Let's be rational. It has been said that the Criminal Code is the negative Constitution, that the limit of constitutional law is criminal law. If the Constitution sets out the basic rules of what can be done, the Criminal Code establishes the opposite, what cannot be done, and there must be consistency between the two. They are the two fundamental norms of coexistence and therefore need a broad consensus of society. This law does not comply with this in any way, on the contrary. It has also been said that criminal law is a complete system and the penalties of the Criminal Code should not be changed at the expense of individual cases. And if it is not good for the victims to decide the penalties to be imposed on those who commit crimes, it is even worse that those who commit them are the ones who request change, as is the case. We could debate a lot about the procedure, the content and the consequences of this law, but only on these two issues is it obliged to vote against. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good night. It draws attention to the fact that the great beneficiaries of what we are going to approve today are not present in the House. The Socialist spokesman said that the Government was criticized, but to what Government? If there's no government. If there is neither the President of the Government when we are talking about sedition, it is something fundamental for this Government to exist. If things like this were not approved, this Government would not exist, because it is, of course, one of the payments being made. And you get out here and you say: once we approve this, there will be tranquility in independence, in secessionism, because almost no independenceists are left in Catalonia anymore. Is Mr. Rufian going to come out here and admit that? Are you going to say you're giving that up already? Or Mrs. Vehi? Or Junts per Cat or any of them? I mean, have you solved the problem? Are you sure? You are selling the instruments that a rule of law has to defend yourself from such issues in exchange for them giving nothing. The only thing you do is that, if you whiten, you have already done it on the one hand, and now whiten on the other all your problems of conscience, all your original sin, which is to be a government with those who have delinquent, if there is no crime there are no criminals. [[Applauds]] And they pretend that it's done here without anyone raising their voice. Obviously, that's a scandal more than you're doing, because you're not going to give up anything. How are you going to quit? But they're chopping them. Not only are they not going to give up, but they are going to come out here and say how delighted they are that part of Spain is - they will say - rabid. Yeah, rabid, I recognize him. This is a shame and, therefore, it is like to be angry to see that by a seat one is able to sell the instruments that a rule of law and a nation has to defend itself from secessionist people like you. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the VOX Parliamentary Group, some seats]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u222	Thank you, Mr. García. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u223	Thank you, Madam President. We want to be absolutely clear. We, the canarian nationalists, have not changed our opinion or position. We are therefore not going to support the amendment of the Criminal Code on sedition or, of course, on embezzlement, because that is also what the Canary Islands, the majority of the Spaniards and the socialist leaders think in large numbers. It is others who have to explain why they have changed their position, why they do so without political consensus, why they do so on such an important subject and without a bill that can have the report of all the consultative institutions of the State and, above all, why they are doing so at this time in the context of a budget negotiation. We will therefore vote no to this bill. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u225	We wonder why we're talking about sedition today. We have two answers, which are certainly complementary. The first is that independence succeeds in repealing the crime of sedition, thus materializing a classic milestone in the independence discourses of all sectors, which is that self-determination democratizes the Kingdom of Spain. And the second answer is that the PSOE wins something. In fact, the PSOE gains greater control of the protest in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis. His spokesman said: civil unity. It's pretty scary. They translate the spirit of subjection to public order and, in fact, the PSOE does not speak of repealing the sedition crime, the spokesman has spoken of substitution. And that's how they kill two birds with one shot: a democratic make-up to Europe - the famous approval - but keep your hand hard. Why are we saying this? Because this reform makes roadblocks a crime, because this reform makes the occupation of public and private spaces a crime, because with this reform the 15-M today could be a crime. And what's the key? The concept of intimidation. Before, Mr Asens referred to Aturem's protests in Parliament. There, in that Marchena judgment, in the Supreme Court, it was the first time that the concept of intimidation was used. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u226	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u227	Who decides what intimidation is? How is he intimidated? We changed the question. What's the PSOE afraid of? The PSOE fears thousands of people on the street, civil disobedience, which is what he was TsunamiDemocratic and what independence was. Progressive Members of the House, the right to protest is the heart of democratic societies and disobedience to unjust laws has historically been a driving force for achieving rights. This...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u228	Mrs. Vehi, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u229	...is what's at stake today.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u231	Gau on. Good evening, President, ladies and gentlemen. Is the repeal of the sedition offence good? Well, there's nothing more to see than the reactions of the right and the extreme right to sense that it's not bad. Mrs Gamarra, you talked about ETA, about the imposition of Catalan. All he had to do was talk about the Bolivarians. Was that your argument in the face of the repeal of this crime? They've set up bubbles, they've set up the cisco, they've set up the chicken, literally. I recall that when laws on the strengthening of the penal system were passed, such as the Organic Law on Citizen Security, when the Penal Code was tightened, there was a calm and calm debate and everyone voted for what seemed to him. Now there is a majority who bet on this repeal, this reform of the sedition crime, and you protest as if you were children. In Euskal Herria Bildu we believe that this measure is doubly positive. Firstly - and it has already been said - it ends with an anomaly, an old-fashioned European environment that does not correspond to Western criminal systems. Are you proud of the maintenance of that antique? It's his problem. I believe that there are people who also feel patriotic, like you, and who shame you, so for two years the Socialist Party has been announcing that they already intended to take this step; welcome be. Moreover, by modifying the crime of disorder, it is harmonized with criteria of the European environment, and it is further objectivized, limited and has more proportionate penalties. Eye, this is not risk-free - and then I'll comment on it - but repealing the sedition is positive. Let us not forget that Spain has one of the most severe criminal codes in Europe, and this takes a step in the right direction, that is, it does you a favor; even if you do not see it at this time, you will see how you will like this reform in the future. [[Rumors]] And look, in the same way - calm down - this measure is positive in the de-judicialization of the political conflict - I repeat, political - in Catalonia, because it is on the road to getting out of the courts what should never have come to them. The State, not only the Government, but all the powers of the State and some bodies that go for free have used all the exception during these years against the citizenship of Catalonia: denial, criminalization, repression in the courts and also through cloacas of the State, which have sometimes gone for free. If we remember... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u233	Thank you. If we remember, the Catalan Operation, demonstrated and approved in a report of this House, to invent bubbles against Catalan leadership; the brutal repression of October 1, where the only violence there was of the police, making also the ridiculous international to steal ballot boxes; later, we have seen police infiltration into political parties and associations; likewise, they have the record of Europe in the use of Pegasus, that spying malware; and we have also seen police reports plagued by falsehoods and exaggerations. And finally, on a long list, we have seen the imprisonment of an entire government and part of it in exile and, in case there were few, thousands of people accused. Someone thought applying shock theory would get something, but no, they didn't. You know why? Because this game is also played in Europe. [[Rumors]] And they spoke before humiliation. More humiliations than the courts of several European States and resolutions of international institutions, such as the Council of Europe or several United Nations agencies, have not embarrassed them, have not humiliated them... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Excuse me a moment, Mr. Iñarritu. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop yelling. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u235	Thank you. I think that should be a reason to be ashamed and reflect on what measures should be taken. I therefore believe that it is a good thing that this Government is going on that path of de-judicialization of what is a political conflict. We have seen partial pardons before and now this measure is coming. Are all measures to be taken? Obviously not, but it is undeniable that it is a positive measure and that it is on the right track. That is why some statements, Mr Patxi López, or Vice-President Calviño, are made incomprehensible to us, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. This measure cannot be focused on stopping or handing over anyone, it goes in the opposite direction. And if these facts are declared or manifested to try to please those who will never be content, at the same time we will be outraged at those we believe in negotiation and dialogue as measures for conflict resolution. I was talking about risks. It is obvious that, like any rule, it can be too interpretable, and it is true that there are some associations, some entities that have said, eye, that this can be used against peaceful protest, although here, when talking about disorder, there is talk of violence or intimidation, that already in the current code there is talk of violence or threat, something that is even more dangerous. But it is true that there are elements that are interpretable, and we in the legislative process will support ending all measures that have gaps or that can be interpreted contrary to the spirit of this law. Because look, if we know anything about Euskal Herria - that we don't suck our fingers - it is of the twisting and hammering application, as it has done in Catalonia with these crimes and with others; we have seen the application of terrorist crimes when it did not correspond in other latitudes; we have seen the attack on authority when elsewhere it would have been unthinkable. We've seen this in many places. On many occasions in Euskal Herria and also in Catalonia the postal code has been applied more than the Penal Code, it is evident. However, to say that this serves to persecute demonstrations is not to be rigorous, not to be honest and also to trivialize repression. An objective analysis shows that this law is better than that existing so far. Finally, he ended up saying a phrase for the citizens of Catalonia [[ends your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u237	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing amendments to certain offences under the Criminal Code and other rules with different justifications. Thus, some of them, such as those referring to scams and falsehoods, respond to the need for transposition of directives or the improvement or completeness of some already carried out. I would like to point out that our group shares these changes as they are necessary for the effective construction of an area of freedom, security and justice in the Union with common minimum rules for crimes of particular gravity, with cross-border affection and with an authorship of organised crime. [[The Lord]] Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, we share the need to consider in the fight against crimes of smuggling the degree of attempt, as well as the conduct of conspiracy and proposition in foreign trade operations. For its part, the penalty proposed for those who deliberately conceal the whereabouts of a corpse from relatives and relatives required in cases that hurt the least sensitivity also gives rise to our approval for the assault on the moral integrity of those who are deprived of the body of the loved ones, which is essential to start the mourning process as a process of emotional adaptation to their absence. However, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the reforms described does not conceal from us the true pointum ardens that involves the suppression of the crime of sedition of the initiative and the consequent redefinition of the crimes against public order, which, beyond being justified in the need to harmonize its regulation with that of the countries of our environment in order to adapt its rules to the current historical reality or to overcome the structural uncertainty of this crime of sedition - according to the particular votes of judges of the Constitutional Court - also has the suppression of this crime, the meaning of rectification of the policy of the State followed in response to the political and constitutional crisis experienced in Catalonia, in which both the criminal judicial system and the exceptional government of 155, the secret operations from the institutions of the State to damage the reputation of Catalan independence leaders or the use of the forces and bodies of State security in order to avoid the referendum materially have proved not to have the capacity to respond to the independence demands of Catalonia insofar as they are claims that affect the conviction of history and that they are of independence. Its most recent crisis, which must now be remembered in order to frame the issue that we are discussing, originated in the brushing of the Catalan Statute - in the injuring expression of Alfonso Guerra - and after its endorsement by the citizens of Catalonia in their argumentation. Apodictic tone and preventive character, according to Enoch Albertí's characterization of the ruling 31/2010, of the Constitutional, which disrupted that Statute of endorsed Catalonia, which led to a break in the balance between the democratic principle and the principle of legality, which was largely the result of an alternative of political activism in the parliamentary seat and the granting by the citizen of a role of relevant trust to civil-political society. A situation, ladies and gentlemen, of a serious constitutional crisis in which on all sides it was carried out with unusual interpretations of the law and which did not escape the sedition crime that we are now dealing with. A crime which, as I said to you, has or suffers from considerable structural uncertainty when it comes to clearly describing criminally reprehensible conduct, as well as its means and purposes. Uncertainty that it fails to solve the definitional concept that the Supreme Court elaborates on itself, and that it enters into crisis when it intends to subsume the Supreme facts prosecuted in the previous definitional concept. Also criminal uncertainty, which is manifested in the clear imbalance between the value of conduct, as illegal public order and not as an assault on the Constitution, and the severity of the associated sanctions. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we share the need for reformulation of public order offences and, among them, the abolition of sedition, a sort of legal device, a legal ornitorinco with cuts and elements of other criminal types that protect other legal assets other than public order, which is difficult to define, and much more to fit into it realities that are better suited to other criminal types, and that are at risk of inclusion - as has already been pointed out - of conduct linked to the right of demonstration and assembly as an external expression of political protest at the performance of public authorities, which can generate a discouraging effect of the exercise of fundamental rights. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it also contributes to the elimination of the crime of sedition, which means taking a further step in the right direction after the granting of pardons, in the updating of the State's political task to address the so-called Catalan territorial question and also the Basque one. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u238	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u239	Thank you, Mr. President. We are used to commenting on the barbarities of the Spanish Government, but today these gentlemen go further, because what they are perpetrating at this very moment is a blow to the Penal Code from the Spanish Government itself. Today they are abrogating the criminal type of sedition, because they demand it condemned by sedition that they are publicly announcing that they want to recidivize and do the same. This is a real crime against Spanish democracy that the Spanish Government is committing, and, like all crimes, it has elements of the criminal type. The first: this is what the Government of Spain is doing based on a great deception, it is based on one of Mr. Pedro Sánchez's main lies, and see if there is any place to choose, but it was one of the lies that he said with more roundness and with more publicity, because these lies were poured mainly into the election campaign of 2019. Mr Sánchez publicly stated that what had happened in Catalonia in October 2017 had been rebellion. Mr. Pedro Sánchez called for the campaign vote promising to recover the illegal referendum that Zapatero had removed and that he never recovered the People's Party. Mr Sánchez called for the Spanish to vote by committing not to pardon those convicted of the trial, and Mr Pedro Sánchez asked for the vote in the generals, even allowing himself the excess or the chaff to say that he was going to bring Puigdemont to prison. In the end, what will turn out is that it will allow Puigdemont to return to Spain through the big door, I don't know if as a guest, even special, of Mr Sánchez. Look, I'm going to ask the gentlemen of the government a very simple question: if they're so proud of what they're doing, if they're so convinced that this is good, if they're so clear and obvious that this is what we have to do, why didn't they tell the Spaniards when they were asked to vote in the election campaign? Why did they shut up and say the opposite? Why? [[Applauds]] The second element of this type of crime against Spanish democracy that the Sánchez government is committing is the following: they need accomplices. And who are the government's accomplices? For people with experience, with experience in delinquency; come on, criminals sentenced to a final sentence for crimes as serious as sedition and embezzlement, who, I insist, publicly announce every day they want to recidivize. This is insane. It is as if you want to negotiate the fire regulations with pyromaniacs who are saying publicly that you are wishing to burn a forest again. It is as if you want to negotiate and comment on the metro security policy with the trade union of carters, who are making a new plan to be more effective at stealing tourists. In addition, not only are they content with sedition, this crime against Spanish democracy probably also extends and through the back door to embezzlement, so that there is neither a corrupt nationalist nor a corrupt socialist who have to serve their sentence. There is one very important thing in democracy and it is to understand that the Criminal Code is not to defend the criminals of society, it is to defend the society of criminals. [[Applauds]] And even if you pardon them, even if you eliminate the criminal type, with whom you are negotiating this, on which you are supporting yourself are criminals who will not cease to be. Do not again claim that you are progressive, because progressives defend equality before the law, because progressives know that the law is the power of those who do not have power, because progressives respect the separation of powers, and you love to judge, condemn those who are not theirs, pardon those who are theirs, and make criminal codes as criminals. That is why you are not progressive, because progressives fight political privileges, and you increase them. Because progressives cannot be the defenders of four nationalist lords who have lived their whole lives living very well at the cost of the process. You have devoted yourselves to defending privileged nationalists, while you have humiliated Catalan workers who have suffered the economic consequences of the process, while you have humiliated those who stopped the coup and while you have humiliated working families who take their children to public schools in Catalonia who only want to have 25% in Spanish. You do it in a way that the criminals like: with nightiness and lightness. That is why it was so important, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you put forward a motion of censure, because at least this would not happen today at eleven and twenty o'clock in the evening, and that is why Mr Aranda would not have come out today to defend himself, but it would have to be a week with Mr Pedro Sánchez giving explanations here for this ignominy. [[Applauds]] By the way, a lot of haste to approve the reform of the sedition and you are blocking the law of the ALS, which is the one that has to defend thousands of families who suffer from this terrible disease. You, too, are using an excuse that is absolutely cheap. It is not true that in Europe there is less to be done by the events that took place in Catalonia; it is not true, the Supreme Court said. In Germany it would be from ten years to life imprisonment; in France up to life imprisonment; also in Italy twelve years; and in Belgium, from twenty to thirty years. I hope you will bring the Spanish Penal Code into line with that of the European countries. Frankly, the exception we have in Spain is not the penalty for sedition, the exception we have in Spain is the unfortunate differential fact of having a government that relies on sedition convicts. So they do not think of using the European Union to cover their debts, because the European Union represents the antithesis of what its partners represent. Finally, this will have serious long-term effects, because you are disarming the rule of law. What you're doing is giving more instruments to criminals, so the next coup attempt will be sponsored by Mr. Pedro Sánchez. But I tell you one thing: the accuser finger of history will be fixed on you and you will have no pardon. Finally, I would like to say to the separatists that it is true that a Spanish Government had never been allowed to do what this Government is doing. It is true that you are stronger today and the state is a little weaker, but I will also tell you one thing: in October 2017, most Spaniards defend themselves before you and win them.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u240	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u241	And I'll tell you more. When you try the coup again, you will try it, despite all this, most Spaniards will win you again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u242	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. The use of the post-Franquist judicial apparatus, because it is known that it was not cleansed at the end of the dictatorship, for the persecution of political discrepancy and social protest was a constant throughout the forty-four years of the regime of 78, formally democratic, and fundamentally against the sovereignist movements of nation without state. Such use knew a high time with the application of the sedition crime to the leaders who led a civic, peaceful and democratic movement so that Catalonia could decide its future freely in October 2017. But this not only goes to Catalonia, it goes to everyone and everyone, it goes to democracy. Repealing the crime of sedition is therefore absolutely necessary in order to advance democratic rights, to de-judicialize political life and to prevent debates that must be resolved in the political sphere in a democratic way from being dealt with in the judicial sphere by people whom no one has chosen to make political decisions. But the PSOE and Podemos proposal replaces the crime of sedition by another, that of aggravated public disorder, which can have a wider and wider application and result in an even deeper violation of public freedoms and essential rights such as that of manifestation, and this when the law has not yet been repealed gags seems very serious and very dangerous to us. That is why - it has finished - the BNG will strongly oppose this part of the proposal. We are going to table amendments, but I am confident that if it is not amended, we will not be able to support the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u244	Thank you. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend the Criminal Code by transposing certain directives to adapt the legislation of the Criminal Code to the law of the European Union in our consideration is a valid proposal. It is a proposal that in the text deletes Chapter I of Title XII in those articles relating to the crime of sedition, and the abolition of the crime of sedition for us is valid. It is valid because we believe that it is an anachronistic crime and that there was a sufficient majority to begin the process of this initiative. Perhaps it could have been done before, but in any case it is a matter to be resolved which we consider necessary. PeCAT, I have said many times, comes to do politics, to seek agreements to move forward, to move forward working from the rigor, not from the populism of those who say that this is going to break Spain or from the populism of those who say that this is going to lead everyone to jail. It is up to us to move away from the easy tweet and to address that sedition with the literal text is eliminated, that amendments can be made to improve the configuration of public disorders to better guarantee the exercise of fundamental rights and, ultimately, to improve the current regulatory framework. This proposal is being taken into consideration today. It is not the definitive proposal, and our duty will be to improve it. Our duty will ultimately be to make policy and move forward to change the current Criminal Code into a Criminal Code that is unique to a more democratic and freer society. In this scenario of improvement, in this scenario of advancing through agreements, in this scenario of changing the current configuration of the Criminal Code to eliminate an anachronistic crime is in which they will find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u247	Good evening, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, EFE Agency, 27 October: The President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, states that the reform of the sedition crime must be supported by Esquerra and that this training must assume that crimes were committed during the independence process. There we are. The proposed law presented by PSOE and Podemos, and negotiated by the Aragonese Government, is part of a radically false budget according to which the process of independence of Catalonia and the referendum of self-determination were made criminal. For us, the independence process was and is a legitimate political process that should never have been criminalized and persecuted, which must be resolved politically with amnesty and self-determination, and not with a solution to the letter that saves a few and condemns thousands more, the rest of the reprisals. There is no need to whitewash repression. The fight against exile in Europe has already shown that the referendum was not a crime. In 2018 it was said by the Schleswig-Holstein court, after those of Scotland and Belgium, the UN reports and the demolition resolution of the Council of Europe based on the Civics report. What the Sánchez Aragonés reform seeks, and makes it very clear in its explanatory statement, is to solve the dysfunctions in judicial and security cooperation in Europe. Translated: solve Llarena's ridiculous with the euro orders. This is confirmed by the statements of the President or Vice-President Nadia Calviño, who states that this reform is due to the shared objective of bringing President Puigdemont to justice in Spain, or those of the socialist spokesman Patxi López, who treats us as terrorists when he says that the reform is to end the sanctuaries of the independenceists in Europe. This explains why, instead of a clear and total repeal, we find ourselves with a partial deletion, which does not clarify its defects and, worse, which is subject to an insurmountable counterpart: the criminalization of the protest; a lamination of the rights of demonstration, freedom of expression and non-violent resistance through a new crime of public disorder, plagued by undetermined legal concepts, which includes an aggravated modality. [[The lady]] Look, Mr Aranda, Europe has already abrogated the crime of sedition and there is no need to replace it for anything. We are not going to be the useful fools who endorse this kind of improper sedition, this fraud to the democratic principle and the rule of law principle. Mr Asens, but also how many of the 15-M of the shipyards of Cadiz, of the protests for the imprisonment of Pablo Hasel, how many taxi drivers, farmers, truckers, trade unionists, students, activists of Amnesty or'de la PAH, how many would be sentenced to prison with this law. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] The corporal. The last thing we want, the last thing our exile wants is to sacrifice the independence referendum and social and political mobilizations, whatever they are, in exchange for personal solutions. That's why they don't count on us. Visca Catalunya free! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u248	Thank you, Mr Pagès. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u249	Thank you. I promise to be brief, because we've been here almost literally since yesterday. I'll do it painless. In addition, someone here is more tense than Feijóo in a debate. [[Laughter]] I'll try to be very brief. One. Vote is not a crime, get as you put on. [[applause]] They have allocated enormous resources to create enormous machinery for manipulation, repression; they have judged us, beaten us, imprisoned us, and failed to convince two million people. It's not opinionable, it's not opinion, it's information. They have failed to convince two million people in Catalonia - like it more or like it less - that they want to vote for Catalonia's political status. So vote, get as you do, it'll never be a crime. Steal, yes; vote, no. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Two. This is not a concession to Republican Left. [[Several Members: Nooo!]] This is not a concession to independence. [[Several Members: Nooo!-A Member: It is blackmail!]] I wish it were. This is a concession to democracy. [[Several Members: Ooooh!]] In fact, it is a concession to their democracy to stop making a mockery of Europe, basically. [[Applauds]] Three. Since it has been announced, since it has been said, since this was remembered, practically all the positions of the Republican Left, any almost militant of the Republican Left - in fact some spokesman has referred to it - we have been given statements by some responsible, some PSOE office: statement by today's spokesman, statement by Nadia Calviño at COPE, statement by Margarita Robles on Spanish Television. PSOE people playing PSOE. I mean, what's the news? That the PSOE isn't indelible? Is that the news? [[Laughter]] We do not want or can - above all we do not want, but neither can we - change the PSOE. That, in any case, will be done by your voter, if you want to do so. So, we just didn't understand why we constantly get statements from PSOE people doing PSOE. The PSOE has been doing the same for 40 years. Four. Nor can we change the Spanish judiciary. We can't change to the Spanish judiciary. It's an endemic problem in this country. And I am no longer talking about the absolutely pitiful and ridiculous sentences towards independence; La Manada's sentence. This country has a huge problem with its judicial power. We can simply aspire to make it a little more difficult for the judge or the judge on duty. [[Applauds]] It's the only thing we can do. Five. I can perfectly understand that there are people who don't like the work of Esquerra Republicana; don't like it and comment on it from a sofa or from a seat. I can understand that. Anyone who doesn't like it, if you share a minimum of values with us and us, can help. We are not film critics watching a film and criticizing how one does it; we are politicians and politicians. We have to be part of the solution, not the problem. There are very angry people here, and we have no right to be angry and angry. Angry and angry have the right to be people. We're trying to solve people's lives. [[Applauds]] Look, I'm done with a reminder, because there's a eternal question. Few people make it, but very powerful people. It's done by a few people, but people who run media machines, the truth, quite powerful. I have had the enormous honour and responsibility to represent this parliamentary group and this party for a few years now, and I think I should say so. The question these people ask themselves in bad faith is: What is Republican Left in Madrid for? What do we have thanks to Esquerra Republicana in Madrid? [[One Member: Salary]] Not like you, they give it to you in sacks of rice, I guess. [[Laughs.-Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u250	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u251	I'll say some. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of Esquerra Republicana in Madrid, dozens of aid were approved that saved the lives of literally thousands of people, millions of people, in fact, during the worst of the pandemic. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of Esquerra Republicana in Madrid, hundreds of contributory and non-contributory benefits have been maintained and earned. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of Squerra Republicana, the situation of the interim has been dignified. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of Esquerra Republicana, the law of university coexistence in favor of students has been passed. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of Esquerra Republicana, a law of science has been passed that has raised four points the investment in science in our country and that has saved the Catalan scientific parks. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of Esquerra Republicana in Madrid, a consent law has been passed, and we say it proud and proud because it is only true. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana in Madrid, a children's law has been adopted that protects those who most deserve to be protected. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of the Republican Left, medals have been taken from fascists and murderers in this country. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of the Republican Left. Five commissions of inquiry have been approved, and I can assure you that they make corrupts and thieves spend a bad time in the host. [[Several Members: Haaala!-Applause]] Thanks to the negotiation and vote of Esquerra Republicana in Madrid and thanks to the efforts of much of Catalan society and Catalan institutions, nine people sleep in their house and not in a cell. Thanks to the negotiation and the vote of Esquerra Republicana in Madrid, we have eliminated a nineteenth-century crime and removed the toy from the fascist judges. [[Several Members: Haaala!]] And whoever does not like it to help, because we are not responsible for the decisions of the PSOE, we are responsible for their corrections. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u252	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u253	And who wants more rectifications of this kind that let us add strength. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a repeated appeal from this Presidency for institutional respect. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Quiet, please. This includes all State institutions, all constitutional bodies and all State powers. Therefore, certain qualifications referring to a power of the State cannot be admitted. Thank you very much. [[Protests]] Quiet, please. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, several days of vodevil, theatre and comedy are ending, in which some want us to believe that we were faced with a debate on the general budgets of the State. We all know it's a lie; everything was agreed and agreed in those dark offices of infamy and constant betrayal of Spain. But now it's time for the truth. We've seen it, now it's time to go through the box, right, gentlemen of the government? It's up to you to go through the box, as you've been before the florists, handing over the Civil Guard to Navarra. Now it is time to pass by the box before the coupsmen of Catalonia and the Basque Country. But the traitors never pay for their infamy with their heritage, with their interests or with their wealth, they always do so with others, giving them pieces of national sovereignty, pieces of the wealth of the Spaniards, pieces of the national territory. [[Applauds]] And this is not, as some repeat, a blackmail of secessionism, because there is a clear will to compromise, there is connivance and complicity of the Government to receive in return the benefit of budgets. It is a proposal for a law that is a clear fraud of law, of book, of article 6.4 of the Civil Code, because we are presented as a proposal for a law of parliamentary groups which should undoubtedly be an organic bill of a government subject to the controls and reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State, the Fiscal Council, the State Advocate. It is also clearly a diversion of power, because, by relying on the powers of parliamentary initiative of parliamentary groups, the aim sought is clearly illegal: a covert amnesty of the coupsmen and the evident usurpation of the powers of the judiciary in the Constitution. And it also seeks to delegitimize, delegitimize all those who face the coups; those forces and security forces of the State who investigated and faced the violent; that popular accusation of VOX who alone sat them on the bench; that brave State Attorney General, Mr. Maza, who rested in peace; those Supreme Court Prosecutors who did not kneel before the manipulation and pressure of the new State Attorney General, and that Supreme Court Criminal Chamber which, although shorter and more cowardly than we had wanted, handed down a conviction. [[applause]] [[applause continues]] On the contrary, this action of the Government, this initiative of its parties, what it does is clearly legitimize the coups, the violent and their accomplices. And the objectives are very clear: in application of the principle of retroactivity of the most favourable criminal law, reduce the sentences of disqualification of the thugs, of those who were convicted of serious crimes of sedition, embezzlement and disobedience, and also, how not, facilitate the return, return of the escaped cowards, from Puigdemont and his accomplices. But VOX fulfills; VOX said that he would sit you on the bench and sat you on the bench; VOX now says that he will again approve in the Penal Code the crimes of sedition, rebellion and embezzlement that all of you from the bench of treason to Spain are going to repeal, and we will do so by strengthening the mechanisms of the State so that the coupsmen will have it more and more difficult. [[applause]] That is why this very week we have recorded a proposal to strengthen precisely that authority, that official, that member of any government that incites, insists, collaborates or facilitates a coup d'état be condemned and, moreover, that loses the Spanish nationality, if not of origin, anyone that facilitates the rupture of the Spanish nation or that favors the outrages to Spain and its offenses. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Left Party of Catalonia, on the ground]] [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] This debate is a great opportunity to repeat...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u256	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u257	... loud and clear to those who do not know it out of ignorance, to those who have forgotten it out of cowardice and to those who hate it out of betrayal to Spain that Spain is not the goods owned by their lords, that Spain is not for sale, that national sovereignty does not belong to either the deputies, the parties or the parliamentary groups of this House. And it was the Constitution itself that made it very clear that national sovereignty - yes, national, not as some of the most common left pretend to call it: popular sovereignty - resides in all the Spanish people and not in one part; not in the Catalan people, in the Basque people or in the Galician people. And in that national sovereignty of the Spanish people reside all the powers, such as the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary. And it was that same Constitution, approved by the vast majority of Spaniards, that made it clear that there is no Constitution without a nation, and in its second article it made clear clearly that this Constitution that protects us is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. [[applause]] And because it is indissoluble, Spain cannot be dissolved either in globalist world governments or in European federalisms. And because it is indivisible, the unity of Spain and its sovereignty cannot be divided - term president - into religions or provinces... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u258	I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u259	That national sovereignty cannot be divided into religions, provinces, cities or peoples, because, whether many of their lordships like it or not, the Spaniards are legitimate heirs of a historical legacy, which, in a way of national usufruct, forces us to defend, preserve and improve this nation that we have inherited from the generations that preceded us, that fought, that worked and that died. [[applause]] [[The applause continues]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u260	Mr. Ortega, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u261	And we have an obligation, ladies and gentlemen, to give it to future generations. [[The applause continues]] That's why VOX doesn't stand idly by; that's why VOX summons the Spanish people this Sunday so that in front of the municipalities of all of Spain, he mobilizes, raises his voice and tells the whole of Spain that we want to be able to vote to cast... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u262	Mr. Ortega, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u263	... to the treacherous and complicit Government, to this Government of ruin. And we will because we believe in Spain, and that's why you have the complete assurance that Spain... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u264	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u265	... that defends freedom and the nation will win. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.-A Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: Long live Spain!-The ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: Long live!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u266	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal for the House Plenary's avocation of the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. This proposal shall be put to the vote together with the other matters set out below. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u267	We start with committee opinions on legislative initiatives. First, vote on the opinion of the draft law on cooperation for sustainable development and global solidarity. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 201 against, 52 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u268	The opinion was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u269	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of the motion for acknowledgment by the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final vote of the bill for the real and effective equality of trans persons and for the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 347 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u270	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u271	Vote on the opinion of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Temporary Energy Charges and Credit Institutions and Financial Credit Institutions and on the establishment of the temporary solidarity tax for large fortunes and amendments to certain tax rules, formerly known as the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Temporary Energy Charges and Credit Institutions and Financial Credit Institutions. The public vote has been requested by appeal. Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure provides that, in the public vote by appeal, your Members shall answer yes, no or abstention from their seats when called by the Secretaries, who shall read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, even if the secretaries who call you... [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. ...will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot, who was Mr Salvador i Duch. The Government and the Bureau shall vote at the end. I ask the Secretary to begin the vote first, please. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen who said 'Yes': Salvador and Duch, Jordi. Sánchez Escobar, Mariano. Sánchez Jódar, Marisol. Sancho Guard, Alfredo. Sancho Íñiguez, Herminio Rufino. Santiago Romero, Enrique Fernando. Sarrià Morell, Vicente Manuel. Paths Oraá, Daniel. Close Parent, David. Serrano Martínez, Juan Francisco. Seva Ruiz, Yolanda. Sicilia Enferez, Felipe Jesús. Simancas Simancas, Rafael. Soler Mur, Alejandro. Soto Burillo, Juan Luis. Sumelzo Jordan, Susana. Taibo Monelos, Diego. Telechea and Lozano, Carolina. Vazquez tin, Uxia. Love Torrealday, Roberto. Balañà Valley, Pilar. I saw Cantenys, Mireia. Velard Gomez, Martina. Vicente Viondi, Daniel. Vilches Ruiz, Maria Luisa. Villagrasa I want, Naomi. Zamarron Moreno, Agustín. Simon's shoe, Aurelio. Zaragoza Alonso, José. Meco Shades, José Luis. You take Galindo, José Luis. Aizpurua Arzallus, Mertxe. Alfonso Cendón, Javier. Alonso Suárez, Maria Olga. Alvarez i García, Gerard. Andrés Añón, Carmen. Andrés Barea, Josefa. Anguita Pérez, Omar. Antón Cacho, Javier. Aranda Vargas, Francisco. Upstairs Maroto, Manuel. Asens Llodra, Jaume. Azorín Salar, Lazarus. Baldoví Roda, Joan. Low Coll, Montserrat. Berja Vega, Laura. Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia. Botella Gómez, Ana Maria. Butran Pahissa, Albert. Well Campanario, Eva Patricia. Good Pinto, José Luis. Knight Gutiérrez, Helena. Calvo Gomez, Pilar. Calvo Poyato, Carmen. Canales Duque, Mariana de Gracia. Castro quarry, Zaida. Carrillo de los Reyes, Beatriz Micaela. Dantas oak, Maria. You marry Hontañón, Pedro. Cerdán León, Santos. Cerqueiro González, Javier. Courtesy of Gomez, Ishmael. Crespin Rubio, Rafaela. Four houses Asua, Juan. From the Valley of Iscar, Julio. Diaz Rodríguez, José Carlos. Diouf Dioh, Luc Andre. Durán Peralta, José Carlos. Elorza González, Odón. Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier. Galvan error, ñigo. Fagundez Campo, Antidio. Faneca López, Maria Luisa. Fernández Benéitez, Andrea. Fernández Casaro, Ana Belén. Fernández Castañón, Sofia. Fernández Pérez, Maria. Ferrer Treasure, Sonia. Franco Carmona, Isabel. Sources Curbelo, Juan Bernardo. García Chavarría, Maria Montserrat. García Gómez, Valentín. Garcia López, Maribel. García Morís, Roberto. García Nieto, Ezekiel. García Puig, Maria del Mar. Garrido Gutiérrez, Pilar. González Caballero, Miguel Ángel. Gonzalez Laso, Nativity. González Pérez, Ariagona. Granollers Cunillera, Inés. Guaita Steruelas, Sandra. Lopez War, Sonia. Guijarro Ceballos, Maria. Guijarro García, Txema. Guinart Moreno, Lydia. Gimeno guitar, Tomás. Gutiérrez Prieto, Sergio. Gutiérrez Salinas, Indalecio. Honrubia Hurtado, Pedro Antonio. Hurtado Zurera, Antonio. Illamola Dausà, Mariona. Iñarritu García, Jon. José Vélez, Rafael. Jover Díaz, Antonia. Lamuà Spanish, Marc. Loyal Fernández, Isaura. Lima Cid, Fuensanta. López Álvarez, Patxi. Lopez Cano, Ignacio. López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio. Lopez Somoza, Gema. López Zamora, Cristina. Losada Fernández, José. Master Moliner, Roser. Margall Sastre, Joan. Marí Klose, Pau. Marra Dominguez, Maria Ángeles. Martínez Seijo, María Luz. Matute García de Jalón, Oskar. Mayor Perales, Rafael. Mazón Ramos, José María. Medel Pérez, Rosa Maria. Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio. Mena Arca, Joan. Mínguez García, Montse. Muñoz Dalda, Lucia. Narváez Flag, Maria Dolores. Nasarre Oliva, Begoña. Navalpotro Gómez, Julio. Nogueras and Camero, Miriam. Oramas González-Moro, Ana María. Oria López, Mary Immaculate. Ortega Dominguez, José Ramón. Padilla Ruiz, Esther. Pagez and Massó, Josep. Stone Sainz, Raquel. Peña Waiter, Esther. Perea and Conillas, María Mercè. Pérez Merino, Maria Mercedes. Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen. Pozueta Fernández, Isabel. Nieto's friend, Ana. Pujol and Farré, Norma. Ramirez Carner, Arnau. Ramon Utrabo, Elvira. Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin. Ramos Rodríguez, José Luis. Raya Rodriguez, Maria Tamara. Rego Candamil, Nestor. Renau Martínez, German. Rodriguez Gomez, Maria del Pilar. Rodriguez Salas, José Antonio. Ros Martínez, Susana. Rosique and Saltor, Marta. Rufian Romero, Gabriel. Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano, Iñaki. Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan. Saavedra Muñoz, Marisa. Sabanes Nadal, Inés. Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'Yes' telematically: Vidal Sáez, Aina. Araujo Morales, Gemma. Bathrooms Ruiz, Carmen. Bravo Barco, Eva. She's in charge of Esteve, Joan. Prison Roces, Maria Luisa. Echenique Robba, Pablo. Gomez Hernández, Hector. Gomez-Reino Varela, Antonio. Lastra Fernández, Adriana. López Dominguez, Laura. Pérez Abelás, Adolfo. Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan. Government members who said "Yes": Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro. Diaz Pérez, Yolanda. Square Mount, Mary Jesus. Montero Gil, Irene Maria. Spiny Garzón, Alberto. Government members who voted "Yes" telematically: Belarra Urteaga, Ione. Members of the Bureau who said "Yes": Sánchez Serna, Javier. Hernanz Costa, Sofia. Pisarello Prados, Gerardo. Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria. Rodriguez Gómez de Celis, Alfonso. Batt Lamaña, Meritxell. Ladies and gentlemen who said 'No': Sánchez del Real, Victor Manuel. Sánchez García, José María. Sánchez Pérez, Caesar. Santamaría Ruiz, Luis. Sayas López, Sergio. Hold Just, Juan Carlos. Steegmann Olmedillas, Juan Luis. Suárez Lamata, Eloy. Tarno Blanco, Ricardo. Take off Ochoa, Vicente. Toscano de Balbín, Carla. Trias Gil, Georgina. Hate Bengoechea, Edurne. Utrilla Cano, Julio. Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén. Vega Arias, Ruben Darío. Velasco Morillo, Elvira. Zambrano García-Raez, Carlos José. Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria. Abascal Conde, Santiago. Alcaraz Martos, Francisco José. Almodóbar Barceló, Agustín. Alonso Pérez, José Angel. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Cayetana. Alvarez Fanjul, Beatriz. Angle Romero, Maria Teresa. Aragonese Mendiguchia, Carlos. Garcia, Inés. French ball, Edmundo. Bass Corugeira, Javier. Beltran Villalba, Ana Maria. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio. Betoret Coll, Vicente. You erase Pabon, Mireia. Borrego Cortés, Isabel María. Head Houses, Thomas. Cano Streets, Juan Antonio. Calvo Listo, Pablo Juan. Cambronero Piqueras, Pablo. Cañizares Pacheco, Inés María. Fucking beautiful, Eduardo. Casaro Ávila, Alberto. Castellón Rubio, Miguel Ángel. López Castle, Elena. Chamorro Delmo, Ricardo. Clavell López, Oscar. Constemla Carbon, Juan Manuel. Contraras Peláez, Francisco José. Courtesy Carballo, Mario. Cruz-Guzmán García, María Soledad. From Luna Tobarra, Llanos. From Meer Méndez, Rocío. From the Rodriguez Valley, Emilio Jesús. Delgado Arce, Celso Luis. Diaz Gómez, Guillermo. Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio. Elorriaga Pisarik, Gabriel. Mirror-Saavedra Conesa, José María. Spiny of the Mounts of Simon, Ivan. Esteban Calonje, Cristina Alicia. Fernández Hernández, Pedro. Fernández Ríos, Tomás. Fernández-Lomana Gutiérrez, Rafael. Bugarín gago, Diego. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo, Concepción. Gamazo Micó, Oscar. Garcés Sanagustín, Mario. Garcia Adanero, Carlos. Garcia Aegean, Teodoro. Garcia Rodriguez, Alicia. Gazquez Collado, Paloma. Gestoso de Miguel, Luis. Giménez, Sara. González Guinda, María del Carmen. González Muñoz, Angel Luis. González Terol, Antonio. Gonzalez Vázquez, Marta. Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, Fernando Adolfo. Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel. Hispan Churches of Ussel, Pablo. Hole Juliá, Bethlehem. Jara Moreno, Mercedes. Jerez Juan, Miguel Ángel. Jiménez Linuesa, Beatriz. Jiménez Revuelta, Rodrigo. Ledesma Martín, Sebastian Jesus. López Álvarez, María Teresa. Lopez Maraver, Angel. López-Bas Valero, Juan Ignacio. Lorite Lorite, Andrés. Manglan Albacar, Percival. Handsome Olivar, Rubén Silvano. Marcos Dominguez, Pilar. Marcos Ortega, Miracles. Marshal Anaya, Guillermo. Marshal Zabala, Manuel. Martínez Ferro, María Valentina. Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel. I'll kill Sáez, Juan José. Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel. Mendez Monastery, Lourdes. Merino Martínez, Javier. Master Barea, Manuel. Miralles Martín, Onofre. Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra. Montesinos de Miguel, Macarena. Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria. I live Almaraz, Mary Jesus. Movellán Lombilla, Diego. Vidal Muñoz, Maria. Navarro Lacoba, Carmen. Navarro López, Pedro. Snow of the Field, Maria Magdalena. Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de. Ortega Smith-Molina, Francisco Javier. Ortiz Galván, José. Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel. Pedreño Molina, Juan Luis. Pérez Díaz, Maria Auxiliadora. Pérez Remember, Isabel Gema. Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín. Prohens Rigo, Margarita. Ramirez del Río, José. Round Calvillo, Mary of the O. Quejo Novoa, Pedro Jesús. Requena Ruiz, Juan Diego. Riolobos Regadera, Carmen. Robles López, Joaquin. Rodriguez Almeida, Andrés Alberto. Rodriguez Herrer, Maria Elvira. Rojas García, Carlos. Romaní Cantera, José Ignacio. Romero Hernández, Carmelo. Romero Sánchez, Rosa Maria. Romero Vilches, Mary of the Kings. Rosety Fernández de Castro, Agustín. Wheel Perello, Patricia. Ruiz Navarro, Eduardo Luis. Ruiz Solás, Mary of the Head. Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, Pablo. Savá Verde, Antonio. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'No' telematically: Aizcorbe Torra, Juan José. Take Cuevas, Alberto. Of the Fernández Heroes, Patricia. Garcia Diez, Joaquín Maria. González Coello de Portugal, Víctor. Herrero Bono, José Alberto. Martínez Granados, María Carmen. Postigo Quintana, Jesús. Members of the Bureau who said "No": Suárez Illana, Adolfo. Gil Lazarus, Ignacio. Pastor Julián, Ana Maria. Ladies and gentlemen who abstained: Come on, Joseba Andoni. Nice Accensi, Ferran. Boadella Esteve, Genís. Cañadell Salvia, Concep. Esteban Bravo, Aitor. Gorospe Elezkano, Josune. The Uriarte Guard, Mikel. Miquel and Valenti, Sergi. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'abstention' telematically: Barandiaran Benito, Iñigo. Missing Members: Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, José María. The vote is over, he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u272	Thank you very much. Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] Consequently, the votes cast shall be scrutinised. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 186 against, 152 abstentions, 10. The opinion was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u273	It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law the parliamentary socialist and confederal groups of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo, organic of transposition of European directives and other provisions for the adaptation of criminal legislation to the law of the European Union, and reform of crimes against moral integrity, public disorders and smuggling of dual-use weapons. The public vote has been requested by appeal. Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure provides that in the public vote by appeal your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum, as we have just done with the other initiative. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, and that the rest of you remain silent so that it can be clear and audible, although the secretaries who call you will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot and who was, in this case, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. The Government and the Bureau shall vote at the end. I ask the Secretary to begin the vote first, please. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen who said 'Yes': Oria López, Mary Immaculate. Ortega Dominguez, José Ramón. Padilla Ruiz, Esther. Stone Sainz, Raquel. Peña Waiter, Esther. Perea and Conillas, María Mercè. Pérez Merino, Maria Mercedes. Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen. Pozueta Fernández, Isabel. Nieto's friend, Ana. Pujol and Farré, Norma. Ramirez Carner, Arnau. Ramon Utrabo, Elvira. Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin. Ramos Rodríguez, José Luis. Raya Rodriguez, Maria Tamara. Rego Candamil, Nestor. Renau Martínez, German. Rodriguez Gomez, Maria del Pilar. Rodriguez Salas, José Antonio. Ros Martínez, Susana. Rosique and Saltor, Marta. Rufian Romero, Gabriel. Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano, Iñaki. Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan. Saavedra Muñoz, Marisa. Sabanes Nadal, Inés. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia. Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos. Salvador and Duch, Jordi. Sánchez Escobar, Mariano. Sánchez Jódar, Marisol. Sancho Guard, Alfredo. Sancho Íñiguez, Herminio Rufino. Santiago Romero, Enrique Fernando. Sarrià Morell, Vicente Manuel. Paths Oraá, Daniel. Close Parent, David. Serrano Martínez, Juan Francisco. Seva Ruiz, Yolanda. Sicilia Enferez, Felipe Jesús. Simancas Simancas, Rafael. Soler Mur, Alejandro. Soto Burillo, Juan Luis. Sumelzo Jordan, Susana. Taibo Monelos, Diego. Telechea and Lozano, Carolina. Vazquez tin, Uxia. Love Torrealday, Roberto. Balañà Valley, Pilar. Velard Gomez, Martina. Vicente Viondi, Daniel. Vilches Ruiz, Maria Luisa. Villagrasa I want, Naomi. Zamarron Moreno, Agustín. Simon's shoe, Aurelio. Zaragoza Alonso, José. Meco Shades, José Luis. You take Galindo, José Luis. Come on, Joseba Andoni. Aizpurua Arzallus, Mertxe. Alfonso Cendón, Javier. Alonso Suárez, Maria Olga. Alvarez i García, Gerard. Andrés Añón, Carmen. Andrés Barea, Josefa. Anguita Pérez, Omar. Antón Cacho, Javier. Aranda Vargas, Francisco. Upstairs Maroto, Manuel. Asens Llodra, Jaume. Azorín Salar, Lazarus. Baldoví Roda, Joan. Low Coll, Montserrat. Nice Accensi, Ferran. Berja Vega, Laura. Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia. Boadella Esteve, Genís. Botella Gómez, Ana Maria. Well Campanario, Eva Patricia. Good Pinto, José Luis. Knight Gutiérrez, Helena. Calvo Poyato, Carmen. Canales Duque, Mariana de Gracia. Castro quarry, Zaida. Cañadell Salvia, Concep. Carrillo de los Reyes, Beatriz Micaela. Dantas oak, Maria. You marry Hontañón, Pedro. Cerdán León, Santos. Cerqueiro González, Javier. Courtesy of Gomez, Ishmael. Crespin Rubio, Rafaela. Four houses Asua, Juan. From the Valley of Iscar, Julio. Diaz Rodríguez, José Carlos. Diouf Dioh, Luc Andre. Durán Peralta, José Carlos. Elorza González, Odón. Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier. Galvan error, ñigo. Esteban Bravo, Aitor. Fagundez Campo, Antidio. Faneca López, Maria Luisa. Fernández Benéitez, Andrea. Fernández Casaro, Ana Belén. Fernández Castañón, Sofia. Ferrer Treasure, Sonia. Franco Carmona, Isabel. Sources Curbelo, Juan Bernardo. García Chavarría, Maria Montserrat. García Gómez, Valentín. García López, Maribel. García Morís, Roberto. García Nieto, Ezekiel. García Puig, Maria del Mar. Garrido Gutiérrez, Pilar. González Caballero, Miguel Ángel. Gonzalez Laso, Nativity. González Pérez, Ariagona. Gorospe Elezkano, Josune. Granollers Cunillera, Inés. Guaita Steruelas, Sandra. Lopez War, Sonia. Guijarro Ceballos, Maria. Guijarro García, Txema. Guinart Moreno, Lydia. Gutiérrez Prieto, Sergio. Gutiérrez Salinas, Indalecio. Honrubia Hurtado, Pedro Antonio. Hurtado Zurera, Antonio. Iñarritu García, Jon. José Vélez, Rafael. Jover Díaz, Antonia. Lamuà Spanish, Marc. Loyal Fernández, Isaura. The Uriarte Guard, Mikel. Lima Cid, Fuensanta. López Álvarez, Patxi. Lopez Cano, Ignacio. López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio. Lopez Somoza, Gema. López Zamora, Cristina. Losada Fernández, José. Master Moliner, Roser. Margall Sastre, Joan. Marí Klose, Pau. Marra Dominguez, Maria Ángeles. Martínez Seijo, María Luz. Matute García de Jalón, Oskar. Mayor Perales, Rafael. Medel Pérez, Rosa Maria. Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio. Mena Arca, Joan. Mínguez García, Montse. Miquel and Valenti, Sergi. Muñoz Dalda, Lucia. Narváez Flag, Maria Dolores. Nasarre Oliva, Begoña. Navalpotro Gómez, Julio. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'Yes' telematically: Pérez Abelás, Adolfo. Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan. Vidal Saez, Aina. Aizcorbe Torra, Juan José. Araujo Morales, Gemma. Bathrooms Ruiz, Carmen. Barandiaran Benito, Iñigo. Bravo Barco, Eva. She's in charge of Esteve, Joan. Prison Roces, Maria Luisa. Echenique Robba, Pablo. Gomez Hernández, Hector. Gomez-Reino Varela, Antonio. Lastra Fernández, Adriana. López Dominguez, Laura. Government members who said "Yes": Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro. Diaz Pérez, Yolanda. Square Mount, Mary Jesus. Montero Gil, Irene Maria. Spiny Garzón, Alberto. Government members who voted "Yes" telematically: Belarra Urteaga, Ione. Members of the Bureau who said "Yes": Sánchez Serna, Javier. Hernanz Costa, Sofia. Pisarello Prados, Gerardo. Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria. Rodriguez Gómez de Celis, Alfonso. Batt Lamaña, Meritxell. Ladies and gentlemen who said 'No': Oramas González-Moro, Ana María. Ortega Smith-Molina, Francisco Javier. Ortiz Galván, José. Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel. Pedreño Molina, Juan Luis. Pérez Díaz, Maria Auxiliadora. Pérez Remember, Isabel Gema. Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín. Prohens Rigo, Margarita. Ramirez del Río, José. Round Calvillo, Mary of the O. Quejo Novoa, Pedro Jesús. Requena Ruiz, Juan Diego. Riolobos Regadera, Carmen. Robles López, Joaquin. Rodriguez Almeida, Andrés Alberto. Rodriguez Herrer, Maria Elvira. Rojas García, Carlos. Romaní Cantera, José Ignacio. Romero Hernández, Carmelo. Romero Sánchez, Rosa Maria. Romero Vilches, Mary of the Kings. Rosety Fernández de Castro, Agustín. Wheel Perello, Patricia. Ruiz Navarro, Eduardo Luis. Ruiz Solás, Mary of the Head. Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, Pablo. Savá Verde, Antonio. Sánchez del Real, Victor Manuel. Sánchez García, José María. Sánchez Pérez, Caesar. Santamaría Ruiz, Luis. Sayas López, Sergio. Hold Just, Juan Carlos. Steegmann Olmedillas, Juan Luis. Suárez Lamata, Eloy. Tarno Blanco, Ricardo. Take off Ochoa, Vicente. Toscano de Balbín, Carla. Trias Gil, Georgina. Hate Bengoechea, Edurne. Utrilla Cano, Julio. Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén. Vega Arias, Ruben Darío. Velasco Morillo, Elvira. Zambrano García-Raez, Carlos José. Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria. Abascal Conde, Santiago. Alcaraz Martos, Francisco José. Almodóbar Barceló, Agustín. Alonso Pérez, José Angel. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Cayetana. Alvarez Fanjul, Beatriz. Angle Romero, Maria Teresa. Aragonese Mendiguchia, Carlos. Garcia, Inés. French ball, Edmundo. Bass Corugeira, Javier. Beltran Villalba, Ana Maria. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio. Betoret Coll, Vicente. You erase Pabon, Mireia. Borrego Cortés, Isabel María. Head Houses, Thomas. Cano Streets, Juan Antonio. Calvo Listo, Pablo Juan. Cambronero Piqueras, Pablo. Cañizares Pacheco, Inés María. Fucking beautiful, Eduardo. Casaro Ávila, Alberto. Castellón Rubio, Miguel Ángel. López Castle, Elena. Chamorro Delmo, Ricardo. Clavell López, Oscar. Constemla Carbon, Juan Manuel. Contraras Peláez, Francisco José. Courtesy Carballo, Mario. Cruz-Guzmán García, María Soledad. From Luna Tobarra, Llanos. From Meer Méndez, Rocío. From the Rodriguez Valley, Emilio Jesús. Delgado Arce, Celso Luis. Diaz Gómez, Guillermo. Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio. Elorriaga Pisarik, Gabriel. Mirror-Saavedra Conesa, José María. Spiny of the Mounts of Simon, Ivan. Esteban Calonje, Cristina Alicia. Fernández Hernández, Pedro. Fernández Pérez, María. Fernández Ríos, Tomás. Fernández-Lomana Gutiérrez, Rafael. Bugarín gago, Diego. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo, Concepción. Gamazo Micó, Oscar. Garcés Sanagustín, Mario. Garcia Adanero, Carlos. Garcia Aegean, Teodoro. Garcia Rodriguez, Alicia. Gazquez Collado, Paloma. Gestoso de Miguel, Luis. Giménez, Sara. González Guinda, María del Carmen. González Muñoz, Angel Luis. González Terol, Antonio. Gonzalez Vázquez, Marta. Gimeno guitar, Tomás. Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, Fernando Adolfo. Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel. Hispan Churches of Ussel, Pablo. Hole Juliá, Bethlehem. Jara Moreno, Mercedes. Jerez Juan, Miguel Ángel. Jiménez Linuesa, Beatriz. Jiménez Revuelta, Rodrigo. Ledesma Martín, Sebastian Jesus. López Álvarez, María Teresa. Lopez Maraver, Angel. López-Bas Valero, Juan Ignacio. Lorite Lorite, Andrés. Manglan Albacar, Percival. Handsome Olivar, Rubén Silvano. Marcos Dominguez, Pilar. Marcos Ortega, Miracles. Marshal Anaya, Guillermo. Marshal Zabala, Manuel. Martínez Ferro, María Valentina. Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel. I'll kill Sáez, Juan José. Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel. Mazón Ramos, José María. Mendez Monastery, Lourdes. Merino Martínez, Javier. Master Barea, Manuel. Miralles Martín, Onofre. Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra. Montesinos de Miguel, Macarena. Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria. I live Almaraz, Mary Jesus. Movellán Lombilla, Diego. Vidal Muñoz, Maria. Navarro Lacoba, Carmen. Navarro López, Pedro. Snow of the Field, Maria Magdalena. Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'No' telematically: Postigo Quintana, Jesús. Take Cuevas, Alberto. Of the Fernández Heroes, Patricia. Garcia Diez, Joaquín Maria. González Coello de Portugal, Víctor. Herrero Bono, José Alberto. Martínez Granados, María Carmen. Members of the Bureau who said "No": Suárez Illana, Adolfo. Gil Lazarus, Ignacio. Pastor Julián, Ana Maria. Ladies and gentlemen who abstained: Pagez and Massó, Josep. I saw Cantenys, Mireia. Butran Pahissa, Albert. Calvo Gomez, Pilar. Illamola Dausà, Mariona. Nogueras and Camero, Miriam. Missing Members: Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, José María. [[During the vote, Mrs Oria López, in issuing her vote, with the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group standing, said: 'Here we are all the Socialists together, without any cracks. Yes ".]] [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] - Several Members: That's not good! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, please. Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary first. Quiet, please. [[Applauds]] I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, to confine yourselves to saying yes, no or abstention. Subsequently, after voting on Mrs Perea i Conillas, a number of honourable Members say: They are recording! [[Rumors]] The President (spoke in French): Silence, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that no images can be taken at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to continue the vote with this noise. I ask you, please, to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the House, which obliges us all. The vote is over, he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-24-CD221124.u274	Is there any Member or Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] Consequently, the votes cast shall be scrutinised. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: votes were cast, 348; in favour, 187; against, 155; abstentions, 6. Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was twelve and fifty minutes in the morning.
