ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. Question by Mr Pablo Hispan Iglesias de Ussel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u2	Mr. Albares, his departure as minister was in the inauguration of Mr. Castillo, to whom he did not spare reverence despite the insults he directed to Spain and the king. His entire Government enthusiastically welcomed those who had been nothing more than a left-wing coup player. After a week with Peru collapsed, you have nothing to say? Today, the European Parliament is experiencing the greatest scandal in decades. His public statements about Qatar are not very different from those of the Socialist MEP Kaili; trips, photos and flattery to Qatar similar to those of his criminal socialist companion. [[Rumors]] Are you going to propose to Belgium to change its legislation by emergency means to exculpate as they do in Spain with their partners and fellow embezzlers? If his respect for this House were at least that of Pavia's horse, he would appear to explain his reasons and his trip to Qatar, in which he offered to invest his sovereign fund and give a qualitative leap to the relationship. Don't you have anything to say? [[A Member of Parliament: The King!]] Since February you have not appeared in the Commission to explain your policy towards Ukraine, the most important war in Europe since 1945, so asking for transparency with Qatar is like asking the Lazarillo to be honest. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u4	And it is that they have taken the State as a loot; that is how they understand politics and that is how they have occupied the institutions. That is why the Secretariat of State for Cooperation is going with development aid funds to Latin America to hold socialist rallies and ask for the vote for Sánchez. Isn't that embezzlement? And don't get nervous, that misappropriation for you is more a merit than a crime. Just listen to the praises of Mrs Yolanda Díaz and Mrs Belarus to Cristina Kirchner after having been convicted of stealing more than 500 million dollars. They do agree on that. Does it seem acceptable to you to convert Mrs Kirchner as a moral referent of your Government? Do you think the Spanish Government should also question Argentine justice? Do you consider that Argentina should pardon Mrs Kirchner and amend her Criminal Code by urgent means in order to free her from any crime as they do in Spain with her partners? Don't you have anything to say? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u5	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u6	Thank you very much, President. This question, Your Honor, shows that your group has nothing to say in foreign policy, which I remind you is State policy par excellence, nor in international policy. But it is even more serious, it shows that you are slipping through populism in international politics and that you are openly embracing the bubbles and whoredoms of the far right. [[Rumors]] I read and reread your question and - allow me, Your Honor - I thought it was a bit of a joke, because you were asking me about a fact that has not occurred. I don't know very well how you wanted me to answer it. On President Castillo, it is very serious what I read from the president of his party, Mr Feijóo, in an interview on Sunday, in which he said that government ministers had supported the self-attack. But I was saying that, as you said today, 14 hours later - 14 hours later - that this Government issued a communiqué condemning self-inflict and in support of the Peruvian Constitution and democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u7	Mr. Hispan
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. To speak of populists a government that has not left behind tyranny for supporting, from Venezuela to Iran, is a lot of jet. [[Applauds]] It is a lot of waste, but, as it is not customary to come to this House, it does not understand the functioning of our parliamentary democracy. I asked him about the castle coup attempt, about relations with Qatar, about Ukraine, about the support for a woman condemned for corruption by the Government and about socialist rallies of her secretary of state with public funds. Asking you to answer and live up to it is impossible, but if you do not fulfill your obligation, this group will. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u10	Your Honor, the problem of the People's Party is obvious, and this question is the tangible proof. You have nothing to say in the state policy par excellence of this country. The Government's statement is public and was issued two hours after the self-attack. What you said today is very serious, but even more serious was that Mr Feijóo, in an interview in a middle on Sunday, kept insisting, as if he had not communicated here. I've just made a trip to Qatar to rescue and exfiltrate our Afghan collaborators. I don't know what trip you're talking about. [[Applauds]] The problem is that you have an ideological agenda in foreign politics like all populists, spreading bulls and hooligans. They have an ideological agenda because they only approach Latin American governments when they are of their political sign, unlike this government, which is extraordinarily carried with a government like that of Ecuador and with the new progressive leaderships. By the way, from that rostrum, Your Honor, one of these deputies accuses seven democratically elected Latin American leaders of being radical, 75% of the population of Latin America! [[pointing to the speaker's rostrum]] [[Rumors]] You yourself, Your Honor, accused us of whitewashing Vladimir Putin for meeting with the Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, who is, yes, Russian. You said that we gave $130 million to Bill Gates, when we gave them to the bottom against AIDS and malaria... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT MEASURES IS IT TO TAKE THE GOVERNMENT TO AVOID CASES OF CORRUPTION BY THIRD STATES AS RECENTLY KNOWN IN EUROPEAN INSTITUTIONS? [[File number 180/001114]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u12	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u13	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. Yesterday we heard statements from several European leaders pointing out that it was a black day for Europe in relation to the Catargate case; a case of plot, corruption, the purchase of European wills. He therefore asked what measures the Government intended to take to prevent such schemes from affecting the Spanish State, but also several European institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u14	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u15	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this case concerns me exactly as you do, and I consider it extremely serious. We hope that the investigation being carried out by the Belgian Police and the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office will reach its final consequences. This demonstrates that international corruption exists and that international cooperation needs to be strengthened. The International Monetary Fund was talking about 2% of the world's GDP - 2% of the world's GDP - in international corruption, and that is why Spain has signed all the international conventions, the most important in the OECD, to address these challenges of international corruption and in forums like the G-20 Spain is at the forefront of the fight against corruption, because, if any is the sign of identity of this government, that is precisely the fight against corruption. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u16	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u17	Thank you, President. Minister, this goes beyond corruption, it is organized for the purchase of the wills of European leaders to change the opinions and reports of institutions with regard to those states that are often tyranny; in this case, Qatar, a place where, by the way, a football world party is being held that is also under suspicion. This poses a threat to trust in institutions, but it is not a single case, it does not affect a single institution. Just five years ago we saw how in another institution, in the Council of Europe, the plot of Azerbaijan came to light, that tyranny that was buying, through so-called caviar diplomacy, from several European parliamentarians, by the way, some member of this House and of the General Courts, including the President of the Parliamentary Assembly at the time. This goes beyond an institution and goes beyond a European state. That is why, yesterday, the President of the European Commission said that common standards must be adopted in the different countries. It is clear that Western democracies are in a situation of vulnerability to these tyrannys, whether from the Caspian Sea or from the Gulf. That is why I ask you, have you spoken to your counterparts in the European Union in this case these days? Are you investigating whether there are any cases of any Spanish citizens in this plot or whether there have been any of these cases in Spain? And, above all, if you can, tell us what measures they will take to prevent such cases from reproducing. I mean, it is not a case of corruption itself, they are plots that try to buy the will of European leaders, which is something that affects and undermines the confidence of citizens in both the European institutions and the Member States of the Union. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u18	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u19	Your Honor, I would insist that I fully agree with you both on the gravity of these actions and on the need to enhance international coordination because one country, Spain, or any country on the planet, the most powerful on the planet, cannot do anything on their own against these plots that operate internationally throughout several countries touching officials or politicians from different countries. In replying very directly to your question, yes, I have dealt with this issue in Brussels, where I was precisely on Sunday afternoon at a meeting with the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and on Monday I had a Foreign Affairs Council with the Foreign Ministers to move the readiness of Spain and the Government of Spain to cooperate in everything possible, and what I discovered is that the concern and desire to fight this scourge is common to all. Secondly, of the information I have at the moment - I insist, of the information I have at the moment - no, no Spanish MEP is either close or far being investigated. What we hope is that the Belgian Prosecutor's Office will come to the end, and what Spain is doing is precisely what the United Nations Convention against Corruption, signed by 189 States, and of which Spain is a party, indicates. We are taking preventive measures, we have defined these behaviours, we are further strengthening international cooperation and, to the extent that we can, we are involved in asset recovery, in the OECD as well. I remind you that there is a criminal type in Spain that precisely defines both the corruption of the international official and the fact that Spanish officials can be corrupted from international bodies. Don't have the slightest doubt: the identity mark of this government is the fight against corruption, and we will do... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JOSÉ ANTONIO BERMUDEZ DE CASTRO FERNANDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW LONG IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO PROMOTE REFORMS IN THE CRIMINAL CODE WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF FOLLOWING THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/001109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u21	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u22	Thank you, President. Minister of Justice, if your ministry has been characterized by something in this legislature, it is by improvisation and by regulatory chaos. An example of this is that we are carrying out no less than seventeen reforms of the Criminal Code; some are being directly promoted by the Government and others by the Socialist Group with the aim of circumventing the mandatory reports of the bodies that carry out the control of legality. Many of them are being dealt with in an express manner, without just debate and trampling on the rights of parliamentarians in this House, and so some laws such as the one alone are coming out, which has only served to unprotect women. But if that is serious, the more serious it is to suppress the crime of sedition by imposing those who committed it in exchange for approving the budgets, as Mr Rufián has recently acknowledged. To that indignity you have added yesterday in the Commission an indecent washing of face of the crime of embezzlement in order to lower the penalties to the corrupt. That is why I ask you: will you continue to give in to the blackmail of the separatists and continue to reform the Penal Code à la carte so as to remain in the government? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u23	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Look, the government is government because it enjoys the confidence of this House and therefore also enjoys the confidence of the majority political forces that support it. Or do you not recognise the outcome of the last elections and therefore do not recognise the legitimacy of this Parliament either? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It is not the purpose of this government to rule at all costs, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of this Government is to protect the social majority of our country, the purpose of this Government is to stand next to the people who need it most... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u26	..., the aim of this Government is to protect the victims, to combat corruption, and not to engage in confrontations between the territories. That is the purpose of this Government. [[Rumors]] With this government, we also think about people when we deal with all these kinds of legislative reforms; 175 legislative initiatives have already been approved by the majority of this House and, moreover, we do so courageously and we do so also with firmness and determination, despite the fact that you have settled in the blockade and in the constant disloyalty in that opposition. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u27	Mr. Bermúdez de Castro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have not seen you very convinced when it comes to defending these reforms, which have been negotiated directly by the President of the absent Government. You know why? Because they're going in the opposite direction of everything you promised in the campaign to vote for them. [[Applauds]] That's what's not legitimate. Madam Minister, we cannot negotiate with the People's Party the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and, in parallel and betraying the word given, agree with Esquerra and Bildu to suppress or reduce crimes to benefit those convicted in the trial; we cannot defend the Constitution and then assault the Constitutional Court with appointments and reforms to try to control that institution; we cannot defend the independence of the Judiciary and then insult judges from the Government when they issue judgments that they do not like, and we cannot change justice by votes, which is what you are doing now so that you can remain in power. Is that strengthening the rule of law and complying with the Constitution? No, ladies and gentlemen, that is called otherwise, that is called attacking the principle of constitutional loyalty, attacking the separation of powers and trying to instrumentalize justice for its own benefit, and that is going against the general interest and going against the social majority of this country and, if they do not believe it, calling elections and you will see the response of the Spanish. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u29	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u30	Your Honor, I see that you put the tirita before the wound, and the truth is that, as you say in your question, until when, until when, you are going to continue to block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, because everything, all that you have been saying so far should explain it to you, since to boast, as you have done, as your leader of the People's Party has done, of blocking the General Council of the Judiciary, of blocking that renewal, is a genuine democratic indignity, ladies and gentlemen, and you stand here stupendous. [[applause]] [[applause]] It is deplorable that its bloc is allowed the luxury of speaking of authoritarian drift, of self-attack, because who is only hitting the institutions of our country, democratic institutions is the People's Party. Recognise the reality: there is an obvious blockage of institutions that is due only to you, to your responsibility. Recognize the reality: from the December 2019 elections a legitimate government, a legitimate parliament, emerged, which has just obtained in this House, three years later, more than 174 legislative initiatives... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DEFENSE: IS THE MINISTER OF DEFENSE AVAILABLE IN THE CHARGE IF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP SUPPORTS A LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENT THAT SOME WAY MAKES CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/001110]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u32	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the drift of this government is breaking all boundaries, and, believe me, it cannot fall any lower. The President of the Government has decided that his party will legislate the dictate of the criminals, the same ones who tell him that they will do it again, the same ones who boast that with this legislative change they will be able to strike a stronger blow to the State. The Government to which you are a party is abrogating sedition and reducing the embezzlement of the corrupt to the dictate of the criminals. When the President of the Government said that he was going to bring Puigdemont he did not say that this would be by deleting his crimes, Your Honor, and this fact is as incredible as serious, as it was yesterday, when he said that they intend to give the judges a touch from his parliamentary group. Where's the limit? You are a judge, you have a special responsibility, you have compromised with the pardons, with the CNI, with the yes it is. How long, Your Honor? Where's the limit? That's happening, and you know it. That is why we ask you: are you prepared to remain in office if the Socialist Parliamentary Group continues with these legislative changes and ends up benefiting the corrupt? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u34	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I remind you that section 567 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary states that Congress must proceed with the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. You are part of the parliamentary group that is blocking this renewal. You and your group are therefore failing to comply with the law and a constitutional mandate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u36	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u37	The question you ask me I ask you: are you satisfied to be sitting there, in breach of the Constitution and the law? Are you? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u38	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u39	It is clear that you are ashamed of your answer, and that is why you do not give it, Your Honor. Leave the argument behind. Spain is already experiencing very serious moments. It's about your trajectory, it's about a life you've given to the law, it's about all that, it's about Spain. That's why you answer, Your Honor, your answer is disappointing... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u40	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u41	... and he is missing a great opportunity to say what we all hold, that a position, his office, becomes a burden when the principles are lost, that the Spaniards do not deserve a government that trades with the state, that can not be legislated at the mercy of the corrupt, because that will only bring more corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, in similar terms, hundreds of socialist positions have been expressed, former ministers, former leaders who reject the actions of this government, because their aim is to obtain at any price parliamentary support from the separatist parties and those who are against the Constitution. That is what your socialist leaders tell you, ladies and gentlemen, those who think of Spain, not you. We are facing a government pact with criminals for the sole purpose of remaining in power. This was not in the investiture speech, this was not in the Socialist Party election program. Therefore, Your Honor, this government is distilling fraud on all four sides and we urgently need to call general elections so that the Spaniards can give their opinion on the way we want to make policy in Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain does not deserve a government without principles, Spain does not deserve a government that legislates with criminals. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't deserve it, we don't deserve it, we don't deserve it, we don't deserve it, we don't deserve it, we don't deserve it, we don't deserve it. [[A honourable Member: Bravo! All right!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u42	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, leave the argument too, leave the canteen. [[Applauds]] I see a repetition. Don't worry so much about me, worry about you, that you are failing to comply with the Constitution and the law. [[Applauds]] I tell you one thing: as Minister of Defense of the Government of Spain, I am deeply proud of Spain, of its Constitution, of fulfilling it as a whole, not as you do. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u45	I am very proud of the judges of this country, of the Spanish, of all the Spanish, of the teachers, of the doctors, of Spain, of this great country, and I am very proud as Minister of Defense of our Armed Forces, those who, when you were in the government for seven years, left virtually unattended. Yes, I am proud to be Minister of Defence, as I am proud to be a part of a government, of this government, so you should think more about yourself. You, who are so concerned about the trajectory of others, are in breach of the Constitution and are in breach of the law. Do as I do, feel proud of Spain, feel proud of the Constitution and stop making noise. [[rumors]] Forget the argument, Mr. Rojas, you're smarter, you don't need to repeat what you're told in the direction of your party, you're smarter. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent. - OF THE DEVELOPED GIVEN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ACTIVITY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DO YOU THINK THE SPANISH CAN FOLLOW THE TAX EXHIBITION TO WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS SUBJECT? [[File number 180/001102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u47	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the first thing is to ask her to send a lot of memories to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who has been absent from this monitoring session today. It is a pity that he does not accompany us this week in which so many Spaniards feel so close, almost as if he were part of the family, or if not of the family, at least as if he were part of the national heritage. [[Laughter]] But, in view of the fact that the Minister of Economy is not present, we move on to the Finance Minister, and the temptation is to ask you if you are going to raise taxes again, but it would be a vain temptation, because I have already asked you that question four times and in the four you have failed the truth. We all remember that this government is not going to raise taxes either to the middle class or to the working class. And since then the Spanish middle classes have suffered as in no other developed country, not only because of the disastrous economic management that has left us behind in the recovery, not only because of inflation, which has impoverished the Spanish as never in the last forty years, but also because your Government, you, Minister, has raised the fiscal pressure in Spain to unsustainable levels and leading the increase in taxation in the developed countries. We will not recover the economic level of 2019 until at least 2024, but, according to its own Tax Agency, we already pay 26% more taxes than before the pandemic. Do you believe that the Spaniards can continue to endure the fiscal expoliation of this government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u49	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. You are right, Mr Espinosa, you are ill-luck when you ask me the questions, you are just talking about inflation today, when we know that for the fourth month in a row this country is lowering inflation and that it has the lowest rate in the whole of the European Union, which therefore speaks frankly that the economic policies being pursued by this government are exerting the desired effect, which is nothing other than alleviating the international situation to the families of our country and to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[applause]] Secondly, Mr Espinosa, if you call for a tax ban on energy, financial institutions and large capitals, let them look at it, because for the protection of the social majority of this country, those who are winning the most, those who have extraordinary profits, have to contribute more, and you are doing what you are doing here today is defending your interests. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u51	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u52	Your Honor, I do not want to disappoint you, but if inflation rises by 10% one month, the next month is 6%, it means that prices continue to rise. You understand that, don't you? Do you understand this? [[Rumors]] Prices continue to rise over the previous year. Then she explains it to the Minister of Economy. But the reality, Minister of Finance, is that you have raised companies, VAT, IRPF, assets, estates, donations, registration tax, that of real estate through a historical review of the cadastre... The truth is that you have introduced the Tobin rate, the Google rate, taxes on plastic, waste, air conditioning. The truth is that you have penalized savings by reducing the deductions applicable to pension schemes. What is certain is that the biggest tax increase, the biggest tax effort in this country, has fallen on whom do you know? Not about the rich, as you like to say, but, using your words, about the middle class and the working class, the same ones you have abandoned and the same ones, minister, who are abandoning you, because you have been a deception for all of Spain, but especially for your voters and especially for the middle and working classes of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u53	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u54	Thank you, Madam President. That you have to prepare it better, Mr Espinosa, that we are with the lowest inflation in the European Union, and that data to you spoils the headline, the lowest, thanks to the policy of this government; that this government, Mr Espinosa, has practiced the most important tax rebate that a government has made - don't make scares - to the middle class and the working class. [[applause]] [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: How, how?]] [[Applauds]] We have lowered VAT on light, we have lowered VAT on gas and, in the IRPF, we have lowered the complement of work. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, in those budgets which you have voted against, we have lowered taxation to the self-employed in this country, who raise Spain every day, and we have also lowered taxation on small and medium-sized enterprises, which earns less than EUR 1 million, 2 points in corporate tax. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: What barbarity]] Yes, this government lowers taxes on the middle class and small business and raises taxes - which is what bothers you financial institutions, electricity and large capitals. We're going to keep working in this direction. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHY HAVE YOU NOT ACCEPTED TO PROGRESS IN THE PROCESSING OF THE STATE'S GENERAL BUDGETS FOR THE YEAR 2023 THE AID FOR PUBLIC COLLECTIVE TRANSPORT FINALIZED ON 31 DECEMBER? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u55	Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u56	Thank you, President. Minister, why have they not accepted an amendment from my group in the general state budgets to extend the public transport aid that ends on 31 December to the Autonomous Communities?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u57	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mrs Sagastizabal, in the course of the debate and the dialogue that we have had with your parliamentary group in the budgetary negotiation, you have proposed to include in the draft budgets a measure which we all very positively value, such as the 30% subsidy by the Spanish Government on public transport which manages autonomous communities or the municipalities themselves. So, as I'm commenting now, we've already moved that state-owned transport will turn it into a structural measure, that regardless of how Ukraine's derived economic situation was, we were going to rehearse for a whole year that users could leave their private car in order to be able to use public transport to a greater extent. This will save the family and, on the other hand, also combat the harmful effects that traffic and traffic have on the environment. At that time we have already commented that precisely on the occasion of Ukraine's decree-law, which we will bring to this House in a few days' time, we would also have the opportunity to discuss with your group those issues which are of greatest interest. These days we will discuss it and therefore resume that dialogue, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u59	Mrs. Sagastizabal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u60	Thank you, Minister. The truth is that I expected a more positive or affirmative response in this regard by some statements made by some other ministers. You have seventeen days to be able to do it. It should not be forgotten that, as you said, the 30% reduction in the cost of transport, which some autonomous communities complemented up to 50%, was an extraordinary measure because of exceptional circumstances, a measure which was taken unilaterally by your Government, dragging the rest of the administrations to complement, regardless of who had the powers. And if this measure adopted in this way was effective before and circumstances have not changed, we understand that its extension is necessary. It is now impossible for the autonomous communities to bear the responsibility - as some are claiming - for whether or not this transport bonus should continue and for the latter to assume the full cost of its own costs, assuming a deficit of 30% which has so far been assumed by the State, without also taking into account its financial situation. The decision of the Basque Nationalist Party is for Basque institutions to extend, within their possibilities, these bonuses that came into force in September, but if you do not agree to maintain this extraordinary measure, the autonomous communities will hardly be able to extend it over time. In addition, we will meet with other autonomous communities that will not be able to apply it simply because transport is autonomous and their accounts will not allow it. If they do not adopt this measure, they will turn aid that has proved effective into partial aid depending on who holds the competition and, moreover, directed only at a part of the citizenry, rather than at the circumstances that motivated it; and indirectly they will make other self-governments assume an extra deficit of expenditure in order to benefit that citizenry. We will fight for this help and wait for that decree that they will bring, but I tell you that if this measure does not appear in that decree, we will hardly be able to support them. Because we also understand that this is an effective measure, which has been selective for a number of people with low and middle incomes, which has been used to promote public transport, to encourage emission reductions and which, in addition, helps to reduce the inflation we are having. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u61	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u62	Mrs Sagastizabal, most of us share the diagnosis of the kindness that the measures that have been taken with regard to the free public transport, and we know, more now that you have expressed it in this rostrum, the position of your group. I want to tell you that I believe that we are all of the opinion that it is a public policy that must continue to be promoted within the framework of all administrations, we must help to deepen these measures so that they can move forward. Therefore, we will see this when we bring the decree law, and, I insist, we will have an opportunity to discuss it with your group. And we also appeal to all administrations to do their part, as set out in the decree law. There are some autonomous communities that have done so, there are other autonomous communities that have not, but it is always a matter of complementing the measures that the Government of Spain is putting in place to improve the relief of families. In any case, we take note of your request and, as I said, we will have an opportunity to discuss it in the coming days, in the coming weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHY DO THEY NEVER TAKE MEASURES TO IMPROVE [[EAJ-PNV]] THE SALARY OF WORKERS IN THE BUSINESSES OF SERVICES TO PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS? [[File number 180/001106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u63	Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u64	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, since the beginning of 2022 we have been witnessing an unceasing increase in prices which has had a negative impact on public procurement. The increase in costs is not being transferred to public procurement, which is causing problems for companies, and in turn these problems have an impact on their staffing. You know that the Public Sector Contracts Act makes it impossible to review public contracts in most service contracts. In addition, this restriction is a hindrance to collective bargaining, which makes it difficult for workers to obtain wage improvements, and can even create problems in consolidating the workforce. The current economic picture, with increases in the CPI of around 7 % - up to 8 and 10 % - makes the increases in the costs incurred by these service contractors, of course, unabated; indeed, service contracts in which the majority of people are women, and precisely in sectors where wages are not very high. Minister, my group is asking you for a solution to this problem. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this effect in the general budgets of the State and we have also done so in Decree 14/2022, which is to be dealt with. It is an exceptional, temporary measure for the revision of public procurement contracts where the labour force is its main cost; it does not reach any other cost and does not apply to other contracts which have already regulated a statutory price revision. It is a review that, in the current economic context, as I have said, would allow companies to impact on the price the costs of the wage increase applied in the agreement, will facilitate the adoption of wage agreements, avoiding labour conflict and, in addition, the provision of the service is guaranteed. Minister, at all levels of the Administration there are problems in maintaining these contracts. In addition, it is a measure that is positively valued by trade unions, companies and administrations. You can tell me, as the contracting board has been arguing, that wage increases cannot be considered an unforeseeable circumstance, as they must be foreseen by the contractors at the time of submitting their bids, and that is true, but this argument is valid under normal circumstances, and we are now in extraordinary circumstances that we have not been able to foresee. These are increases in wage costs, yes, because of collective bargaining, but because of the current inflation we have. We are not proposing any definitive amendments to section 102 of the Public Sector Contracts Act, so...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have fully understood your speech, and I would like to make a number of points. First, of course, this Government has been very committed to the rise in the wages of all workers in this country and has been so through the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage which, as you well know, affects many service companies and has experienced an increase that is not comparable in any of the previous legislatures. It is therefore a firm commitment to the rise in wages, and we will soon be able to know what the Government is proposing for the coming year with regard to the rise to those workers who are most precarious in our country as a whole. Secondly, Mrs Sagastizabal, I would like to point out that the Government has carried out a surgical review of prices for certain contracts based on the impact of inflation, mainly in the construction sector, which was being seriously affected by the rise of certain products. It has therefore updated, in order and on a regular basis, what elements we consider to be subject to the updating of these public prices. Having said that, the government obviously does not share the repeal of the deindexation law, and I see that neither do you, because you know that this can lead to a second-round effect on the economy that will obviously deepen the inflation situation we have at the moment. Salary matters, if linked to the price of contracts, from our point of view, could have that effect. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we encourage the private sector to reach agreements with workers and to develop them through agreements or sectoral agreements. Obviously, during this period we each have to contribute our share: the company will have to contribute one share; the workers, another, and the Government of Spain will have to contribute another. But we believe that what the government is doing at this time of surgical review is what it is, and if we see that some of the materials continue to rise as important as in the past - which I hope will not happen because of the moderation that inflation is experiencing - we will act accordingly, but the proposal that you specifically proposed... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA FERNANDEZ PEREZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: DOES THE MEASURES ADOPTED BY HER GOVERNMENT TO CONTAIN THE ABUSIVE RATES OF AIR BILLETS BETWEEN CANARYS AND THE PENINSULA HAVE EFFECTED? [[File number 180/001100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u68	Question addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by María Fernández Pérez, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, given the latest information, do you believe that the work of your ministry is succeeding in controlling the excessive price rise of Canary Islands aircraft to the peninsula?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u70	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Fernández, we are aware and are monitoring the price of air tickets in the Canary Islands in detail. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that it was this government that increased the grant of resident tickets in 2018, from 50 % to 75 %. However, as I said, we are closely monitoring how these price developments are going and, of course, I also say that we are prepared to take those measures that are precise. That, too, must be borne in mind that we are still suffering in some way the impact of the health crisis, that there has been no stabilisation in the sector and that any structural measures must be carefully studied. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u72	Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u73	Madam Minister, we know - and not precisely because of the transparency of your ministry - that prices have risen by 18% on average, reaching 45% on some routes. Do you know what this price increase means when the 75 % discount on the ticket is increased? That public money is going to waste, or worse: it's going to the results account of big airlines. This excessive price rise does not explain either Putin's war or Putin's gas, which is a universal excuse for everything. This is the government's obligation, they have to control public money to know if it is destined for the end that is intended. And it is starting to be a bit frustrating that we have to explain to the Socialist Party over and over again that we are faced with a measure of social cohesion, territorial cohesion and social justice. This is not for the canaries to go on vacation and take planes at the expense of the state. This is a measure to ensure that people living in an ultra-peripheral territory have the same opportunities as people living in peninsular territory, and this measure is in danger when they keep rising prices! And who can stand them? The Canary Islands, which are increasingly far away from the peninsula; but, in addition, the peninsula is increasingly far away from us. Yesterday I visited the Valiente Small Association, which is responsible for giving floors to sick children who come because they cannot receive cancer treatment in the Canary Islands. There are people who take airplanes for work, for studies or for illness, and those people know perfectly well what it means to have only one transport option for their child to receive cancer treatment and not be able to take a car or train to sleep at home. Madam Minister, it has been three years since the summit at which the presidents of the autonomous communities of their own political colour made complaints to them, and absolutely nothing has been done! I'm not saying it, your ministry says it in the five questions I've been asked. Are you going to do something?- No, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u74	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Fernández, for your peace of mind, I assure you - and I can prove it to you whenever I want - that this ministry and this government are making a thorough check on the fate of public resources, as it cannot be otherwise. In this regard, we are also monitoring that increase in the price of air tickets that you claim. And although you deny the reality and the evidence, the truth is that the war in Ukraine has had an effect not only on the price of the tickets, but also, as we are checking, on the rest of the prices that affect most families in our country; but I insist, we are aware of that rise. We are also committed to taking the necessary measures. But what you are claiming is the establishment of a maximum rate, and I have to remind you that this establishment of the maximum rate can only be done by articulating a public service obligation which is only justified when an abnormal operation takes place, and that if it is not previously justified it can also have undesirable effects that cause a decrease in the offer of travel. We are therefore going to take those measures that are precise. You also know that we are working on a pilot project to analyze whether on any of the routes you can establish some public service obligation, but I insist, you have to analyze and study...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN AND URIARTE BENGOECHEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE NOMINATION POLICY IN NATIONAL PATRIMONY CONTRIBUTE TO THE REGENERATION AND ETHICS OF POLICY? [[File number 180/001112]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u77	Questions to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Edurne Uriarte Bengoechea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u78	Minister, the President of National Heritage, Ana de la Cueva, has just plugged into a high office in the agency she runs - she is a friend of Nadia Calviño, the first vice president of the government - and not only that, Ana de la Cueva has created former professor this job that did not exist in National Heritage, and has also endowed it with professional characteristics - what a coincidence - that are the same as those of her friend's husband. In the face of this serious case of nepotism, what measures will you take, Minister? Are you going to take any action? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u79	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it is very important that you put this question to me, and you know exactly what I am talking about. [[Protests.-A lady MP: Political violence.-A gentleman MP: Machismo.-A gentleman MP: Machista]] I want to start this answer by simply mentioning...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u81	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u82	... Article 1 of the National Heritage Act, which states that National Heritage is an entity governed by public law, with its own legal personality and autonomy. In other words, it has government bodies that are autonomous, government bodies that are their own, it has a board of directors with prestigious people, by the way, of very different ideologies. And, truly, I regret that you try to embarrass National Heritage, with the importance of the work you do for the Head of State. And with regard to the question that you ask me, I have to tell you very clearly that I am very much in favour of national heritage and public enterprises, any of them, attracting talent from the private sector and doing so with public competitions, competitive and absolutely in line with the law. Thank you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u83	I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Mrs. Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u84	Minister, following these personal insinuations, I believe that the Minister of Equality is going to accuse you of political violence against a Member! You're ready, Mr. Bolaños! [[Applauds]] But look, I'm going to quote you something you said yesterday. Literally he said: 'It is absolutely false that with the reform of the embezzlement the penalties have been reduced, they remain as they are'. I close quotes. Man! After this, of course, I am not surprised that you deny the evidence of the case of nepotism that has occurred in an organism that depends on you. I remind you of what nepotism means, Mr Bolaños: it means using a public office to favor a friend or a family member in the selection of staff. And in that body there has been nepotism at large, which, by the way, is going to cost at least 100,000 euros to Spanish taxpayers. You have already placed the husband of the third vice president of the government, Teresa Ribera, on the National Securities Market Commission. But you have now doubled the bet, you have created a job for the husband of the first vice president! And if you are able to create a Criminal Code to the extent of your convicted partners, how are you not going to be able to create a job for the husband of the first vice president?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Protests.-Mr. Castellón: Yes, sir.]] [[Applauds]] And that, Mr. Bolaños, is corruption, the corruption that defines the action of your Government. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause.- Rumors.- Mrs Cantera de Castro says words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u85	Mrs. Cantera, silence, please. [[Protests]] Quiet. [[Ms. Cantera de Castro utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Cantera, you called her to order for the first time! Silence! [[Pause]] Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. When I heard a leader of the People's Party talk about corruption, I listened very carefully to him because I consider him an authority in this matter. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That being said, I am deeply sorry that you are trying to embarrass National Heritage, an entity that is at the service of the Head of State... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u88	...the high responsibility they have. And, by the way, it's normal for you to try to mix different things into your question, because if we talk about National Heritage, why don't we talk about that project that this government is finally going to bring forward in the summer of next year and that you have paralyzed, as is the Gallery of Royal Collections, which is going to be so important for this city, for Madrid? [[Rumors]] A cultural and tourist reference, with more than 40 000 square meters of an architecture that will be emblematic and with works of art of enormous importance. But, of course, if you think about it, how will you respect National Heritage? If you do not respect the Government; you do not respect the institutions; you do not respect the General Council of the Judiciary, which blocks it; you do not respect the Constitution, you have been trampling on every day for more than four years. [[Rumors]] You are an opposition that the Spaniards do not deserve. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT HIS PARLIAMENTARY ALLIANCES DO THE QUALITY OF SPAIN DEMOCRACY? [[File number 180/001101]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u89	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u90	Mr Bolaños, speaking of democratic quality, I would like to ask you: how does the reduction of the crimes of sedition and embezzlement benefit the Spanish people on foot?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u91	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. So look, speaking of democratic quality, Spanish democracy is a democracy with a very high quality, as established by the international bodies that measure these types of parameters. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u93	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u94	You don't even know how to answer, do you? See, Spain suffers 280,000 thefts and some 14,000 illegal occupations every year; corruption costs us hundreds of millions of euros; and, for example, in Catalonia, separatism signals every day to families who want an education also in Spanish. But you do not legislate to fight crime, corruption or attacks of separatism, no. Instead, you change the Penal Code with infamous tricks to benefit four criminals convicted of the 2017 coup. From now on, the Spanish do not pay taxes for health and education, but for their embezzlement. From now on, hatred of Spain will be exempt for delinquency. From now on, stealing will be easier if someone is Pedro Sánchez's partner. You are necessary co-operators of separatism because, to see, what problems does a coup player have today in Spain? The police, that's why you humiliate her; the judges, that's why you control them; the law, that's why you destroy; or jail, and that's why you get them out. And on top of that they have the defachability to say that separatism is now more calm than ever. Man, of course! If you give them everything they ask! Thieves don't have to blow windows if you give them the keys to the door. And today, in addition, we already know that they want to give them an independence referendum. You know why? Because you went out to deny it yesterday. Look, Citizens, he has been warning since 2006 about what was going to happen in Catalonia and happened, and today we warn him of the Spain to which this government leads us. You have replaced separatism as the greatest threat to our democracy, because today the greatest threat is the insatiable ambition of Pedro Sánchez. The problem is no longer your partners, the real problem is you, and you think tomorrow's news is going to erase today's facts, but you've come too far. Because they will be able to pardon their partners, they will be able to forgive their corruption, they will even be able to erase from the Diario de Sesiones when we call bread, bread; wine, wine, and the flotro-terrorists, flotro-terrorists, but they will never erase what they are doing from the history of Spain or the memory of the Spaniards, and one day, sooner than later, they will have to be held accountable for it. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u95	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Like you, Mrs Arrimadas, at some point you have wondered why your party is in the situation in which it is. [[Rumors]] Listening to your speech, you will be able to realize that you are absolutely interchangeable with the ultra-right, with the extreme right, with the right that led Catalonia to that conflict and to that unbearable tension during 2017. I remind you that your question was of democratic quality. And look, this is precisely an example of a lack of democratic quality: an opposition that lacks the truth, that insults, that denies the legitimacy of the government. That is why your question also serves me to talk about what seems to be more interesting to you, which is not the democratic quality, but Catalonia. Of course, the Government is very interested and interested in solving the problem in Catalonia. A problem that was the most serious that Spain had in 2017, according to the Spanish, and that today is in the 45th place of the problems that the Spanish have. [[Applauds]] You know why? Because we have worked with dialogue, with understanding vis-à-vis those who lived behind Catalonia, like the People's Party; vis-à-vis those who live against Catalonia, which is VOX; vis-à-vis those who, like you, flee Catalonia. [[rumors]] [[protests]] [[Applauds]] We are programmed to seek solutions to the Catalan problem, and of course we do it with understanding and dialogue, and we do it with courageous decisions, because those courageous decisions are the ones that can normalize and those that are already normalizing the political situation in Catalonia. That is why it is no longer a problem for Spain. And I ask you in this, please, that it be not you as the nostalgic separatists of the confrontation, who are in it we would do it again. You would once again strain Catalan society, sow discord and confrontation again. We are going to work as long as we are government so that Catalonia is a habitable place, so that the political situation in Catalonia is normalized, and we are going to do so, yes, with dialogue, with courageous decisions and telling the Spanish face to face that we want Catalonia to be the engine of Spain and the European Union, not like you, which are guarantees of conflict in Catalonia. The right and the right in Spain are a guarantee of conflict in Catalonia and we are a guarantee of solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MRS CARMEN NAVARRO LACOBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: HasN'T she had enough with the law of 'only yes' to fall into my mistakes with the rest of the standard in processing? [[File number 180/001111]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u97	Questions to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Carmen Navarro Lacoba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, this parliamentary group is still waiting for an apology from a minister who, in order to cover up her mistakes, says that my bench promotes the culture of rape. Apologize at once, Mrs. Montero. It is not that the People's Party is hurt by its insults; the People's Party is hurt by its legal errors, by those who suffer all the Spaniards and by those who demand it to stop. I wish you were going to pass into history as the minister who walked down Fifth Avenue with her friends, but no, you're going to pass into history as the minister who lowers penalties, sentences and releases sexual aggressors. Look, you came to the government at the cry of 'brother, I do believe you'. What do you have to say to your sisters today after the law of alone is yes? The mistake of that law - as the whole of Spain already knows - is that they did not answer, nor did they understand, nor did they even read the report of the General Council of the Judiciary, yes, because you believe that it is written by the facades with toga. The People's Parliamentary Group amended it, and neither did they attend to it; even worse, because they think that we are the fairies, but without toga. And while, socialists, with and without toga, silent and complicit; some now even dare to talk about something like giving a little touch. Look, I'm announcing that the People's Party is going to fix your mistake, your terrible mistake, and I'm asking you, isn't it embarrassing that today in Spain raping is cheaper than yesterday? [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u99	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u100	Your Honor, the law alone does for the first time allow the State to protect all victims of sexual violence, those who report and those who do not. Therefore, no effort will be sufficient, and this Government will continue to work tirelessly until all forms of violence against women are brought to an end. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u101	Mrs. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Your Honor, there's no one to believe that anymore. The Spaniards do not endure so much intellectual indigence, so much legal incompetence and so much child arrogance. The Spaniards already deserve an election. You have come to the government to the cry of all, all and 'all'. But the truth is that today women are more unprotected, more uninformed and less free. Yes, you believed that to legislate was to rub Aladdin's lamp. And what did he find out? With the handsome Mr. Sánchez, who is the genius and who grants everything in order to stay in the Moncloa. Well, Mrs. Montero, not one more mistake. Your trans law must not go ahead, because we will not allow our children to ask tomorrow why no one stopped this nonsense. The People's Party has a commitment, which is to protect children and women, and another commitment, which is to repeal its trans law, its terrible trans law. You have prevented the appearance of experts in this House because you do not want a serious and rigorous debate on your law, because you know it is another mistake. On Friday civil society will have the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u103	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u104	Your Honor, first of all, as far as the law is concerned, it is, as I said, a solid law that allows us to protect all victims. [[Rumors]] Under the law, only any woman who suffers from sexual assault can be guaranteed by the State a specialized psychologist, legal counsel, free of charge or a social worker who accompanies her in access to all her rights, without any need to complain. We're going to build crisis centers open 24 hours, one per province. The collection and preservation of samples shall be ensured without the victim having to decide at that time whether to lodge the complaint. We guarantee access to repair. We create children's homes to ensure the proper protection of children in court proceedings and incorporate different procedural measures to accompany victims, and we combine this with other measures, such as those of the Children's Law, because no abuser can be a good father and we suspend the regime of visits to the slightest indication of abuse. This law places consent at the centre and, indeed, with such a profound change in the Criminal Code, it may take time to settle down and may also cause problems or difficulties in its implementation. Law 1/2004 introduced almost 200 questions of unconstitutionality by the courts themselves -127 were admitted to court -, the dismissals in the first seven years of application of the norm increased by 158% and a rule that everyone today considers to be a triumph of women and democracy in our country was called into question. In all rules, also in the Trans law, Your Honor, we are scrupulously following the Government Law. And trans rights, by the way, are human rights. Therefore, even despite your vote against, even though you are against the rights of trans children and trans people, in this House we are more who are feminists and who want the rights of women and also of trans people to be guaranteed. That is the most important thing that this Government is doing, Your Honor, to advance in rights. And if you ever want to tie your shoulder to build feminist rights, here we wait for them. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WILL THE LEGISLATION SITTING THE MINISTER OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/001103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u105	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u106	Thank you, President. Minister, I offer you figures and no data, lest you tell me that the data is sexist, and even if you don't like it, it's not violence. According to a recently published survey, after its failure, 60% of respondents - six out of ten - believe that their law, far from strengthening women's protection and punishing aggressors properly, is precisely causing the opposite effect, so they feel that it should resign as the main driving force behind the law. Catalan feminist associations - unsuspecting of sexists - reproach him for his lack of listening, sensitivity and the lack of contact he has had with these associations, qualified as an electoralist, contradictory and false Montero law. In the demonstration of November 25, convened by the Feminist Movement of Madrid - a little macho too - it was heard 'IreneMontero, resignation', in the presence of several ministers his companions. Three associations of judges have requested their resignation for insulting judges in the face of such a reduction of sentences from sexual aggressors in application of their harsh law. And finally, the Federal Police Union has also requested his resignation for the last campaign of his ministry, a video in which a woman is killed by her ex-partner and it is said that the killer is a retired national police officer who kills with his regulatory weapon. In addition, sexual assaults in Spain continue to grow: 3196 convicted of sexual offences in 2021, 35% more than in 2020 and 16% more than in 2019; 14 offenders released from prison; more than 50 reductions in convictions for sex offenders resulting from the application of their law. Faced with this panorama, tell me: Will you end the legislature by being a minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u107	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u108	Thank you. Your Honor, you don't have a problem with the Ministry of Equality or with whom you lead it, you have a problem with the feminist movement. Fortunately, both within this House and, above all, outside, we are more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u109	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u110	Thank you, President. Minister, you don't serve your intentions. The policies I have already told you are measured by the results and, as you see, most Spaniards of all conditions are outraged and very concerned about your negligent management at the head of the Ministry of Equality, which costs us more than 500 million euros a year of our taxes, so that you end up telling anyone who disagrees with your insanities that fosters the culture of rape, when your law is the one that puts rapists on the street. This should give you, at least, shame. And if you have a little dignity left, yes or yes, resign. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u111	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the feminist movement in this country in recent years has exposed violence that remained invisible and normalized, sexual violence. He says every day, 'We want to live.' He said, "It's not abuse, it's rape," "Brother, I do believe you." He has placed the distribution of wealth, time and care in the center. He said, "If we stop, for the world." He said that women are the ones who support the economy and life; he said that the rights of trans and LGBT people are human rights; he said that our body is ours, that we need guaranteed sexual rights and reproductive rights, that we need compulsory sex education. The feminist movement, Your Honor, is the best that this country has, the main democratizing force we rely on to live in a better society, where everyone can expand their opportunities for happiness and where everyone can develop their life projects. You are a very aggressive reaction to these advances, but also impotent, because feminists are more. So all I want to do this minute is to remind all the women who are suffering a situation of macho violence that the State is on their side, that the State believes them; that they can call 016 and receive psychological care, legal advice and all the support they need from the State and without needing to complain; that they no longer have to continue living with guilt, with fear, with the constant suspicion that they are the culprits of the violence themselves, and that they have a State on their side that believes them. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MR. POUJOL I FARRÉ, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE MANAGEMENT OF THE MINIMUM VITAL INCOME? [[File number 180/001099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u113	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mrs Norma Pujol i Farré of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u114	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. Today, just a week ago, we heard that 1112 families who received guaranteed citizenship income and minimum living income in Catalonia were left without the help of November due to a mistake by their Ministry. We estimate that the error affected between 8 and 10 % of the total recipients of minimum living income. If we extrapolate the data of recipients of the guaranteed income of citizens of Catalonia, although the data have not been made public, specifically, the persons concerned are all those who also receive the child benefit. The Department of Social Rights of the Generalitat de Catalunya estimated that those affected, all of them obviously in a vulnerable situation, stopped collecting an average of 560 euros, which were able to leave accounts uncovered, baskets of the average purchase empty or invoices outstanding. Planning for minimum living income without taking into account the existence of minimum income is leading to more management errors, a maze of processing and a real bureaucratic hell that directly affects the most vulnerable people. Therefore, we ask: How does the Government value the management of minimum living income?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u115	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pujol, we appreciate it very positively, but perhaps much more relevant than that is the extraordinarily positive assessment that they are making of the minimum income vital institutions such as the European Commission, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority or J-Pal, which is the most important network in the world of fight against poverty, whose leader, the Nobel Prize-winning Abhijit Banerjee, has asked to be our advisor and will be so in future developments of the minimum income vital. Therefore, the assessment cannot be more positive, not only for me, but for objective instances which have been clearly stated in this regard. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u117	Mrs. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u118	In fact, Minister, the civil servants' unions themselves have already stated that they are dissatisfied with how this benefit is managed. Go ahead that we are aware that anyone can be wrong, but when we talk about things that are so sensitive, we need to sharpen our senses and simplify processes to the fullest, also to make it easier to find mistakes. The Generalitat, for its part, has already corrected the error and will regularize the amounts to be collected in the next payment, but the real mistake is to legislate twice on the same fact and the same target population, with two different levels of benefit, two different access times and definitions different from the requirements. Faced with so many mistakes, we have two options: the first, cutting rights and leaving vulnerable families without guaranteed income of citizenship, the income that the most beneficiaries have and more money invests in Catalonia; the second, taking the path of responsibility, putting citizens at the center, prioritizing the fight against poverty in the face of overlapping between institutions and transferring to Catalonia the management of the minimum living income. Let's add, minister, the funds of the two rents and fight... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u120	Member, let me remind you that the law on minimum living income was passed in this House without any votes against, including yours, and that law incorporates a provision, the fourth additional provision, where it establishes not the transfer, but the possibility of joint management of minimum living income in Catalonia, which is what we have been trying to do since the law came into force, just over two years ago. The problem is that the Generalitat of Catalonia decided to appeal to the Constitutional Court the law of minimum living income, perhaps not very consistently with the agreement we had reached on the fourth additional provision. This has dramatically delayed the progress that we have to make between the two administrations for what is really of interest to Catalan citizens. What Catalonia wants is for us to agree with the two administrations and for us to have a unique window that manages the Generalitat and that really provides the fighting shield for the most vulnerable people and join forces both sides. But you continue to insist on a transfer that is unconstitutional, which the Constitutional Court has said. Minimum vital income exists - I would like to remind you - among other reasons, on the recommendation of the European Commission and the European Council at a certain time. You have managed the minimum income for 25 years, and I am not going to take out the incidences that have occurred in these 25 years; you have prepared them for me, but I am not going to say them. Imagine the incidences that have occurred during these twenty-five years of guaranteed income management in Catalonia. We have now spent two years and have made an extraordinary deployment of minimum living income. We have come in two years far beyond almost any other community in ten years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u121	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u122	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, on the need to reform the financing of small municipalities in order to correct the endemic aggravation in the model of taxation and financing of local finances in emptied Spain. For your defense, Mr. Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u123	Good morning, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Many of the small municipalities, which are the state's last terminals in the territory, have difficulties in managing their own competencies according to the Local Regime Bases Act, and also the improper ones, which... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u124	Wait a second, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause]] Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u125	... being from another Administration, such as the spaces and facilities of medical clinics, sometimes assume. Small municipalities suffer from institutional weakness, which is also financial, as another element of the inequality in this gap between the rural environment and the large cities that need to be closed down. We bring this issue precisely in order to provoke reflection, debate and, necessarily, to promote a change in the configuration of the financing of small municipalities, but also of many of the medium-sized ones, an administrative practice so settled that it would be said that it is already a structural feature in the Spanish State. The force of custom or the partial view of statistics make it even perceived by many of the people and those responsible who suffer them as if it were a natural fact, but it is not so. This is an aggravation in the financing of small municipalities, a sustained model for more than seventy years, and also the overlapping of other layers of public policy that, although not part of the financing of municipal services, complement and have a decisive impact on this administrative gap of the very different benefits that the State has in small municipalities, compared to those offered by large cities. It should be recalled that article 142 of the Spanish Constitution states that local hacienda must have sufficient resources to carry out the functions assigned by the law to the respective corporations and shall be fed primarily by their own taxes and participation in those of the State and in those of the autonomous communities. In its configuration, the system of local financing in Spain is substantially homogeneous, but it is precisely this uniformity, applied to very different administrative and economic contexts, which results in the income of rural municipalities being very different and radically lower than that of the income of urban municipalities, as corroborated by the Ministry of Finance itself in its publication on local haciendas in Spain of 2018, which says about the municipal budgets, and I quote textually: The average income per inhabitant is 1183 euros, being that of the stratum greater population, municipalities of more than one million inhabitants, 38.30 higher than the national average, while the average expenditure per inhabitant is 1093 euros, being 41.30 higher in the municipalities of the greater stratum, of more than one million inhabitants. That is, even by making the assessment - which we always question - of the distribution per inhabitant, the large cities receive more income per inhabitant than the small municipalities. This income is derived, on the one hand, from the participation of State transfers and compulsory taxes, among which are those that involve a greater collection for municipal consistories and, on the other hand, there are also potential or voluntary taxes, which depend on the decision to impose them by the municipalities. In addition, they may also establish collecting causes. Despite this tax system, in the municipalities of rural areas the income of local farms cannot and should not grow through increased fiscal pressure, both because of the weakness of local economies themselves and because this measure would have a depopulation effect, just the opposite of what is being pursued. It is admitted, and the data confirm, that municipal taxes generate insufficient returns for rural municipalities, because the fiscal capacity of rural municipalities according to their economic and demographic context is usually very low. Thus, for example, the IBI, because of its configuration, cannot generate high income to the local estates of rural municipalities, because the value of the real estate market is much lower, even if it is analyzed what individuals pay this tax more on the properties of the rural environment than those of the big cities, well understood that this consideration must be seen in a relative way, since the tax is subject to different values of the property subject to taxation. As a result, the IBI, which is one of the supports of municipal haciendas, has a high collection capacity in urban areas, but very low in rural areas. Something similar can be said about other taxes and taxes, so that in the configuration of municipal taxes, generally conceived for the whole of the municipalities, there is a bias that makes the viability of the local, rural and small municipalities themselves difficult. I repeat that we are not saying that we need to raise taxes in rural areas in any way, but that it is necessary to reflect on this configuration of local finances and a modulation of the participation of state transfers that contemplates the demographic and territorial characteristics of small municipalities in order to increase their capacity in the fight against depopulation. Faced with this limitation, rural municipalities are currently trying to meet their financial needs with state transfers. However, participation in these income is based on the total population of each municipality. From there, the small municipalities start from a disadvantage situation that fuels the maintenance of the current model. Rural municipalities will receive little income from state transfers because they have few inhabitants. In addition, these transfers are difficult to cover the highest cost per capita, given the lower population density and low economies of scale of much of the public services they provide. On the other hand, this deficit is barely offset by transfers from the autonomous communities and, finally, it is partially covered through the provincial parliaments, which carry out current transfers and assume part of municipal expenditure through technical assistance or the provision of services. As I said earlier, with the Ministry of Finance itself, the participation of local estates in State taxes is defined by a dual model. On the one hand, a model for the transfer of state taxes applicable to municipalities with a population equal to or greater than 75,000 inhabitants or which are capitals of the province or autonomous community and, on the other, a model applicable to the rest of the municipalities, defined according to the variables of population and fiscal and investor effort of tax capacity. The reality is that under the current system of state transfers, participation in the income of the state of the municipalities is essentially, and almost exclusively, based on the number of inhabitants, without just considering other issues and, despite the fact that the income levels of 2003 have been maintained, the smaller municipalities receive, through these state transfers, insufficient income to meet the cost of municipal services to be provided in rural areas. In the opinion of well-known experts, the local funding system benefits large urban municipalities and harms a large part of rural municipalities, especially those medium-sized municipalities that cover the economic activity and services of their area, the main reason for which is the dissymmetry of the transfer system regulated by the Law on Local Finances, which does not seek and does not have a levelling or equalizing function; on the contrary, it seems that its sole objective is to ensure preferably the financial sustainability of large municipalities, of large cities, while providing secondary care to medium-sized and small municipalities, which are rural ones. As a result, it can be said that State transfers to local funding follow a model that contradicts the strategy that the Government claims to have on the demographic challenge. What is happening in Europe on this issue? Let us take as a reference the recommendations of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities established in 1994, which represents local and regional communities within the Council of Europe. The European Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe itself sets out rules to protect the rights of local authorities and commits States that have ratified it to respect a number of principles. Article 9(5) of the European Charter of Local Self-Government states: "The protection of financially weaker local entities calls for the adoption of financial compensation procedures or equivalent measures designed to correct the effects of unequal distribution of potential sources of finance, as well as their burdens. As we have seen, and despite this mandate, the reality is that in Spain the small and medium-sized municipalities suffer a regressivity in the share of the revenues of the State that has become chronic. Moreover, if the fact that these municipalities do not have a viable alternative to increase their own tax collection is combined, we find that the local financing system as a whole contributes to the greater weakness of the provision of public services in these rural areas and, consequently, to the process of depopulation itself. The Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe has recently considered, in recommendation 465 of 2021, that Spain does not fulfil the mandate of equalization contained in article 9.5 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, because the system of participation in the revenues of the State, which regulates the consolidated text of the Law Regulating Local Finances - and I quote textually - is insufficient, especially in the small municipalities of the unpopulated areas, where the cost of providing public services is higher due to the low population density. The non-compliance noted by the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities is very relevant from the perspective of depopulation, as it indicates that Spain does not have a legal system that compensates for the financial weakness of small municipalities or depopulated areas. In this regard, from the perspective of the Council of Europe, the current regime of state transfers regulated by the Local Finance Act is not in line with the State strategy to combat depopulation and demographic challenge. Consequently, and the first conclusion, municipal taxes cannot cover services. There is an anti-rural bias in the regime of state transfers and, through different instruments, the large municipalities are over-funded compared to those of small or intermediate size, so that the legal system regulating local haciendas has now contributed to the depopulation process. Secondly, it is necessary to reform the instruments for financing local finances, in particular the distribution of State transfers, in order to comply with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and to ensure that the local funding system incorporates a principle of equalization in the capacity to provide local public services offered by the administrations, services provided by the municipalities, which are the final nodes of territorial vertebration defined in the State, which contribute to equal opportunities for citizens regardless of their place of residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Guitar, I've listened to you carefully. With regard to the issues that you have raised, I should like to say first of all that I believe that this Government - and it is fair to say this - has rightly placed the fight against depopulation and population challenge policies as a primary part of the agenda it is developing. I think that, objectively, with all the policies and all the data, including the budget analysis, can be shown. You know, because we have had the opportunity to discuss it with regard to the budgets, which, as we committed during the parliamentary term, for the first time the draft budgets envisages aid for the operation of the new employment for the creation of opportunities for the people of the municipalities who have a low population density, in line with what Europe allows. Therefore, we can and must address all the policies on which, like other cross-cutting policies that coexist in the Government, we must have a permanent look to know whether they contribute or harm what we want, which I believe is common in this House, which is precisely to promote social cohesion, the territorial cohesion of the whole country, which means having a positive look of discrimination on those municipalities which, in fact, are currently at real risk of depopulation. You spoke in your intervention about the local funding model. It is a model, as your Lordship knows, which was worked in parallel to the model of autonomous financing. This is not accidental because sometimes the competence of the services provided in the territory is vested in the autonomous communities and sometimes lies in the municipalities. Let's put as examples the health service, the educational service, care for dependency, housing policies... All of them have a marked autonomy character and, therefore, it would not be useful only to tailor-made financing for local municipalities - what they called their own competences - but, moreover, we have to accompany it with funding from the autonomous communities that allows us to cover - or at least get closer - the cost of services provided in dispersed territories - unequal the variable we use - in which, in fact, the population density does not have the same indicators of comparability as in large cities or large municipalities. Therefore, when we talk about local financing in parallel, we have to talk about, in order to tackle this problem, autonomous financing because also within that umbrella we have to contemplate in what proportion the variables of demographic challenge, of dispersion, of population density, all the approaches we have on this issue. This has to allow us, in short, to provide additional resources to per capita funding, which, as you know, is usually the equal element of resource allocation that is used at the core of any funding model. Just so, Mr Guitarte, I would say that the battle horse for the revision of the model of autonomous and local financing is how much it weighs and to what extent these variables, these different approaches have to be contemplated, in order to make the distribution of the corresponding resources, regardless of whether we can all agree, even though you were doing some matification in your intervention, in which we need a reformulation to give greater resources to autonomous financing and local financing. I tell you this because the more than eight thousand municipalities that exist in our country do not have common denominators that allow us to state that their situation is due to the fact that they are small municipalities, large municipalities of medium size; and I explain myself, Your Honor. You said that probably the populated municipalities or that have a high population are over-funded. I don't think that's the case. I believe that a revision of the model should be made at this time so as to provide all territorial entities with a higher volume of resources than they had at previous times. Although we have also been aware, Mr Guitarte, throughout this period that, indeed, depending on the time of the economic cycle, funding models give greater or lesser coverage. In other words, what was revealed in the previous financial crisis was that the funding models did not have a reserve fund and a capacity to provide resources when the State's collection fell as it did during the financial crisis, which greatly affected the ability to dispose of resources from the rest of the territorial entities. In the more than eight thousand municipalities that exist in our country - and we have analyzed it very deeply - there is no common denominator that allows us to say that the municipalities that have lower population density or that the municipalities that have certain characteristics are more indebted. There is such a disparate situation regarding the indebtedness and surplus of the subsector as a whole that it is difficult to implement measures that can be applicable, without discretion, to all the realities that exist in the municipal environment and, specifically, as you said, in the most rural within the entire municipality that we have in our country. Theoretically, the local funding model means that small municipalities have 12% more funding than all municipalities in other sections of the population. For example, the 233 municipalities of Teruel that have a population of less than 5000 inhabitants have had an increase in deliveries on account in 2022 compared to the previous year of 13,5 %, and the per capita financing in this year has been 220 euros, when the national average is 197 euros per inhabitant. We can ask ourselves whether this differential that these small municipalities have is sufficient to meet the diversity of services that they have to provide to the population or how other administrations - for example, provincial parliaments - can be able to provide a certain economy of scale in the provision of services that would, of course, benefit the set of public accounts in this territorial area. As you know, it is not a simple debate, it is not an easy debate. All resources are competitive. This means that it is difficult for municipalities to agree on all the reality within them - I have to admit, Mr Guitarte - and that there is a certain consensus on how further progress is to be made. The most concrete example we have had has to do with autonomous financing. You know that we have been in Moncloa for several years, trying to reach a consensus for the reform of the funding model and we do not manage to have a common denominator - beyond the variable of the population's weight in nuclear terms of the model - that allows us to know the percentage of dispersion, insularity, aging or other variables. Everyone understands that they have to exist, but what has to be considered is in what proportion. For the next year we have not only put in place an improvement in the overall financing system of local entities, which will receive 5% more resources, but, as you know, we have also incorporated a fund that has been repeated over the past three years to compensate for what we call negative liquidation over the year 2020, so that municipalities become that negative liquidation in three years; as well as the autonomous communities do in one, in local entities it takes place in three years. In fact, we have launched the fund with more than EUR 1 billion to prevent local authorities from paying for the rainfall in 2020 due to the pandemic - as your honor will recall - so we have sought that for the financing of all territorial administrations it is as if the fall in GDP that occurred during the pandemic had not occurred. This means that we provide them with resources over and above how GDP behaved and we have not demanded - as the financing system establishes - that they return to the State that part of the deliveries on account that did not correspond to reality. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, you know that for the Autonomous Communities we also have, and I always carry it in parallel, the COVID funds that enabled us to deal with this issue. Therefore, Mr Guitarte, we share the need for us to focus on how and how we contribute from local funding to improving the demographic challenge. It is a variable that must undoubtedly have an effect, even though the funding seeks, no more or less, that we are able to afford the services that administrations have to implement. This must be complemented by other policies, such as employment promotion policies, investment attraction policies and other policies, which I sincerely believe the Government is following with this constant look at any legislative initiative and transfer of funds, also on the occasion of the Recovery Mechanism, since the demographic challenge is present in many of the lever policies that are being developed; although it is true that, for example, with regard to fisheries, there are some policies that clearly cannot be translated into such territories, but in general terms, so I believe that we must continue to make progress in this regard. Here the question is to find the key to justice in the parameters that I was commenting on, which are being difficult to reach. What I can promise you is that in the next model of local funding there will be a variable that discriminates positively against small municipalities and will allow them to provide more resources so that they can continue to provide services, just as we will also have to work in the area of pooled services and provincial parliaments because, regardless of that issue, we need to continue to deepen cooperation as a mechanism to provide services more efficiently for all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u129	Madam Minister, it is a fact that in Spain the fiscal pressure of the inhabitants of the depopulated areas is similar to that of those living in superpopulated areas, even though they do not have the same services at their disposal. I do not say that, it is the opinion of experts who have been investigating this issue for a long time. [[The Lord]] The model of local financing and municipal services does not help to reverse depopulation, on the contrary, favours the depopulation of areas already depopulated. For example, Professor Francisco Velasco explains this in a closer comparison. A neighbor of Pures, which is a municipality of the province of Valladolid with about fifty inhabitants, contributes an average of 425 euros per year of its taxes; a neighbor of Valladolid, a city that is now around 299000 inhabitants, contributes an average of 427 euros, that is, practically the same. The problem is that Valladolid's services to its neighbours - water, lighting, asphalt, sports facilities, transportation, culture, leisure, gardening, police - are many, many more, and far superior to those offered by the small municipality of Puras, which will hardly be limited to water, lighting, asphalt and little more. This example summarizes to a large extent the problem we are facing. Spain has left rural municipalities and small cities to be a country of large cities. If you remember, since the 1950s we have been educated in this way, we were told about the great Madrid, the great Barcelona; they are an inheritance of those years in which all development policies were concentrated in the cities. Subsequently, in the 1980s, in order to rebuild neighbourhoods and cities that had received the flows of rural exodus, the State's effort also concentrated on large cities and, throughout the 1990s, local policy also concentrated efforts, investments and programmes in large cities for their economic promotion or for international competition between capitals. The issue is that today, in the twenties of the twenty-first century, the tendency to concentration and the contrasts between local haciendas continue to grow. We have seen earlier the recommendations that come from the European Council, and we can also take other models, as proposed, for example, by the research project 'Local public policies and services against depopulation' being carried out by the Institute of Local Law of the Autonomous University of Madrid, or by following the example of Canada, where the State does not provide funding to large cities such as Toronto because they can generate their own income, while it does provide specific and differentiated funding according to the conditions of each municipality to small populations. We could lose ourselves in local funding data, in which aggregation does not include many of the details that should be added or all the aspects through which the state is strengthening the big cities starting with Madrid or Barcelona, a political line that, as we have pointed out, has been maintained for more than seventy years. Fair and equitable would be to strengthen local government in rural areas to overcome these policies of abandonment or simple adaptation to the depopulation process in order to initiate a new model of financing local finances and small municipalities that would really contribute to the reversal of the depopulation process. Rather than analysing the impact of transfers from higher levels on administrations, we must focus on the effects of this funding on the services that municipalities can offer to people living in them, to the extent that they contribute to improving the quality of life. Therefore, in this intervention we want to turn the gaze towards typically municipal vectors of action, such as the offer of public services or economic dynamism, with which one can also contribute to settle population, but there the small municipalities have very difficult. The big cities can even, and we are seeing, reduce the tax burden, make the point that they decrease it and offer scholarships to the resident population, incentives to attract businesses and boost new centers and cultural activities that will be focussing on increasing economic activities and tourism, resulting in a greater fortress of the city. Even considering that we are talking, and we know, about very different scales, none of this, for example, can be done from the local estates of small municipalities, and both institutions feed on public budgets for purposes that should be common. Does it not seem to them that this situation contains an inequality of the rights of the citizens of the same State and that this inequality is being reinvigorated and is being reinvigorated by the State's own action? We believe that it is time to analyse the trend, listen to experts and think that strong local governments are needed, which requires adequate funding because from local funding we can work more effectively towards combating depopulation. It is time to rethink, to change the approach of local financing policy and, for social justice, to overcome the grievances not always explicit or contemplated in the statistics contained in the current system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u130	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Guitarte, I repeat what I was saying to you, we share many of the analyses regarding the historical origins that have led previous governments - I think it is fair to say this - to relegate these municipalities to the background rather than to play the leading role that they should play. We are therefore all convinced that we must move in that direction. Without going further - as I usually recall - no more or less than a vice-president of the Government bears responsibility for the demographic challenge, it is placed on the agenda and even on the structure of the Government itself. I believe that this is a step forward that must be recognizable and that must continue in the future because it is truly contributing to us being able to deploy the entire plan to combat depopulation and the demographic challenge that the Government has undertaken in dialogue with the FEMP and with social actors and entities. Therefore, our commitment is more alive than ever. But I cannot share what you suggest that this government is not really helping small municipalities. I believe that the look and the actions confirm that this government, every time it develops a distribution of funds or has to implement policies that boost economic growth, has a unique look at the small municipalities. In addition, Your Honor, those who have a higher risk of depopulation are in a situation of greater vulnerability, so we must try by all means that it will never materialize. We also denounce, of course, what you said in the rostrum, that some municipalities - it is not the same situation as the autonomous communities, fortunately - use better funding to make a policy of tax cuts that can lead us to a spiral or to fiscal dumping that causes other territories to be at a disadvantage. You know my opinion perfectly well because I have given it many times on this issue, which I think we need to correct when we change the models because, in fact, we cannot give the case that some people can afford it because of their centrality, their volume or their population capacity, creating such significant differences, which does not mean that the municipal governments must have powers with regulatory capacity, and in that we can also agree because that is also where local autonomy lies, which I believe we all defend here. But I will give you a fact, Mr. Guitarte, which will allow you to better contextualize what you said earlier. The municipalities in Spain that currently have a population of less than 5000 inhabitants have a positive net savings within their accounts. This means they have surplus, it doesn't mean they're over money. I always say that no one interprets the surplus as if someone is left with the money, because what the tax rules are looking for is to pose a surplus situation for a better sustainability of public accounts in the future, but if we compare, that previously told them that it is an exercise of much interest, how that subsector behaves within the whole of the municipalities, they have a positive net saving. For example, in Teruel, in its province, only 25 municipalities of 233 with a population of less than 5000 have presented a net negative savings, 25 of 233, and of the 15 municipalities that exist today in Spain in a situation of extreme risk in relation to their public accounts none are in the province of Teruel. Does this mean that some manage better than others or that the data in their public accounts respond only to funding or to good or bad management? No, they respond to multiple variables and therefore do not have a single cause: not everyone who has positive net savings is because he manages better or the opposite, nor everyone who has an extreme risk situation is because he does not manage well, often derive from situations inherited from over-indebtedness, even corresponding to previous corporations, which one has to try to deal with. Therefore - I conclude, Your Honor - we must continue to move in this direction. I think we can agree that the next reform of local funding must take an express look at low-density municipalities, just as I think we must continue to push for measures such as those envisaged in the draft budgets so that the current employment in that area has a lower social security cost and that the new employment, even in the municipalities with a thousand inhabitants or less than a thousand inhabitants, can have up to 20% of operating aid, which means, Sir, making the most of the European Union's capacity. We will continue to work in that direction, and in that case we look forward to the support of your group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u132	Thank you. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE CENTRAL EXECUTIVE TO ARTICLE MORE AGIL AND EFFECTIVELY DISTRIBUTION OF THE EUROPEAN FUNDS, INCLUDING THE PART RELATING TO VALUE LOANS OF SOME 80,000 MILLION EUROS WHICH THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT PROVIDED FOR [[EAJ-PNV]] BEFORE THE YEAR'S FINALS. [[File number 172/000254]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u133	Urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, to the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, on the measures to be taken by the central executive to articulate in a more agile and effective way the distribution of European funds, including the part relating to loans worth about 80 billion euros that the Spanish Government will presumably request before the end of the year. [[EAJ-PNV]] For your defence, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u134	Thank you, President. Egun on, minister, again. The truth is that it is not the first interpellation in relation to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, in relation to the funds or in relation to the PERTE by the different political groups in this House, which we understand shows that, despite our differences, there is a concern for their implementation and execution, because on them not only economic growth depends, but also the change in the productive model. My group is very aware of what Europe's opportunity to not only get out of the crisis, but to transform this economic model; transformations that, if done well, will change industries, boost new business models, market niches, generate opportunities for innovation and employment and improve productivity, as well as develop the capacity to adapt and respond in time and form to complex situations, building on existing industrial, social and economic capacities. It is necessary to have a competitive and sustainable productive system, and this is what Europe is making easier for us with these funds, because globalisation, as the pandemic has shown us, is no longer manufacturing cheaply in countries where costs are economic, but globalisation is going to go ahead with the rest through technology and innovation, and it is going to respond to the global challenges that arise. It has been more than a year since the recovery plan will be approved in April 2021, and it would not be fair to say that no progress has been made in it, although it does not seem to be at the pace it was planned. We could therefore talk about progress with its lights and shadows, and it is that as time passes doubts arise both about its execution and its impact on the real economy; two variables, therefore, that have become a focus of additional uncertainty not only for economic growth, but also, as I said, for the transformation of the current economic model. Minister, his execution is being questioned and, at the same time, the idea is being established and extended that these funds will eventually become a lost opportunity and, in our view, there are several reasons for this. One, indeed, is a complex plan in which reforms were designed and the distribution between ministries and autonomous communities was agreed. However, the plan has not obeyed a shared work, which my group requested from the outset, and whose result has been a centralized plan that has not had a real and effective co-governance with the rest of the administrations either in its design or in its implementation, when the autonomous communities are the best connoisseurs of economic and social reality, because co-governance is not to convene many sectoral information conferences in which the criteria of the Government prevail and are imposed and in which the autonomous communities are relegated to act as mere executors of management commissions. This lack of collaboration in this design and implementation makes it impossible in many cases to implement part of these funds because, first, the actions for which they are designated do not take into account the particularities of each region or because they are intended for purposes that have already been carried out by the autonomous communities themselves with their own funds. I'll give you an example. In Euskadi, 20% of the funds allocated through a sectoral conference have not been implemented, precisely because the design by the Administration is not in line with this reality. What's going to happen to that unexecuted part? Will it be possible to adapt to the reality of the autonomous communities? These are questions we don't have answers to. There are even funds that have not arrived, which are denied on the grounds that the autonomous communities have competence in the matter for which they are intended, something out of the ordinary, because the Next funds were given to countries precisely because they are in the European Union and as a result of the pandemic, taking into account its impact, and not because they have or do not have certain competences. Look, the European Union's regulation also advocates giving prominence, listening to the regions, and this has not happened with regard to the first package of funds in the form of grants, although we now understand that there is a new opportunity with the addition, with the loans that the Government has already announced that they will be requested; an opportunity to listen, this time, to the autonomous communities and incorporate regional criteria into it, as these loans will affect their borrowing capacity. However, nothing is known about it, even though the First Vice-President asked the Autonomous Communities for their contributions. Today we already read headlines about a plan to facilitate the arrival of European funds through the adjunct with banks and yet there is no government response to the proposals of the autonomous communities. Absolute hermetism in front of a window of opportunity to design the most appropriate reforms and investments connected with the economic and social fabric. Secondly, with regard to tractor projects, the PERTE, the projects called to become the lever of the recovery plan and the best way for money to reach the business fabric, the balance sheet is somewhat discouraging. After eleven approved and one more announced PERTE, most of the committed public investment is unimplemented; only 9 % of the total has been allocated, and 9 billion calls are not equal to allocation and execution. There is PERTE with many shadows, such as the PERTE VEZ, which has been delayed and executed less than expected and which, moreover, has caused a second call to be projected, such as the one for decarbonization semiconductors, which continues to stand by, and PERTE with excessive bureaucratic procedures, with very restrictive execution times that are discouraging the economic fabric. All of this should make us rethink what's wrong with its design. We should at least carry out a self-criticism and rigorous analysis to modify the conditions and requirements that should be achieved, listening to the sectors, not only because of the importance of PERTE for the transformation of the productive fabric, but also because it is necessary to adapt them to the new context of uncertainty, inflation and increased funding, as the rise in interest rates is forcing companies to review their investment plans, because the profitability figures for each project have already changed. By the way, PERTE or regional projects were also requested from the Autonomous Communities and they have not had any response from their ministry. Third, implementation and impact data. We have been in two years when European funds have been raised in the general budgets of the state as the determining factor for economic growth, and reality has shown us that both the implementation rate and its impact on GDP has been lower; here are the data from the Banco de España. The government speaks in its forecasts of an impact of 2.6% of average GDP over a decade, an optimistic forecast if we take into account the successive downward revisions that have experienced the macroeconomic effects on the use of these funds. By 2022, the latest published forecasts reduce the impact to 1 point, compared to the estimated 1.4% at the beginning of the year. For 2023, an impact of 0.6% on the GDP growth rate is estimated, far from the projected 2.6% average. The Government insists that the funds have reached their cruising speed and that it will be in 2023 when their greater deployment occurs, but the fact is that the data do not seem to support either the cruising speed or the deployment either, because one thing is the commitment of expenditure or even the recognized obligation and another thing is that this implies that they are executed and that the Next funds are arriving and deploying at that cruising speed at the final recipient. The truth, Minister, is that we still do not have certain data on the effective implementation of these funds, because, first, there is no monitoring on this and, second, because the platform for the centralization of calls and control of the funds is not in operation, which obliges us to refer, if we want information, to the IGAE, to the data of the CEO or even to the data of ESADE, which are trying to monitor them. He will share with me that, at least, this is an anomaly and that, of course, there is a lack of information and transparency when we talk about public funds, which require control and public information. With the data we have, we find that, according to IGAE, the actual payments made represent 22% of the total budgeted for 2022, a lower percentage than that of the Government, because this refers to the obligations recognized not implemented, which is about 45.5%. On the other hand, according to ESADE, about 15% of the funds executed have reached the productive fabric, that is, about 4200 million, of 18,000, which were destined for them, a figure still low. So much data, in which anyone can get lost, only reveal the need for an application in which the implementation data are accessible and transparent to society, in order to avoid mistrust and, of course, to make all the necessary adjustments to improve the management of these funds. Nor can responsibility for the delay in execution be transferred to the rest of the administrations in the part that corresponds to the tenders, since they have not participated in their design and have not been able to benefit from all that flexibility, which, for the General Administration of the State in the matter of procurement, allowed that Decree 36/2020, because its processing remains in a drawer. It is true that Decree 6/2022 of March had to be expected; thanks to my group, among other things, it has been extended to all entities that make up the public sector the application of certain specializations envisaged in the field of recruitment. In addition, in view of the changes in costs due to inflation, there are tenders which have already been abandoned, as the AIReF has already warned, and there is concern about those calls which have recently been tendered and which are not raising sufficient interest in the companies, because the contracting company does not have guaranteed the return on the investment. Finally, the deadlines for the implementation of the plan. The timetable negotiated by the Government in Brussels set the implementation of the plan in the 2021-2023 triennium to implement the first 70 billion for grants, an excessively short period and which will hardly be possible if we keep up with the pace of implementation to date. Moreover, they are very tight deadlines for investments that require some projects, because if we want to transform the economy they are essential, yes, large tractor projects, and precisely transformative investments require, by their very nature, more time for reflection, more time for decision-making, as well as multi-sectoral participation, conditions that are difficult to meet within such a short period of time as the Government has marked. And that's what we told him when they started planning the plan, and we'll keep insisting on it. Minister, a reprogramming of this schedule will be required because of the large amount of resources that remain to be processed, but also to facilitate investment in tractor projects, which can drive this paradigm shift. All these issues, Minister, raise doubts about the progress of the plan, its planning and its process, its impact on the economy and its ability to achieve the change of economic model and, ultimately, the transformation of the economy. That is why, despite the fact that the Government is moving over and over again, demonstrating its capacity, it must be the first to plan and present the plan with the economic milestones and reforms required of the European Community, and also by the request for the various tranches of aid, which is true, we must tell you that the great challenge is not only to meet milestones on certain dates, but also to distribute these funds efficiently. In addition, the Administration is not prepared for this, it is somewhat obsolete and in need of more human resources; it has overstretched its management capacity and, in fact, there are already announcements in the press that help is being sought from the Big Fours to address precisely the bureaucratic impasse. All these issues make it necessary and urgent to ensure the management, channelling, implementation of funds and, therefore, to adapt the mechanisms or measures designed so far, involving all governments and levels of government with plausible innovative projects, consistent with regional capacities, because having a technological and innovative basis of its own is the beginning to develop economic policies of the present and also of the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u135	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Sagastizabal, I have listened to you carefully. I can share many of the thoughts that you have made in the rostrum, there are others that I would kill and others that I think have an explanation. We all need to be aware and deepen this ongoing process of improvement, as we all aim to be a more agile, more efficient administration that responds more quickly to citizens' problems. But we have to start on the basis that, first of all, the design of the recovery plan and the making available to the Member States by the European Union, in a unique way during this crisis, of such a large volume of resources is a great, perfect initiative and, of course, marks a way to behave the European Union, which has learned, at least in a very substantial part of the previous financial crisis, not to deal with this new crisis with greater cuts, with less impetus from the public sector regarding the role that it has to play in the economy or with a lack of protection for all citizens, which leads to a detachment and, therefore, to a real separation of life from politics, as happened in the previous financial crisis. That we have in our country a package of transfers that exceeds, with the addition, the 77 billion euros is undoubtedly a magnificent news. It is also fair to recognize the leadership role of the President of the Government in requesting - some laughed; not his group, but others - a Marshall plan or some reconstruction plan of Europe after the consequences so serious, with two digits of GDP falling, which occurred as a result of the pandemic. Secondly, Mrs Sagastizabal, I think it must be recognized that an injection of more than 70 billion for execution in three years on all public machinery is an unprecedented challenge. I am not going to avoid that this means fattening municipalities, autonomous communities and the Government of Spain so that they are ready and able to digest these amounts of resources. But I also want to say that the timetable for implementation was linked to alleviating the fall that, during the period closest to the pandemic situation, European economies would suffer. That is why I can assure you that the timetable for the implementation of the resources which the Spanish Government has tried to negotiate with Europe has not been as eligible. There was clearly an interest in such an injection at this time of the economy to try to reduce the impact that the virus was having on the fall in GDP and, later, now with the addition, the impact that the economic consequences of the war may be having, which, as you say, also complicate the development of the project itself, and the problem that we have had of depleting supply chains and increasing certain commodity prices for investment development. In other words, there are a number of added constraints that are testing the ability of the administrations to deal with all these drawbacks. Without complacency, Mrs Sagastizabal, with a pride that I believe is reasonable, we can all agree that, despite everything, all the administrations are responding in a fairly reasonable way to what is happening on a daily basis. Thirdly, and as a global reflection, I would like to say that, for the design of the plan itself, there has been a change in paradigm, in model, in order to manage these new aid, a model different from the traditional one of the Member States, namely Spain, a country which was clear in receiving funds from the multiannual financial framework. And I am referring to the fact that, to date, the financial framework, also with constraints in terms of territorial cohesion and income levels, raised a volume of resources that directly manage the Autonomous Communities; the Autonomous Communities did the programming and forward it to Brussels. In this sense, we were and are almost mere transmitters of what the communities themselves propose, although then we are managing authority. With regard to the recovery plan, Europe placed as a condition not only a certain mobilization of resources, but a volume of reform of plans and the incorporation of strategic policies that had to be present and approved by Brussels, with a weight each of the programmes: 40% climate change, to set an example or 30% with regard to the digital transition and, now, as the situation resulting from the invasion of Ukraine worsens, the strategic autonomy that these measures can pursue. I say this because the design of the plan is different, as you well said. I think I am well aware of your group's position on this issue, because I have had the opportunity to discuss it with you and also with Mr Esteban. They would have preferred a different way from the original design of this plan, where a number of resources were made available to the autonomous communities on the same premises, which would allow them to make their own design of the development of the plan. I know him, we've heard him and discussed him on many occasions. Therefore, Mrs Sagastizabal, I am no stranger to that question which you raise today and which is present in all the speeches and debates we have on European funds. You continue to miss what you call greater involvement of the autonomous communities in these designs. I would say that it is a different design, because participation is always taking place, although in a different way, because all the resources deriving from the territory are being agreed, voted on, in the sectoral conferences, which are designed precisely to make that distribution. At the time of control of the funds, not of audit control or of control of the management of public money - this is left to the People's Party, which always calls into question that there is good control, as there is, because the general intervention of all administrations exercises that role of control and the own audit that has to be developed with the European funds also exercises that role of control - but of online knowledge, if I may say so, of how this distribution is being produced, that same design makes each department have a bilateral relationship with its counterpart in the territory, in which the rest, which we are general coordinators, we have to make an additional effort of coordination. I have spoken many times with my counterparts in the autonomous communities and, indeed, sometimes they do not have the information of what the councils are deciding at each of the sectoral conferences, as I also do not have that information up to date, more than when the ministries themselves give us transfer of it. That is why I come to say that, indeed, even the coordination mechanism itself suffers from that very design of the funds, with the difficulty of knowing every day and at every moment how and how the projects that were developed are being implemented. If we take all these considerations into account, it seems to me essential to say, first, that the pace of implementation of European funds is reasonable. Would we like him to be still superior? Yeah. Are the appropriations, for example in the year 2022, for more than 90% of those entered in the draft budgets at this time? Yeah. Moreover, the fact that it was budgeted - it may seem normal, but it did not exist, for example, with the multiannual financial framework, it did not form part of the draft budgets - implies that the funds can be made available before what Brussels sends, in the form of an appeal or in the form of an advance, because, as you know, the request for disbursement must be certified - it is an extraordinarily complex process, Mrs Sagastizabal, and I say this because of what they always question the control itself - which actually meets the milestones and objectives of the plan. This is what we have developed and will continue to develop; in fact, 15.5 billion have already moved to the set of sectoral conferences. We have set up the user centre and we have set up the COFFEE, a support and aid tool, which does not replace the management itself of the funds that the autonomous communities have to make, but which allows a traceability of the projects in order to know, above all on the part of the Commission, how this investment of resources is being carried out. Like all computer platforms, it may have its initial start-up difficulties, by autonomous communities and local entities they are being fulfilled within the framework of the rules that we have given ourselves as a formula. The next 22nd is the first Vice-President to appear in this House to explain what the proposed addition will be. We have not yet sent it to Brussels, because the Government is still working on the addendum proposal, which has as its fundamental objective, above all, to provide resources to some of the PERTE which, in our view, do not yet have sufficient funding for the substantial change they intend to make. That day, therefore, we will have the opportunity here in the House to discuss the specific addition, with the loans to be managed. We have as a supporting document - you said - the request that has been made by the Autonomous Communities, without generating false expectations, Mrs Sagastizabal. It's my responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u137	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u138	... to say it in the rostrum - I am finishing - because, indeed, it is necessary to do so. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that we have already requested the third disbursement. It is now up to the Commission to assess whether all those milestones and investments that we had planned have actually been met. Therefore, Your Honor, that will neither speed up nor slow down the actual development of the plan, because what is at stake is that the provisional debt we have committed can also be netted. I keep holding his hand to keep talking, to keep talking. We know that you have a position on the recovery plan, and we have to be able to reconcile, also with the addendum, over the next few weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u139	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u140	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, he has outlined all the design of the plan and its execution. We agree that Europe's response has been very different. You have told us about the challenge of the three-year period to reduce the impact on GDP, but the truth is that it will be difficult to execute that 70 billion in this short space of time. We do not share the design, because we did want greater participation from the regions, as laid down in the European Regulation. But it is also that, even if we cannot do it within that design that you have made, you continually ask us to make and design proposals, and it is very frustrating that we do so because we have no answers to them; we have no expectations. You've been talking to us right now about the addendum. We have made contributions so that our financial framework can be, even with MRR bonds, with a number of important measures, and we have no response. In the end, our expectations are frustrated. Like everyone else, what we want is for this plan to work, because success will be for everyone, also for Euskadi. You know well how important these funds are. We said so with the processing of the General Budgets of the State. Moreover, you know that without European funds it would be virtually impossible to mobilise public investment and that it would be aimed at accelerating future transformations; it would also be impossible for public-private collaboration in future projects which, precisely, means supplementing private financing with public funding. In addition, you know that the high level of indebtedness of public administrations will lead in a few years to budgetary adjustments, so it will be much more complex to address such investments, measures and support with the intensity that requires economic transformation. Therefore, we insist that, in order to receive these loans worth 80 billion that the addition requires, this must be well designed and become an essential complement to these investments in a context of uncertainty and volatility. Hence, all our proposals. The resources we are talking about, as you say, are Europeans and the Member States are partners, yes, but the debt we are all going to pay. For this reason, the voice of the autonomous communities, in this case the voice of Euskadi, in a decentralized state of self-government, must be taken into account at this stage of design, not only in the execution and accountability. Finally, in addition to the fact that the funds involve the allocation of extraordinary resources by Europe, they have been set up as the common road map to address investments in ecological transition, social transformation and digital transformation to address all these challenges. Minister, it is necessary to evaluate all this, not only the critical aspects, but also the opportunity that these funds represent not to err in their materialization, and to address without delay, as I said, those most problematic aspects, because these funds are the best, I would say, the only opportunity, to support strategic investments in the medium and long term and to move forward in the construction of a new economic model. Therefore, it is urgent to land, it is urgent to work collaboratively, truly. The position of the PNV is constructive, you know it, because, as I said, we play the future. If it goes wrong, we will all get hurt, including Euskadi, its institutions, companies and citizens. I end up reading the words of a person with a great trajectory in the field of innovation. He said, there by 2021, and I open quotes: 'The Next Generation funds are going to be like an electrical discharge from a defibrillator that applies to a person who has suffered cardiac arrest. The first download in 2021, the second in 2022 and the third in 2023. But if the heart does not recover its rhythm, in 2024 there will be no more discharges, because the apparatus will be unloaded.' So let us not lose that train and really approach it from cooperation and co-governance. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u141	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. I cannot agree more, Mrs Sagastizabal, that it is indeed a unique opportunity for all countries, for the very project that means Europe and that we must be able to take advantage of it among all. I also think we need to have a comparative element that allows us to see how we are. Despite our ability to improve or the need to continue working permanently in a more effective way, Spain is now well placed with regard to the implementation of the funds. This is an element that all managers who are working hard to make this issue a reality must serve as a stimulus to us. We are the country of the European Union which is asking for disbursements before, which does not mean that it is asking for it, but the European Commission is verifying that the milestones and objectives that had previously been set are being met - that is why they are paying. Many of the milestones are reforms, and you know it, Mrs Sagastizabal, because the degree of legislative initiative that the Executive is getting and that is submitted to this House is, to a large extent, also conditioned by the timetable of those components that we have with Europe. This means that the volume of legislation being dealt with has no comparison - the oldest Members of the House know this with what has been done in previous periods, and the fragmentation of Parliament sometimes even forces us to modulate those commitments we have with Europe, because, of course, the House is sovereign. This means that the rules, as they come out, do not always respond exactly to what Europe expects from the milestones that the Spanish Government has to mark. Despite all that, we have to go on. I put her in place for the day that the vice president is going to discuss the addendum. As you said, you have more than 7.5 billion in added transfers and a part of the 80 billion in loans. If I tell you already, Mrs Sagastizabal, that unlike what happens with transfers, which are, in terms of national accounts - I know you will understand me - neutral, loans are not. This means that they go at the expense of the indebtedness of the country itself and of the territorial administrations itself and that, when that debt capacity becomes non-financial expenditure, it implies deficit. However, when fiscal rules are recovered, Europe demands to be on the path of fiscal consolidation, which we have to agree on, which makes it somewhat difficult to manage the loan in order to convert it into non-financial expenditure. This does not mean that it cannot be done anywhere, but, above all, they are financial instruments that are made available to the private sector so that it can be used at a time of credit difficulty and to accompany the most important investments. The Vice-President will explain this to you more carefully, but as this is more appropriate to her, I want to say that we are already seeing how and how they can be managed within the framework that we all have and that it is not a toast to the sun, but that it is really loans that will enable us to undertake these great investments, strategic for the country, or the great reform projects that we have ahead. I regret that sometimes the request for information causes frustration - I am aware, because you are transferring it to me - or that an expectation is generated that does not correspond to reality, but I do want to say that these documents are the nuclear object for the preparation of the plan by the Government of Spain, although we will improve that communication so that there is no such experience in the territorial entities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u143	Thank you very much. - the EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU Parliamentary Group on the DIGITAL BREACH IN ATTENTION TO CITIZENSHIP BY PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION. [[File number 172/000257]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u144	Urgent inquiry by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group into the digital divide in the public service's attention to citizens. For your defence, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u145	Eskerrik asko, egun on. Thank you, President. Minister, it is a clear fact that digital technology is increasingly present in our lives and there are many areas where it is essential to become familiar with its use, if we do not want to stay out of play. But the problem for many people is not the resistance to catch up - which are certainly the least - but the impossibility of doing so for very different and very different reasons. And this is where the issue of what we call a digital divide lies; a gap that is particularly serious when it affects everyday situations and relationships with the public administration as well. The fact is that the inequalities that were already known before the pandemic, such as those that affect people's scarce economic resources or lack of training, have increased and we have examples, such as the shortage of telecommunications infrastructure in the less populated areas, and along with this, the accelerated-acceleralisation, I would say - digitisation of the financial system, of banking, and also of public administrations. In short, we find that problems of access to basic issues for everyday life are increasing, and this leads to a greater number of vulnerable people. Rights, Minister, have become obligations for citizens, digital obligations. And anticipating what was to come, user organizations have been demanding and demanding urgent decisions from the Bank of Spain and various ministries of this Government. Because it is necessary and obvious that the times between this digital development - to which we will inevitably have to join - must be accompanied by its forced obligation of widespread use throughout the territory. Now perhaps we are seeing it more clearly, mainly in banking and, I would say, paradoxically, in public administration. There is much talk about what is going on in the bank with the removal of bank notes, the collection of money by window, the new commissions or the increase of operations exclusively via online, and certainly all this has increased the already existing digital divide in the most vulnerable sectors of the population, such as older people, rural residents or people with special needs who are seeing restricted access to their own money - that the thing has a crime - and also to the banking system in general. But it's not just in the bank, it's also in the administration, and any kind of paperwork today goes through it telematically yes or yes: ask for unemployment, sick leave, income tax, scholarships. There are a lot of situations and needs, even processing aid for being poor, which is perhaps the most tearing incongruity we can imagine. In addition to all this, what is happening at the same time is that in this Congress, since the pandemic, a great many measures have been taken, a great number of good measures under which we call the social shield, in social protection or in ecological transition, thanks to the huge amount of European funds that have arrived, but the reality is that the vast majority of the population does not even know a very small part of these measures. And I no longer speak only of vulnerable people but of the vast majority of the population, that is, those measures approved by this Congress do not reach the people, and what cannot be done is to discharge responsibility in the people because they do not have it. It is the Administration that must communicate, the one that must ensure that the aid reaches the recipient, it is the Administration that must reach the citizenry, and not the other way around. And what is happening is just the opposite, that it is citizenship that makes enormous efforts, intense efforts and often empty, in order to be able to access everything that the Administration should give it directly, easily and easily. It is true, today the vast majority of the population have digital devices with Internet access, dominate that area, that world and know how to use it. But what about that other large group of the population that is not in this situation? In this profile of the population there are many older people, people with a low socio-economic level who see their accessibility to the public administration - that is, to the public, to everyone - not having tools or skills to manage their demands in a telematic way. This happens practically in all areas of public administration, where what should be offered as a basic premise is an equity in accessibility, regardless of the channel of communication being used. Whether in social security, whether in health care, or when accessing cultural bonds, this equity in accessibility is not happening and it is precisely those who need it most who have the worst access to it. And of course I do know that this deficit is not exclusive - of course but not - of the central administration, it happens also in the autonomous administrations. For example, the European Network for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion estimates that in Euskadi 30,000 people could access GIR in the Basque Autonomous Community and do not, either because of this digital divide or because they are tired of going from window to window, and this accounts for approximately 30% of people at risk of poverty. When the digital divide adds to social and economic exclusion, it deepens the difficulties in accessing such aid. It is a serious problem that needs a solution. There is another issue that is very little discussed and has to do with the instruments used by the Administration for this relationship with citizenship: apps, applications that are driven from the public to relate to that citizenship. Well, the ratings of many of these applications are tremendously negative. There is talk of the lack of digital skills of a large part of the population, but what happens when the design of the applications does not guarantee their understanding or use; what happens when it is not designed thinking about the users. Because it is not, of course, a question of the capacity of those who develop these applications, it is a question of perspective, it is a question of positioning, it is a question of knowing for whom and what we are working for. It is not acceptable that all the digital services or the vast majority of digital services - to be more precise - that the State provides to the citizenry are always much worse and difficult than the apps that develop from private companies, that are easier, more accessible, more intuitive and that somehow give you all the clues not to die in the attempt, while with the applications of the Central Administration it happens that you often give up or die in the attempt, one of the two, because everything is complications for a great majority. What about people? Well, look in the family, among the relatives, for someone who can give you a hand, if you're lucky enough they can give you a hand and draw that impossible yincana. Or if not, the resource that many people no longer know what to do is to seek advice, that is, after payment of a financial amount that they become intermediaries of those people with the Administration. This is happening in more areas, from asking for an appointment before SEPE to being able to register a simple document, making the payroll of the person employed in the household, knowing the regulatory basis in retirement or even making the tax return. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation should take note of this issue, because accessibility of applications should also be an element to be valued and protected. Finally, it focused on another factor of the Administration that should not be forgotten and is that, although much of the citizenry does not have a legal obligation to relate to the Administration through telematic means, in some administrative procedures and in certain administrations this use has been de facto imposed. To impose the telematic relationship on a large part of the citizenry and whether it is due to technical incapacity or economic incapacity, it cannot do so, that, of course, is not to innovate, it is not to link to the new times, it is not to move forward, it is to leave many people behind and this is what needs to be resolved. The use of technologies should be voluntary, it must be accompanied and the obligation of the institutions is to be with citizens and accompany them so that their rights are accessible, because there is and is not another digital divide, and this gap can become an abyss as time goes by. As you see, Minister, the problems to which I refer and which lie in this so-called digital divide are several and complicated. I do not deny that there are difficulties in dealing with them, but we must do so. That is why the interpellation is done to you, although I know it is cross-cutting and affects all government ministries. This is the question: what are they going to do to solve this digital divide or at least mitigate the effects it is having on the population? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u146	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Aizpurua, I believe that the debate that we can hold this morning in this rostrum is timely and necessary, because in the times we live permanently you have to be present on the political agenda, fundamentally, because I believe that my Government is strongly in favour of the incorporation of technology as an element facilitating people's lives, in all aspects of life, in the relationship with the Administration, which is what we are talking about today; in relation to the treatment of health; in relation to the translation of knowledge to schoolchildren, or in relation to household support measures for people in vulnerable situations. That is, in the face of the denial that some have of many other issues, such as climate change or obvious issues, I think it is very important that innovative administrations, which want to face the challenges of the future, really look at the technology from that service that they have to lend to the whole citizenry or from the role that they can play in making us more economically efficient and, therefore, we citizens have more time to develop other activities that are not directly related to our productive capacity. I believe, therefore, that it is a debate of the 21st century, which will continue to develop, because as a sector so dynamic, as it evolves, the political debate itself evolves and the capacity itself to adapt to that better relationship that we can establish with the citizens. However, I am very aware of what you warned in the rostrum and which is the object of the inquiry. We have to be able to facilitate the way, to put carpet on such technological development, without losing sight that, in fact, there are population groups that have more difficulty relating through technology by educational elements. Mrs. Aizpurua, I like to say that usually a three-year-old person with a mobile phone has about me, when I was that age, an intuitive ability to deal with that technology that has nothing to do with other moments and that will go further in that own shaping of the skills that citizens will have. It is evident that the elderly, unfortunately, did not have that opportunity and are faced with a real barrier of management capacity, which is aimed at training, and also, sometimes, with a psychological barrier, in which one can think that its use is so complicated that it will never be able to be incorporated into it. I want to send our elders - I think we all do it in our domestic areas - the feeling of confidence that other challenges we face in life are much more complicated than the very management of that technology. I am clear that the Administration cannot listen deafly to something that has been present in a very singular way - you said this on the occasion of all the mobilization made by the elderly when the proximity banking offices disappear - to the claim of the right that they are granted to actually be able to maintain face-to-face attention in all those environments, regardless of whether they follow their technological development path in the way they require. I also share in this general context that European funds are an essential tool for accelerating all the processes of change that have to be produced in our productive fabric, so that, on the one hand, the relationship between companies and the Administration is much less visible, and on the other, with citizenship in general, because it certainly saves citizens time, so that we do not have - who voluntarily do not want - to move to the public environments to request a document or to deliver a certificate or any other matter, which means not only waste of time but also cost associated with travel and transport. We do not all live in large cities and, therefore, there are people who, in order to be able to do this, have to move miles from their place of residence and, therefore, we have to be very aware that in fact, like everything else in life, we have to use it with that perspective and with that balance. After the pandemic, I think the country has made a giant leap in digitisation. The fact that mobility was restricted during that period has also allowed the Administration and this Parliament itself to have developed systems for the participation of people who do not oblige them to have that presence in that place every day. I therefore agree, Mrs Aizpurua, that we need to strike a reasonable balance on these issues and that under no circumstances can the fact that digital systems are put in place lead to the disappearance or weakening of face-to-face care services. It is a debate that I hold very often - you will find it familiar - for example on the subject of teleworking. He knows that in my additional responsibility as Head of the Public Service we have to promote that in the jobs of the Administration that can be developed in telematic terms this is done and, therefore, voluntarily the public employee can decide that this is his mode of work within the general rules of teamwork, which must always be preserved. But I always say, while transmitting this will, that it is essential that this telework not only guarantees but also increases the presence in the services of care for citizens and that there is no impact, but, if possible, that there be a diversion of resources to the face-to-face environments, so that we can attend more quickly, more personalizedly, to a more specific attention of a 21st century administration. That is why we have approved within the energy efficiency measures plans, where telework was also envisaged, precisely, that the offices for the care and information of citizens have to have a preferential attention to people over 65 and to people who may have digital vulnerability, either because of issues relating to personal conditions of disability or because of their presence in certain environments where we do not yet have completely robust fiber optics or any other information highways that allow us to have a connection in certain areas of shadow 24 hours, 365 days a year. Therefore, we are already incorporating that view that, regardless of whether we need to move forward, we need to ensure that this environment is perfectly protected. I'll give you an example. Social Security has authorized an increase of 1615 additional personnel to provide care in the territory. The Tax Agency has signed a protocol to ensure this preferential attention to older people, because most citizens submit their statements in a telematic way, but it is true that people are required to be given guardianship over this issue and to be resolved with doubts or any other consideration that has to do with it. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation is also working on a project of face-to-face care that aims, in co-design with the elderly, to really participate actively in all their technological development to allow them to use it later and, therefore, tell us how and how it has to be developed. We have also increased telephone service by 060 so that older people can move all the doubts we are commenting on this issue. Similarly, Your Honor, we have developed training materials for the telephone administration. In addition, I would like to point out to you that the Government has activated what it calls the Generation D Pact, which means a large-scale public and private commitment to boost digital skills throughout the country, with particular attention to people over the age of sixty-five, and that it will enable us to raise the current 70% of digital skills that we have established to almost 100 per cent of the population as a whole, at least for basic skills that will enable them to develop. This plan already has 37 billion euros, of which 1000 have already been transferred to the autonomous communities, within this resource package that is also proposed by the Next Generation. In addition, I will tell you that it is not only important for us to seal this part, but also to create new professionals linked to these abilities. You have expressed some of the difficulties that exist in the rostrum. Of course, an app has to be usable and has to have the usability criterion within its configuration, that is, it cannot be something to what we tend to administrations to do, to make a collection of information regarding the goodness of a service, but it has to be a road map of how you have to guide the citizen in order just to be able to book a train ticket or to be able, as you said, to get medical discharge or to ask for unemployment benefit in the case of SEPE. As I was telling you, one of the problems we and the private sector face is the lack of professionals, both computer engineers and professional training places of this type, who have to help us all complete this digital map that we have to promote. Therefore, also within this pact, there is the creation of a volume of 130,000 places of vocational training in the digital field so that these people can go to public employment, as they are currently listed professionals in the labour market and we literally fight, Mrs Aizpurua, for hiring them, as well as for there to be opportunities for young people who want to make digitalisation an opportunity for recruitment and therefore be a possibility for their lives. So the warning that you demanded in the rostrum we take into account, we are trying to make it present in all our digitisation plans and we will continue to make progress in this direction also with the help and support of the political formations of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u148	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u149	Madam Minister, I am grateful that you take into account the size of the situation and the seriousness of the problem, because the problem really is of such a magnitude that, in fact, until the generational relief does accompany digitisation, there will actually be excluded majorities if all the aspects of this digital divide are not taken into account. I'm going to give you a series of data as an example. The report published by Caritas and the FOESSA Foundation on the basis of a survey carried out in 7,000 households throughout the State places almost two million households living in the digital divide on a daily basis, which particularly affects households made up of persons aged sixty-five years and, in addition, individuals living alone. I have spoken before the difficulties of dealing with GIR in the Basque Autonomous Community and the same applies to minimum living income, a benefit, as you know, designed to prevent the situation of poverty and social exclusion. What I wanted was for them to become aware of the reality, because the question is how many people are left out because they cannot access the benefit and if it is not a huge inconsistency that requires connectivity for a benefit aimed at those in a situation of flagrant poverty, too. Is it not an incongruity that a process of processing such as minimum vital income, an already complex process, should be made online, making it even more complicated for people? It also happens, as I said before, in simpler procedures. Indeed, today, and at least for a while, the Administration should ensure, both for the elderly and for those not so old - eye, that the difficulties involved in the relationship with the Administration via telematics I believe are for everyone and that it is not just a matter of age, are large sections of the population to which it affects - or for other non-digital sectors that access is made face-to-face and facilitating. In that regard, welcome are the news that face-to-face assistance will be increased. In the part of this technological perspective of usability that should be taken in designing applications, it is also necessary to make the instruments easier, because the Administration - I say this not only online, but on the day-to-day of the administrations - should cease to apply that raging administrative language that is often maintained and also those demands, for example, of the permanent key or digital DNI, which for many people in need is a wall that makes them give up asking for benefits. I think it is clear that rights must be protected, that a transitional period must be established, so as not to leave anyone behind, between personal care and telematic services. We must have a special look at that generation of a certain age, which was also the generation that worked and fought for the well-being of all of us now and why people had a dignified life. I think we have to take this into account because they are collectives who are powerless in the face of a digitisation that we can't really oppose, but we can ask that no one be left behind, in the gutter, because right now in the gutter a lot of people are staying. I have said this before, the use of telematics means is voluntary, but what is an obligation for the administration is that the institutions be on the citizens' side. Note should be taken of this need for co-existence of personalized care with telematic services. The Administration, the Government, must also oblige basic services, such as banking at present, to such face-to-face attention and to facilitate the procedures that citizenship requires, because if all the rights that we have theoretically are not accessible, they cease to be rights. That's what happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u150	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u151	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Aizpurua, there are some issues that you were moving that the government can only share. Some sometimes get shocked when they hear that, but poverty is certainly a cause of worsening most of the issues that can occur to a person in relation to health, in relation to education, in relation to personal autonomy and also in relation to digitization. Certainly, it is not the same a home where people have access to a wifi or have a computer at their disposal to compete or to cooperate on equal terms with their peers. Therefore, poverty always for a progressive government has to be a cross-cutting line and it has to be addressed in all the political initiatives it sets in motion. I say this because some are shocked when they see that the poor enjoy worse health. It seems to them that this is something that doesn't make much sense, when the evidence shows it. Societies need to make progress in the charters of rights and obligations of citizens with regard to digital matters. I am convinced that we are still at a very early point in citizens' rights to technology and that in the future all this will develop in a much more complete way; as I said, with access to an information highway, to the ability to have basic technological means regardless of whether or not people have a level of income, to have on a voluntary basis and, therefore, alternatively, the ability to relate to public professionals in a telematic way. I think that this is going to open up in the future and, moreover, I think that it must be lived as an opportunity also to rethink the very design of the processes that the administrations are running, which sometimes follow very inertial elements that have a bureaucracy that, of course, have to pursue control, but, without this falling, they have to allow the response times to speed up. I mean, I actually live it as a huge opportunity. In addition, I am in a ministry where technology has been an indispensable support for the Tax Agency, for example, in the fight against fraud. The fact that we can really look for the traceability of the movement of capital or of the movements and transactions that citizens make allows us to come up with a part of the economy that was once opaque for tax purposes. I take note of and incorporated elements that you were referring to in respect of benefits for vulnerable persons that are being implemented by the Administration. Although I would like to say to you that, regardless of whether the minimum income is processed electronically, the Ministry itself has signed an agreement with most of the municipalities that have voluntarily signed it and with other entities so that the process of that management can be mediated by the local corporation or by other bodies with which it was agreed and, therefore, they are allowed access to them, with the citizen in front, in order to be able to do the management. I mean with this we can not always force the person to have to move, because sometimes there is not a capillaryness of the entire General Administration of the State to the last people that exists in our country, but we have to mediate it also with other administrations that do have a presence in each of the municipalities that exist in Spain. Therefore, although in appearance it is all telematic, we do have agreements so that they can be developed in a mediated way with the municipalities. The digital DNI, Your Honor, is designed to ensure that all citizens have the capacity to have an identifier that allows us to enter the door with the Administration. It is true that it has a somewhat more complex handling of the security mechanisms that are associated with the use of this document; we will continue to improve so that it is more conducive. Your Honor, I also want to give a message of clarity and to convey in this sense that the communication of the Administration with citizens via digital is extraordinarily safe, even safer than that produced in other face-to-face environments or when one has to handle physical role when it comes to being able to relate. It is a fact that we know very well, for example, within the health field, where digital history has allowed us greater security in the custody of the patient's data than what was the paper medical record itself. I would therefore like to convey to the citizens that when they are telematically connected they have greater security than when they do with other possibilities. I will end by telling you that we are also maintaining a very fluid communication with the Platform for Seniors and Pensioners, with which we are working all those elements that you counted on and that they are certainly helping us to take account of your needs in the design of all digital policy and, therefore, we are not falling into a new discrimination, into a new gap, in this digital case, as was the reason for the inquiry, aimed at those groups that may be more vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO PAY THE EFFECTS OF THE ENERGY AND CURRENT ECONOMIC CRISIS THAT ARE AFFECTING THE BUSINESSES OF THE CERAMIC SECTOR OF THE CHALLENGE TRADES PROVED BY THE WAR OF URANIA. [[File number 172/000251]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u153	Urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, to alleviate the effects of the current energy and economic crisis that are affecting companies in the ceramic sector of the Castellón regions caused by the war in Ukraine. For your defence, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u154	Thank you very much, President. We do this interpellation, and we do it on behalf of the entire ceramic sector: tile and pavement manufacturers, chips, enamels and colorificas manufacturers, as well as machinery suppliers for the previous subsectors. The request of the trade unions and also of the companies is that the ceramics sector in general have the same aid that other European countries are having - in the case of Italy - in order to be able to compete on equal terms with these competitors born of the Castellón ceramics; in short, of the Spanish ceramics. By expanding only the contexts, ceramics consumes 8% of all industrial gas consumed in Spain - 8% - and the megawatt hour has gone from 15 to 20 euros in the context before the war in Ukraine to the 200 that it is constantly deformating today. Therefore, this increase in the price of gas has an impact on the cost structure of tiles, so that the share of the cost attributable to the cost of energy has increased from 15 to 40%. This means that if before 15% of the cost of a tile was energy, it has now risen to 40%, making this business unworkable for many factories. Gas is a critical factor for being able to produce ceramics, to such an extent that there are already factories that when the gas goes down, and when it goes up, they stop. This is what we've come to. In addition, it is a sector that makes up a real cluster in the regions of Castellón. It should be borne in mind that 95 % of the turnover of this sector is concentrated in the cluster of the regions of Castellón, with a relevance in terms of employment, production and industrial export unquestionable at Valencian, State and international level. This crisis caused by the increase in the cost of gas has resulted in eighty-five cases of temporary employment regulation affecting 9,200 workers, according to data from the General Directorate-General for Labour this month. That is to say, virtually all companies in the sector have had to resort to ERTE in 2022; in addition, seven contract termination files, seven EREs that have resulted in the dismissal of 415 people, have been submitted and to follow this juncture, it is estimated that the total job destruction could be up to 1500 jobs. In short, this situation affects practically all the municipalities where the blueberry cluster is located: Onda, Vila-real, Almassora, l'Alcora, Castelló, Cabanes and Sant Joan de Moró. This creates serious short- and medium-term problems for a key economic sector in these regions. In all the families of Castelló there is someone who is dedicated to this sector, either working directly in the factories, as well as commercial, in the design, in the research, in the construction of machinery, etc., so it is not surprising that the main industrial sector of Castelló is this because it generates more than 14% of the GDP of the Valencian economy, as well as 2.7 of the industrial GDP of the Spanish State. Castelló's world leadership in the ceramic sector, in hand-to-hand struggle with Italy, is the result of an extended ceramic tradition in these regions, which dates back to the 18th century. Over these centuries, this industry has been consolidating not only as an economic refuge for a citrus crop that is too exposed to climate change, but also as an industrial leader in innovation and technological development, both in the development of new materials and in machinery, in design, in energy efficiency, for example, with the development of atomization to save energy, in the commitment to cogeneration for the maximum use of energy consumption or in the creation of ceramic applications for the capture of CO2, or the drive to digital printing technology. In the area of innovation, the sector is working hard and side by side with the Valencian Government on new energy alternatives to overcome this dependence on gas in the long term and, in this regard, specific funding lines have been included in the forthcoming budgets proposed by the Commitments. The current situation of energy prices, together with the support that the Italian industry does have, puts this Castilian industry at risk of survival by gradually gaining the Italian ceramic sector higher market shares due to the better position of prices and supply capacity. The Castilian ceramic industry has already reduced its production by 14.5% over the past year, according to the industrial production index of the Valencian Institute of Statistics, which puts the thousands of jobs it generates in an even more risky situation. In view of this situation, the Valencian Government has taken measures and, to this end, has opened up lines of credit of up to 50 million for the sector and, in addition, have been incorporated into regulations, such as the Climate Change Act, deductions linked to energy efficiency measures such as those carried out by the ceramic sector. However, there is still a need for the Government of Spain to engage actively and co-governance in order to address the adverse effects of rising energy prices in an essential sector such as the ceramics sector, and so far it is not; in fact, the sector complains that its attempts to interact with government representatives have been slowly or directly addressed to people on its teams without the capacity to make relevant commitments, and requests for concrete palliative measures have been rejected without offering an alternative. When companies and trade unions unanimously demanded from the Government that the ERTS in the sector could take over the REDD mechanism or another similar mechanism to reduce costs of the former and to prevent workers from consuming benefit time, they received as a response that their situation is not exactly in line with the REDD mechanism, without receiving in return any alternative proposals that would accommodate these demands, when, on the other hand, in other European countries with the deployment of ceramic companies with the same technology and therefore intensive in the consumption of gas, measures have been adopted that are proving effective for the maintenance of production and, therefore, for the preservation of jobs. In the Italian case, the measure with the greatest impact has been to establish a favourable tax credit on the basis of the increase in invoicing in the supply of natural gas, so that tax reductions, social security contributions and company taxes are established in subsequent monthly instalments of up to 40 % of the increase in the cost of the gas invoice. It is estimated that, by this measure, companies in the Italian ceramic sector will cease to pay up to 1 billion in taxes, in contrast to the aid, in our view, small, rachitic, foreseen for the Spanish ceramic sector in Royal Decree 6/2022, which amounted to total aid of only EUR 25 million, which served to cover only 1.2 % of the cost incurred by companies in that sector to date. In short, in an international market in which the business figures of Italy and Spain are very pairs, the 975 million euros more in the hands of Italian companies can be a decisive turning point in their favor as it can enable them to maintain the production of most of their companies and conquer markets in which so far Valencian companies were predominant because they were unable to maintain Valencian companies' production levels and their supply commitments. The fall of the Valencian ceramic sector could be a debacle for the Valencian economy, and more specifically for that of Castelló, of absolutely incalculable dimensions. One out of every two jobs in the Castellón industry and one out of every three jobs in the provincial total are currently in the ceramic sector. Finally, there is concern that some companies in the sector may be permanently relocated. There have already been, or are already, plans to relocate some company, basically enamels, which is fraught with the potential for job recovery in the event of this crisis being overcome. [[The lady]] That is why, Minister, we ask you to meet the demands of a competitive sector that generates jobs, a sector that is leading exports to Spain and is now going through quite dramatic days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u156	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Baldoví, for your inquiry, because it allows me once again to express the Government's commitment to protecting ceramic companies in the Castelló region and, in general, all industrial companies from the impact of the energy crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. In just two and a half years, ladies and gentlemen, we have had to deal with situations that have no precedent in recent history: a pandemic that has seriously affected many economic sectors and, now, a war on the doorstep of Europe, which is generating an escalation of energy prices and raw materials that have never been seen with negative effects on businesses and families. As you know, during the pandemic we deployed an ambitious safety net to protect companies through the ERTE, the ICO's lines of endorsement or the direct aid which, in the case of the Valencian Community, Mr Baldoví, reached EUR 647 million. But we also made it easier for companies, such as those in the ceramics sector, to continue to export and maintain their activity in the international markets, which certainly helped them to have a lower impact on the pandemic. The measures taken in these hard months that we had to face were effective in protecting employment, income and our productive fabric, and have enabled us to achieve historical levels of employment in our country and to have a robust growth in our economy, which, according to our forecasts, will grow above 4% this year. However, the war in Ukraine and its consequences, such as the escalating energy prices of raw materials, are affecting our companies, especially industry, in the most intensive sectors of energy consumption, such as the ceramic sector. Just as we did during the pandemic, we are deploying effective measures to contain price escalation and strengthen protection for families and businesses most affected. The government has been working intensively at national and international level for more than a year and a half with solid and solvent proposals to contain the rise in energy prices, and I would like to highlight some of the measures that are in force: the suspension throughout 2022 of the value of electricity production tax, as you know, a tax that charges 7% of the revenue generated by the sale of electricity on the wholesale market and which, therefore, reflected in the price of electricity and the final bill - as I say, is suspended throughout the year -; the reduction of the excise duty on electricity from 5,1 % to 0,5 % until 31 December this year; also the reduction of VAT on gas and light, from 21 % to 5 %; the reduction of 80 % of electricity tolls throughout the year to ensure the competitiveness of our electro-intensive industry; the Iberian mechanism has been incorporated to cogeneration plants, thus benefiting the industrial sectors such as ceramics; we have extended the 80 % of electricity tolls throughout the year to 31 December for the protection of the electricity-intensive industry's competitiveness. In short, Mr Baldoví, since the beginning of the escalation of energy prices we have adopted numerous regulatory, fiscal and economic measures that have made it possible to protect companies, especially the most energy intensive ones, such as the ceramic sector. Of all the measures I have mentioned, Your Honor, you have only referred to one, direct aid. I tell you again that 110 companies worth EUR 28 million have benefited in the Valencian Community, and I say this because you have supported all the measures I have just reported. I therefore believe that it is not only necessary to compare what other European countries are doing - then I will refer to it - but also, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the effort that we have all made, the Government bringing these measures to this House and also with the support, as I say, of your lordship, must be valued. I share, Mr Baldoví, the concern you have about the situation of the ceramic cluster, which, as you have said, is a very important sector from the point of view of the generation of employment and economic activity throughout the region of Castelló. Since I came to the government as Minister of Industry, I have - you know - maintained a high level of dialogue with all the associations representing the ceramic cluster. I have had the opportunity to visit many industrial plants in the region and, therefore, know first-hand what are the strengths - some of them have pointed out -: their capacity for innovation, their extraordinary competitiveness in international markets and their export capacity. But I have also participated actively in promotional activities with the associations, both at the Cevisama fair, which, as you know, is held every year in Valencia - again in the year 2023 we will have the opportunity to highlight what are the elements of this important ceramic cluster in Spain - as well as outside Spain. It was the first time that a minister of industry accompanied the ceramic sector in the promotion at the Coverings fair, which, as you know, is one of the most important that is done in the United States and in which I had, as I say, the opportunity to accompany them to promote the strengths that our sector has. I say all this because we continue, as I say, with a very direct dialogue with the sector since the escalation of energy prices began. We have held numerous working meetings at the highest level. In fact, a few weeks ago they were also welcomed by the President of the Government. Therefore, the statement that he made that they did not have the level of dialogue enough I believe does not correspond to reality, not only, I insist, in the meeting with the President, but in constant meetings both with me and with the third Vice-President. In fact, the last was a few days ago, and in it the associations participated in the analysis of the results of the Energy Security Plan, which, as you know, we approved in September. Therefore, this dialogue has led us to a degree of awareness of their concerns and, above all, to a sensitivity that the Government has to the demands of the ceramic sector, which we are moving, as I say, to the action of the Government. He announced that before the end of the year we will incorporate new measures to protect the ceramics sector from rising energy prices. In fact, we are working with them on the revision of their proposals and on the alignment of their proposals with this new support that we are going to do to the ceramic sector, to all the sectors affected by price increases and also to families, and I hope that this third important package of support for families and companies that we will bring to this Congress in the coming weeks will count, as the previous two have done, with majority support from the House, because it is measures, I insist, to protect families and businesses. Together with this new package that we are going to adopt before the end of the year to protect the ceramics sector, I would also like to announce that we are going to approve in that same Council of Ministers the Industrial Decarbonisation PART, which, as you know, is a highly demanded instrument by the manufacturing industry, the ceramics sector itself, which is going to allow aid to improve energy efficiency, the decarbonisation of its industrial processes, and which, as I say, the sector is certainly going to welcome very satisfactorily, because this will help to reduce energy consumption, to opt for cheaper renewable energy sources, and this will also improve its competitiveness. In short, from the government we are working intensively at national and European level with solid and solvent proposals that undoubtedly respond to the challenges we face in this area of rising energy prices. We have been very proactive in the European institutions, and now that the energy crisis continues to grow as a result of Putin's blackmail, Spain will continue to lead, will continue to provide solutions actively, constructively and always based on dialogue. Putin, as you know, is using gas as a weapon of war, and to this blackmail Europe has to respond together, as we did in the pandemic, and we have to activate all the mechanisms at our disposal to protect families and businesses. We are confident that agreement can be reached at European level as soon as possible with the utmost consensus in order to mitigate the high energy costs that companies and families are facing. Yesterday a new Council of Energy Ministers was held, this week there is a European Council, and again the Spanish position will be very clear. I believe that, in addition to the measures we are taking at national level, the European response has to be a strong response. Therefore, our proposals in this area that we are defending are to put a stop to the price of gas and also the centralized purchase of gas in order to be able to opt for better prices, mechanisms, as I say, very similar to the governance that we develop to propose solutions to the pandemic. From the government we will continue to take measures of a temporary and extraordinary nature to curb price escalation, but also, ladies and gentlemen, we are pushing for a transformation agenda, structural measures to promote self-consumption, the promotion of the integration of new renewable technologies to reduce prices, while also reducing dependence on energy fuels, also increasing our energy security and, ultimately, our capacity to self-supply in accordance with the REPowerEU plan. We will also continue to bet on the modernization of our industry, and this new decarbonisation PERTE is another step towards improving the efficiency of our industry's production processes. This will undoubtedly lead to improvements in competitiveness, betting on the dual green and digital transition. We have the instruments, the PERTE, that are attracting important investments also in their autonomous community, in Valencia, with the development of a mega factory that the Volkswagen group is going to make in the city of Sagunto. It is certainly a context of uncertainty, that what is needed are solutions, solutions - as I said - from the point of view of measures of a cyclical and extraordinary nature, but also solutions from the structural point of view. Recovery plans, the LOSS, are a major public and private investor effort, and also contribute to the modernization of our industry and to a competitive industry. I would like to end with a message of commitment from the Government to the ceramics sector and also with a message of union. All, companies, workers and public administrations, we have to work to get the best solutions and guarantee a promising future, Your Honor, for a sector that is important in the Castellón region, but that is also key in our industrial policy. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u158	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I'll take the end of your speech. You have stated in the last twenty seconds of your speech that you were going to have a commitment to the ceramic industry. The Valencians say, and more in Christmas time: amb moneys, torons, that is, with money, with resources, turrones. The sector needs help. If I'm doing this, it's because the sector is going through a dramatic situation. I've said it before, in all the families of Castellón Someone is directly or indirectly involved with the ceramics industry. Therefore, their survival, their survival, their ability to compete in the markets is absolutely essential for the Castellón economy, for the Valencian economy and also for the Spanish economy. You know we've been reliable partners. Whenever aid has been brought here, we have all voted in favour of it and we will continue to vote in favour of it all. Anything that involves aid measures for the industrial sectors or for people will always be voted for, even if it seems to us that they are insufficient, that they are short. What I want to tell you is that a competitor in our industry is giving aid. We're competing with a hand tied behind our backs. We need to have both hands free in order to compete on an equal footing. If the aid amounts to 1 billion in the Italian case and in our case is much lower, this means that they are approximately 900 million more competitive than our industry. That's why we're asking for measures. You have said that you will present measures in the next few days or weeks. I would ask that it be sooner than later and that these measures be really so that our companies can compete, so that we do not continue to lose markets, because we cannot produce, because the cost of gas prevents us from keeping the factories open. In that sense, we will be looking forward to it. You tell me that you have met, I would like that dialogue to be fluid, to be heard, but also that the measures would be efficient to help this sector. We have met with trade unions, employers and the European Commission's Director-General for State Aid to Enterprise Competitiveness, Ben Smulders, in Brussels, and he has told us that this aid which is being given in the Italian case can also be granted in the Spanish case, so it is viable. We therefore ask you to speed up the process so that the sector does not gradually weaken, either through tax aid, as in the case of Italy, or RED mechanisms, which we already know do not fit in, but we can enable them. And we already know that this government has the facility to enable last-minute amendments in days or hours. Therefore, what we ask of you is speed, speed and waist in order to safeguard this company. The corporal. You and I will soon change the stage, you as a candidate for the Mayor of Madrid, I as a candidate for the Presidency of the Valencian Generalitat. I wish when we both left here, we had our homework done. And I allow myself to take advantage of the last thirty seconds to move a demand that made me a very Valencian sector. When you visited the Ciutat Fallera, where the failed artisans build the monuments, you promised them help that they are still waiting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u160	Thank you very much. I have already said in my previous speech that we share the concern, but, as I have also pointed out, we are a government that has responded to a great many of the demands of the various sectors, in this case the ceramic sector, and I have reported on many of the measures we have taken. You made a comparison with what other countries do and reminded me when we were deploying the various protection measures to families and businesses during the pandemic. Then we analyze and see the announcements made by other countries. I remember very well the Italian case, with the announcement of a bonus to facilitate travel, a bonus, Your Honor, which was never developed because, given the lack of mobility, it was impossible for the Italian Government to launch it. I say this because we are a government that analyses the proposals very well, because we cannot afford to announce something that we cannot then do. If something characterizes the action of the Government, it is the facts; what we say we do or at least try to do so, and we always want to have the majority of this House. [[Applauds]] It is important to do this exercise of rigour because, when you analyze the exit from the crisis, you see that it has been very asymmetrical. In Spain - I have given the data - we have managed to leave behind a very harsh pandemic, which has a serious impact on many of our economic sectors, in particular in the tourism sector, which is very important in their community, in the Valencian Community and, despite that, today we enjoy maximum levels of employment, very significant reductions in our unemployment rate, we enjoy robust economic growth and also a capacity that we are deploying from Spain to respond to new challenges, such as the war and the increase in energy prices. You have also talked about the failed teachers, to whom, in fact, I made a very interesting visit for a very nice project that I hope can be developed. We have put resources in place so that from the city council they can undertake this project and I hope that they can be channeled, because, in fact, they complement not only the industrial artisan part, that also from the Ministry of Industry we are supporting - in fact, this same week we give the Fundesartea awards the promotion and visibility of the Spanish craftsmanship - but it implies the support to a tourist product in a privileged environment in order to be able to have besides the Fallero Museum, which I had occasion to visit, a new enclave to attract tourism to the city of Valencia. And speaking of the ceramics sector, as I say, the government's commitment is clear. We have been taking action and, as I have pointed out, before the end of the year we will put the ceramic sector back on the agenda, with protective measures that I am sure will be very well received because the level of dialogue is very good. We are working on the design of these measures, always with the responsibility to make them effective. I believe that in this the Government is very responsible from the point of view of the development of all our instruments, as we have seen today, for example, with the CPI figure: 6.8; a figure which, for the fourth consecutive month, represents significant reductions, and which clearly shows the effectiveness of the measures we are taking. Therefore, commitment and determination. Also - and with this I conclude - I think it is very important that we work together. In such an uncertain context, the unity that all political forces represent, the support from the point of view of civil society, employers and workers and the whole of the administrations, we would be working better within that framework. The action of the Government will certainly have clear results - I am convinced - also in the ceramics sector. I share your concern, because your concern is mine. For us it is a key industry, an exporting industry and an industry that, in addition, has been able to emerge reinforced from another crisis, the real estate crisis where, Your Honor, you can count the few, if not zero, measures that the previous government, the People's Party government, set in motion. Therefore, sometimes it is good to make this comparison. It was a sector very affected by the real estate crisis, it had to reinvent itself and it did so by innovating, thinking about all the workers and their protection, and also developing what today is a very consolidated brand that, of course, this minister and this government not only want to protect, but also want to promote and modernise. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-14-CD221214.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was twelve and forty-five minutes from noon.
