ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Please take your seats. We continue with the appearance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. The following requests for attendance are discussed together: Appearance, at its own request, of the President of the Government Before the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, to report on the conclusions of the European Council held on 24 and 25 March 2022, the NATO Summit and relations with Morocco. Appearance of the President of the Government to the plenary of the House, requested by Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo and 83 other deputies, to report on the facts in relation to a letter sent by the President of the Government to the King of Morocco, in which the Spanish position on the contentious issue of Western Sahara is changed. Appearance of the President of the Government to the plenary of the House, requested by the parliamentary groups Republican, Plural, Euskal Herria Bildu and Vasco, to report on the change of position regarding Western Sahara. [[EAJ-PNV]] Appearance of the President of the Government to the plenary of the House, requested by the parliamentary groups Citizens and Mixed, to explain the reasons and consequences of the shift in the Spanish position regarding the process of decolonization of Western Sahara. To support all appearances, the President of the Government has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. As you have indicated, I appear at my own request to inform the NATO Summit Chamber, held last Thursday, 24 March, in Brussels; the European Council, held that same Thursday and Friday, 25 March, also in Brussels; the plan to shock the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which was approved yesterday by the Council of Ministers, and also the new stage opened between Spain and Morocco. I therefore ask your ladies and gentlemen for some benevolence and also anticipated my apologies if I am a little long in my speech, but, of course, we are talking about many issues that need concreteness and detail on my part. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, just two years ago, in March 2020, Spain, together with the rest of the world, faced an unknown virus. All governments, as well as European governments, have adopted difficult measures, but I believe they are necessary, to defend public health and safeguard the lives of our fellow citizens. Words that have never been uttered or unspoken, such as, for example, confinement, descalation, strategic autonomy, vaccine against KOVID, variants of the virus, ERTE, ICO credits, European funds, have become part of our concerns and also of our hopes. Today, when we see that great powers such as China take very harsh measures of confinement over millions of citizens, it takes even more value, and I would say that it also makes more sense, the hard path we have gone through over the past two years: the path of justice, the path of determination and the path of unity. Ladies and gentlemen, do not forget the main lesson of this health, economic and social emergency, which still leaves us dead and dead. The lesson that by itself, ladies and gentlemen, people are not going anywhere and that only from unity, from the collective effort and with a strong welfare state, which guarantees social justice and also territorial justice, Europe and Spain will come forward; a welfare state with a strong public health, which guarantees universal access to the vaccine and does not provide it, as is the case in other parts of the world, depending on the size of the citizen's pocket; a dynamic welfare state, which is committed to innovation and also to science, which brought us protection thanks to the discovery of the vaccine in record time; a solidarity welfare state, which guarantees the education of our children even in stages of confinement by telematic means; a democratic state, with forces and bodies of State security and with armed forces that protect us from natural disasters such as the Filomena storm, as devastating fires that we have seen throughout last year in the province of Ávila also in Malaga, or the eruption of a volcano on the island of La Palma. [[Rumors]] We should not forget this, ladies and gentlemen, because only united and thanks to the collective effort will we respond to the enormous challenges facing humanity and move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, everything I have told you: pandemic, volcano, fires, snowstorms and even a few days ago, even a sub-Saharan sandstorm, have happened in the last two years... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u3	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u4	I'm describing, ladies and gentlemen. When I get into the ratings, I don't know what you guys are gonna do. [[Applauds]] And now, in addition to all this, ladies and gentlemen, the unimaginable since the Second World War, that is, a war on European soil. [[The rumors continue.- Mr. López Álvarez: A little respect!-Pause]] And the question to be asked is relevant, because it is the question that our compatriots are asking: what else has to happen in order for us to respond together? What else has to happen to put aside the grudges, sectarianisms and add strength? [[Applauds]] I am already telling you that this and not another is the policy that the Spanish Government is going to deploy, which we have been deploying since the beginning of the legislature, the policy of determination, the policy of social justice and the policy of unity where possible. We will act with justice, we will act with determination and always in search of greater unity. We should not forget the lessons of the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, lessons that are equally valid in responding to the Putin war in Ukraine, because precisely now the world was leaving behind a pandemic, or at least the developed world, and in particular Europe and Spain, entering a period of economic recovery and also of transformation and modernization of our productive fabric thanks to European funds, a recovery that in the case of our country is perfectly summed up in two figures: 20 million occupied and a growth in the year 2021 of more than 5% of GDP. Spain today, ladies and gentlemen, grows, creates employment, and our obligation, that of the Government, but also that of its lords, that of the Legislative Power, is to protect that growth and the creation of employment, in the face of the impact of the Putin war in Ukraine. I say all this, ladies and gentlemen, because today we have seen the figure of inflation, which is a bad figure affecting our economy, our society, in particular the most vulnerable groups. By 73% the rise in prices is explained by the open price of energy and also of unprocessed food, and all this exacerbated by the war in Ukraine. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced from the Government that the national response plan and, above all, the recent agreement reached in Brussels to put a reference price on gas and thereby avoid its translation into the price of electricity, as you have heard me say during all these months, will allow us in the coming times to bend the curve and stabilize the evolution of the cost of living. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation, a duty, to respond to war by protecting Ukraine, stopping Putin's feet and shielding the well-being of our societies on a global scale, at European level and, without a doubt, also at national level. That is my commitment and is the commitment of the Government of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is the same government that faced the global pandemic, which reached an agreement, for many unimaginable until it came to it, with the recovery funds; which boosted the vaccination strategy in Spain, being a benchmark in the rest of Europe; the same government that achieved the Iberian energy exception a few days ago in the European Council; the same government that, with success and also with errors, approved the minimum living income; the one that put in place the ICOs, the ERTEs, the social shield, the extraordinary benefits for self-employed people; the one that raised the interprofessional minimum wage, the re-evaluation of pensions, the labour reform agreed between the social partners to save lives, jobs and businesses; the same government that also faced the crisis in Afghanistan, which assumed the disaster of the volcano of La Palma with the same cooperation and coordination between administrations and companies, regardless of the color and political sign of the administrations. [[applause]] With our successes, ladies and gentlemen, and with our mistakes, in such a difficult context, filled with so much uncertainty for European and Spanish citizens. What we are doing is managing the crisis from the justice, unity and determination to which it previously referred. We are that same government. And if we have something clear that we are part of this coalition government - the first in our country's democratic history - it is that we have experience in crisis management and that war, like the pandemic, is a painful crisis, ladies and gentlemen, and costly for everyone, for everyone, especially for the most vulnerable. Therefore, the questions how to respond to a war and how to respond to a pandemic. We have already decided in the pandemic and are now reaffirming ourselves with war: we have decided to respond with justice, with determination and with the greatest possible unity. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been written, a lot has been debated, a lot is unfortunately being seen through the media of this terrible war in Putin on European soil: a throng of death, destruction, death, and injury to millions of refugees. I was very drawn to the attention of the United Nations a few days ago, a very short time ago. He said that in a war like that of Syria, which lasted two years, there were a million refugees. In Ukraine, in just over 30 days, there are more than four million refugees and six million internally displaced persons. That is the magnitude of the disaster that Putin has caused: a country devastated by indiscriminate bombings against the civilian population. All this does not fail to reveal the cruel result of a behavior that I would judge as anti-political - no doubt it is - of an expansionist and imperialist anxiety on the part of Putin, of a way of making totalitarian and inhuman politics. All that, ladies and gentlemen, all that, but I think something else. Let us not be mistaken, let us not be deceived and let us look at the reality of the challenge that Putin is taking to Europe. Putin's attack on Ukraine is Putin's attack on Europe, it is the desperate attempt to end or at least to weaken as much as possible a political project based on democracy, respect for human rights, safeguarding national law and international law as well as a society based on social justice. If democracy is consolidated in Ukraine, Putin will think, why can't tomorrow take place in Russia? Putin, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, attacks Europe because Putin fears Europe. All this leads me to share with all of you, and also with the whole of Spanish citizenship, two reflections. The first is that Putin's war takes place on a scene of pain and death 3000 kilometers away from Spain. There may legitimately be citizens in our country who think that, in geographical terms, that is far from it. It is a long way off, but its impact is, first of all, on our consciences and also on the European and Spanish economy, as we are seeing in the face of rising prices. This war has costs, without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen; we are already paying them in the form of a higher cost of living-or of living, in the case of the Ukrainians - but doing nothing, looking elsewhere, allowing Putin to crush Ukraine and meet its vile objectives would be the end of Europe. The cost we pay today is expensive - it is, ladies and gentlemen - but it would be even greater if we didn't stop Putin's feet. It is Europe that is at stake, its present and its future, our present and the future of our children. The second reflection is as follows. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Spain joined the European Union in the 1980s. Then I was about fifteen years old. As a Spanishman, I would like to thank all the governments with different political signs that made it possible for us to join the European Union and for Spain's membership of the European Union. [[Applauds]] And I want to name them all. I thank Felipe González, José María Aznar, José Luis RodríguezZapatero and Mariano Rajoy. Thank you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!- Rumors-Mr Cerdán León claps his cheek with his hand, addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Thank you; thank you because, after two years of pandemic and now a war, where the foundations of our democracy are being attacked, we have reason to be proud of being European, and not for being born at a specific geographical point in Europe, or by any feature of our physiognomy, or by any other accident of nature. We are proud to be European because we have built the most advanced civic community in history, which has taken the humanist principles further, which is based on the values of freedom and justice. That and not another, ladies and gentlemen, is the European patriotism that you have heard me talk about all these days since the invasion of Putin; a patriotism that is based on principles and values with a universal vocation; a European patriotism that is deployed through the forceful response, and also solidarity, to challenges as colossal as a pandemic or an invasion and a war on European soil. So, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of these two reflections is unity; unity. If it is not now, at this very moment, with a pandemic and with a war in Europe, when our health is attacked by a virus and our way of living with a tyrant, the question that we would have to ask ourselves - and which is legitimately raised by the Spanish citizen - is: when, then, will we move, also in this House, a message of strong unity in the face of the consequences of the war? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, unity in Spain, unity in Europe and also unity in our transatlantic link, because this year, as you all know, is the 40th anniversary of our accession to the Atlantic Alliance. Next June, a NATO summit will be held that is very important for NATO's history and also for our country, which will define the new NATO strategy until 2030. You can see that even this war in Putin, there were judicious analyses of think tanks predicting the end of NATO; even non-minor political leaders of the European Union came to talk about the brain death of NATO. Well, I believe that the war in Putin has reminded us of the need for this alliance between States to defend and safeguard peace on our borders. Once again - let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen - the lesson that together we are stronger, that united we are more sure, that united we guarantee peace on our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not fall into that trap. Putin knows that Russia was never threatened by an invasion or a war conflict by NATO, nor by Ukraine; he is fully aware of this. What he has done has been to use Ukraine's legitimate demand - which is a free, sovereign people - to enter NATO and also to belong to the European Union to attack and materialise its imperialist aspirations. And in addition, with it, cut off all will on the part of the Ukrainian people to consolidate a democracy outside the Russian orbit. He already did, by the way, years ago with the Maidan revolution. In case there is any doubt on this issue, I would like to recall the statements that all NATO members have made over the course of this long month since the beginning of the invasion. What has been done by all, including by the Secretary-General of NATO, has been to reject the sending of troops to Ukrainian soil, to reject the closure of Ukraine's airspace, as called for by President Zelensky, but which would obviously lead us all to a larger-scale conflict and to warn that NATO alone - I repeat, alone - would respond exclusively to an attack on one of its member countries. Ladies and gentlemen, no one wants this war. No one wants her except one person. The Ukrainians do not want it, the Europeans do not want it, the allies of the Atlantic Alliance do not want it, and I am convinced that if they asked the Russian people precisely, they would not want this war either. Now, both Europe and the Atlantic Alliance will support a people who defend themselves from a brutal invasion that seeks only the occupation and destruction of Ukraine, and we do it at European level, we do it at transatlantic level and we do it at bilateral level. Viewed in perspective, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to many of you in your speeches, and also much of the debate that has taken place over the last few weeks in the media, it is superfluous, if I may say so, any distinction between defensive and offensive weapons, because, in the face of any aggression, all weapons are defensive. Spain supplies the resistance and the Ukrainian military with weapons for their self-defence because they are being attacked. In addition to military support, it is essential, as you know, to respond to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, at least since World War II. As I said before, in just four weeks - I insist, in just four weeks - almost four million Ukrainian refugees have left their country and the United Nations estimates that there are about six and a half million internally displaced human beings waiting to see what the future of the war conflict is in their country. Precisely at the NATO summit held in Brussels on 24 March, the urgent task of acting in solidarity and articulating joint plans to respond to this humanitarian crisis is what has become apparent. In this regard, I would like to say that Spain has approved, as you know, a humanitarian aid package of EUR 31 million for Ukraine and also for neighbouring countries that have been receiving this massive flow of refugees, the largest, I insist, since the Second World War. I also have a strong will for our country to provide an exemplary response in this regard, as we also did to the evacuation of refugees and United Nations and international organizations from Afghanistan. This is a moral imperative; the moment demands our solidarity and Spain will again set an example. [[Applauds]] In the face of the invasion of Putin, the Atlantic Alliance has always had clear support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, in accordance with internationally recognized borders, and we have also supported all efforts to strengthen neighbouring nations that are suffering the effects of the interference and threat of Putin, such as Moldova, Georgia and also the Western Balkans, in particular Bosnia and Herzegovina. In short, countries that are receiving a great many refugees in proportion to their population. That support must also go hand in hand with the unequivocal condemnation of Putin and his war, as it has, by the way, happened in a Newborn vote in the United Nations General Assembly and also with the request of more than forty countries to the International Criminal Court to investigate alleged war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide by the troupers in Ukraine. Spain is, of course, among the applicant countries. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many things in this area that Putin has also reminded us, especially the Europeans, how important it is to defend peace. If the European border is also the Spanish border and, therefore, the border of Poland and the Baltic countries is also the Spanish border, we must all be responsible, united and reinforce those borders when they are in danger, as is the case here. Because deterrence is fundamental. For this reason, NATO has activated its plans, strengthened the eastern flank and launched numerous units under NATO direct command. Within this framework, it has been decided to establish four new tactical groups in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia. All the measures being taken are preventive, proportionate to the challenge we face, prudent, to ensure the security of the allies with a three hundred and sixty-degree approach. We believe that the reinforcement carried out so far on the eastern flank is the right one and we support the studies to define the future position. We are at a moment, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental, transcendental in our history. I do not want to be more dramatic than what we are seeing in the media, but we are facing a much more dangerous strategic reality than we have had so far, and to that end we must also adapt NATO's strategy over the coming years. And that is precisely what we are going to do, all united, at the Madrid Summit, where the new strategic concept for NATO will be collected until 2030. There is unanimity in many things, ladies and gentlemen, but above all in perceiving that the summit in Spain will be transcendental to the history of the Alliance, will mark the future of the organisation and will therefore define the security and protection of our countries. The Madrid Summit will provide an opportunity to significantly strengthen deterrence in the medium and long term, developing and increasing the full range of forces and capabilities available to ensure credible deterrence and defence. These developments must be flexible enough to adapt to the evolution of the strategic environment in the coming years. We will have to build a collective defence based on a thorough prior analysis that guarantees its realism and also its financial sustainability, taking into account all the threats, no doubt also the terrorist. Spain agrees, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen deterrence on the eastern flank, I have heard it on other occasions, but it also believes that we must incorporate the challenges and challenges from the south, and more specifically from a region which is very important for stability, especially in the area of combating terrorism, migration, such as the Sahel, whose fragility and instability are a source of logical concern for European security. Steps are also being taken to increase the resilience of our societies, for example by strengthening our capacity to respond to misinformation and improve our cybersecurity capabilities - to which I will then refer - through the encouragement of mutual support in the event of attacks and the possibility of punishing those responsible. Other measures are aimed at improving preparedness to counter chemical threats, which are currently being discussed by the allies in relation to the threat that Russia is clearly posing; to counter chemical, biological, radiological and, of course, nuclear threats. Ladies and gentlemen, all this brings me to a reflection, and it is that the defence of peace requires adequate resources. This war has mobilized all the allies and there are many countries - I would say not the majority, but the whole of the European countries - that have already announced significant efforts to improve their defence, and now it is peremptory to accelerate those efforts. Our commitment as a Member State of the European Union and also of NATO is that of a State that is reliable, that with responsibility and solidarity in ensuring the security of all our borders, not only the next, but also the distant, responds to the challenges it faces and makes it impossible, ladies and gentlemen, something I have said on previous occasions and is to increase our defence budget. It is our duty to defend that 2% of our gross domestic product over the next few years. I am not talking about a sudden increase, because the ministry itself would not have the capacity to absorb all this enormous resource of financial capabilities, but rather progressive. I am simply stating evidence, ladies and gentlemen, and we must draw conclusions from this war. Our security is threatened and that is why it has to be strengthened, and all this has a cost, which, of course, we will accompany with our national priorities, which, as you know, have a strong social accent. However, we will continue to invest in our capabilities above the commitment made at the NATO Wales Summit of 20% of the total budget, which will allow us to push something very important, which is the defence industry. We will also maintain our high commitment to the operations and missions of the Alliance. There is no militaristic velocity, ladies and gentlemen, for this purpose. Conversely, we only want to defend our democracy and our peace against the enemies of European peace and security. In short, Putin's war represents a fundamental challenge to our principles and values that have brought that, security and prosperity to the continent for many decades. However, Putin's decision to attack Ukraine is a strategic mistake with serious consequences not only for Ukraine or European countries, but for the entire international community. Here are the recent OECD data on the impact this Putin war is going to have on global economic growth. A few days ago, an African President told me precisely: do not just talk about European security, which Putin is questioning; we are talking about global security. Indeed, we are talking about global security, but it also has serious consequences for Russia and its own people. I hope that the diplomatic efforts that we are seeing, and which today precisely open a window to hope, will come to a good place. I insist, no one wants war except one person, and from the looks of it, neither is the war going as well as it initially would have expected. But let us not be naive: there was no lack of diplomacy, but aggression remained. And as long as that diplomatic route doesn't go ahead, it's essential to be united in deterrence. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone has opened their eyes Putin is Europeans and Europeans. Ladies and gentlemen, until last 24 February, which was the date of the beginning of the invasion, I believe that the European Union naively believed - now we see it - that we could be a global power without a high capacity for deterrence in defence. The European Union also believed that gas, oil and coal could be safely supplied from a regime like Putin. It is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that energy and peace, the two elements that defined the creation of what we now call the European Union, are the two elements that Putin has put at risk with this war; peace and energy. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has understood the message, has taken note and has begun to act. We've done it together again, all together. On energy, we are talking about energy security on a double side, we are not only talking about security of supply, but we are also talking about affordable prices, because there can be no security without supply and also without affordable prices. With regard to security of supply and diversification, I would like to point out that the Union, at its meeting of Heads of State and Government in Versailles on 10 and 11 March, we took the decision to end as soon as possible with Russia's energy dependence, which makes us no doubt much more vulnerable to the energy blackmail of Putin, which provides international currencies precisely to finance the war in Europe, and that decision will be welcomed in the conclusions of the formal European Council last week in Brussels. The European Union has decided to drastically - drastically - steadily and as quickly as possible reduce Russia's imports of gas, oil and coal, I insist, immediately. The Union is committed to speeding up the green energy transition, and Spain will undoubtedly be at the forefront of this determined commitment to energy autonomy, the response to climate change and, ultimately, the extension and presence of green energies in our energy matrix. [[Applauds]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, for Spain this reduction in energy dependence on Russia is not as serious as for other countries. We are talking that just over 8% of the gas we consume in our country comes from Russia. We are talking about percentages that are infinitely lower than those that can have economies as important as Germany, which depends on 40% of Russian gas supply. In any case, this does not mean that we are more or less exposed to this war and its economic and social consequences. We are seeing it, I insist, again in the rise of energy prices and also of the cost of living. We all feel affected in one way or another, directly or indirectly, by the effects of war. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has one in three regasifiers in Europe. It wants to make them available to our European partners - we have said this in many debates - once we are able to complete those interconnections that we have always talked about with France and must also serve to transport the energy of the future for which the Spanish Government is going to bet, which is the green hydrogen, that is, the hydrogen that comes from renewable energy sources. As you know, Spain has taken a leading position in the matter of energy prices for months. Proposals such as the centralized purchase of gas or acting on what is called in Spanish the fallen profits from the sky of the large electricity companies, which was labeled by some of your ladies and gentlemen as little less than chavista or interventionist, are today assumed by the communiqués of the European Commission, and are Spanish proposals. [[Applauds]] We agree on energy measures at European level which are extraordinarily complex, ladies and gentlemen, and I am convinced that we are going to talk about this precisely during the debate, but to talk about a single, common solution for the whole of the European Union, which is what Spain wants, is extraordinarily complex and difficult, and the simple reason is that the Union is composed of twenty-seven Member States. We share values, a common project, but there are 27 Member States with different characteristics and, in this case, with very different energy mixes and interconnection levels. It is not the same as Belgium, as the Netherlands, as Germany, in interconnections as the Iberian peninsula, which has an interconnection of 2%, when the target in the year 2020 of the European Union was 10% and in 2030 of 15%. We're at 2%. It can therefore be said that Spain and Portugal, the Iberian peninsula, are, although integrated into the European energy market, an energy island. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Spanish Government has defended, in the absence of finding a common European position; given the complexity of finding precisely that common European solution, at least allowing Spain and Portugal, i.e. the Iberian peninsula, to act with complementary levers to which they are now established within the European energy framework. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union needs time to assimilate the complexity of these matters, to choose the right path, and this is precisely what is happening now. With great perseverance, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Government has endeavoured to convince our European partners, and it was precisely at the last European Council that we managed to get that consensus started. In the last six months - I have been told on many occasions - the Commission has issued three communications on this subject, increasingly approaching the proposals of Spain. The last, on 23 March, dedicated already to security of supply and also to affordable prices, where the Spanish proposals were included among the viable options to control the rise of prices. During the last few weeks I have proposed to explain the Spanish proposal to our European partners, country by country. The approach that I have defended, which the Spanish Government has defended, focused on three steps to meet the challenge of high energy prices, and they will allow me to explain those three steps. Firstly, urgent measures to apply immediately, as I said earlier, to non-interconnected energy islands such as the Iberian peninsula. Secondly, to put in place measures to control the price of gas on international markets, such as joint purchases, and also to discourage those third countries from the price at which gas is put and, therefore, not only to buy gas from a European perspective, but also to transfer the maximum price at which Europeans are willing to buy gas from those third countries. Thirdly, the need to move forward in the medium term towards a structural reform of the energy market. This energy market made sense thirty or forty years ago, in the 1990s, when the cost of renewable energy was even higher than that of gas, but today, on the other hand, it is clear that renewable energy is financially far more competitive than gas; therefore, we must ensure that the evolution of the gas price is not linked to the evolution of the electricity price. Therefore, three steps: firstly, measures to be taken immediately for the particular case of energy islands not interconnected to the energy market, such as the Iberian peninsula; secondly, measures to control the price of gas by centralised purchases and also with those reference prices that we place on the gas producing countries; and, thirdly, a structural reform of our energy market to somehow adapt it more to the energy reality of Europe or at least to where we want to go, which is precisely towards this energy transition and towards a preponderance of renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy saving in our continent. In that first step that took place on Monday, when we got Spain and Portugal, that is, the Iberian peninsula, to see their status as an energy island recognized, I want to thank the work not only of the European Commission but also of the Portuguese Government. In the coming weeks, exceptional temporary measures will be put in place to reduce electricity prices for consumers and businesses, and I am convinced that they will have a very rapid impact not only on developments in electricity prices but also on the cost of living in our country. We have been working for weeks now, but this week we are going to send our package of measures to the European Commission, which will urgently confirm - I am convinced - that these measures are in line with European law, taking into account these special conditions, I insist, of Spain and Portugal, such as the low level of electricity interconnection with Europe. These measures, ladies and gentlemen - it is very important that they are at least recorded - do not involve subsidies to gas, do not distort incentives to clean energy - that energy transition with which the Spanish Government is firmly committed - nor electricity flows between countries. In short, our mechanism does not distort the European electricity market, it will not pose any risk to the achievement of the European Union's energy transition and supply security objectives, but it will allow us to lower energy prices. In addition to this important step, I would say that, historically, this Council has given political impetus to all initiatives aimed at controlling the price of gas, which will now be compared with all stakeholders in the sector, with businesses, with partnerships, with NGOs and, logically, will also be a joint exercise that the European Commission is going to do with the European Council. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to make parallel progress in that second step, to which I referred earlier, and which many States - also the Government of Spain - have defended, such as Italy, Greece, Belgium, Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this European Council has been a turning point on the issue of energy, and we must congratulate ourselves on that. Now we can definitely support citizens and businesses in the face of rising prices and continue to work to consolidate energy security throughout the European Union. I would like to refer to the other element under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, which is once again European defence, which was the subject of debate at the European Council in Brussels on 24 and 25 March. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not a broad consensus, but a unanimous consensus, of the 100 % of the Member States of the European Union, that we must raise the budget in defence of the Member States of the Union to 2% in the coming years. The road map on which to deploy this new defence strategy is known as the so-called strategic compass. This is a key document, which has already been adopted, on the common security and defence policy for the next ten years; a compass that will serve to deepen our security and defence policy, but this must not be done in isolation - at least this is what the Spanish Government has defended - but we have to work with our non-EU partners, and that is why it is very important that the complementarity in NATO's defence strategy, as well as that of the European Union, is decisive. Spain will underline - it has always done so - that complementarity between the two organizations at the Madrid Summit next June. An important element that was also discussed at this last European Council - and it is probably the crisis that the world is going to suffer over the coming weeks and months - is that of food security. Spain had already stressed at the informal European Council in Versailles the importance of this issue not only for the European Union, but also for the world because of the weight that both Russia and Ukraine, you know, have on the global markets, for example, for cereals. The European Commission has already put forward proposals in support of farmers and consumers on our continent, on which we agree to continue working with the ultimate objective of strengthening our strategic autonomy, including in the food sector. In short, ladies and gentlemen, European unity in the response to the war in Putin, European unity condemning the invasion, sanctioning its regime, solidarity with Ukraine, welcoming refugees and deploying humanitarian aid, and unity, as well, ladies and gentlemen, in the response to the economic and social consequences of the war, as we also did during the pandemic, because I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe will also be strengthened from this clash. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, war, pandemics, this is the context. It is true that these are difficult times, these are complex times, ladies and gentlemen, but these are the coordinates on which we live and on which we have been governed: an exceptional health emergency, with a great economic impact, and an unjustified war with terrible human and social consequences. With a pandemic in its phase of overcoming, in full economic recovery, thanks also to European funds, this war has arrived, which only wants one person, but which tests the whole of Europe, all the Member States and, therefore, our society as well. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, knows these difficulties, knows the problems of the affected sectors, the anxiety and uncertainty about a war that has only one culprit, which is Putin. We know these problems, we take care of them, we know them sector by sector and we also know them as a whole. We would like them not to exist, we would like them to disappear, never to have happened, but unfortunately the war and its consequences are not in the hands of this government or any European government. No one, ladies and gentlemen, is protected from this war. We cannot promise that we will not be aware of the effects of war on our economy and our lives, and we are seeing it in the evolution of prices, we are seeing it in the increase of the cost of living, but what we can promise from the Government of Spain is that we are going to dislive ourselves by maximising the effects of war on our population. [[Applauds]] We can also promise from the Spanish Government that we will distribute the sacrifices in a balanced manner so that no sector, and above all no family, especially the most vulnerable, feel neglected or abandoned to their fate. That is why yesterday's Council of Ministers approved the war response shock plan, with powerful measures that will serve to protect the most affected sectors and citizens, to distribute more fairly the effects of the war and also to preserve to the maximum the path of economic growth and job creation that we had already begun months ago. This plan contains measures in five areas of action. First, measures to help families, workers, displaced persons, and also humanitarian aid. Secondly, measures to support the economic and business fabric affected by this war. Thirdly, transport measures. Fourthly, cybersecurity measures. And fifthly, energy measures. It is a plan with an investment of 6 billion euros until next 30 June in direct aid, in tax cuts, in addition to 10 billion euros, that will be transferred through ICO credits, with which we intend to cushion the impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable families, businesses and groups. If I may, entering the first bloc on families, workers and displaced persons and humanitarian aid, I would like to highlight the following measures. Firstly, as you know, a minimum bonus of 20 cents per litre of fuel until 30 June. The government is going to take a 15 cent cut, the oil companies, a minimum of 5 cents, and some of them have already announced even higher cuts, which I would like to thank from this rostrum. Secondly, and exceptionally, in order to avoid high increases that would harm tenant families, rent revisions over the next three months will have a limit of 2 %. Thirdly, we have increased the minimum living income by 15% over three months. It reminded me yesterday precisely the minister that the maximum recipients of this minimum living income are above all boys and girls. You know that we have more than two million children suffering from child poverty, and it is therefore fully justified that we increase minimum living income by 15%. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, more than 600,000 families will be able to benefit from the electric social bonus, rising from 1 200 000 to 1 900 000 households, i.e. almost 2 000 000 households in Spain protected against rising prices and their translation, in fact, to the price of electricity in our country. Fifthly, it is clear that companies receiving aid under the shock plan will not be able to fire on objective grounds; on the contrary, we have, as you know, encouraged, through this labour reform approved by the Courts, measures of internal flexibility alternative to dismissal, such as ERTE. Finally, as I announced in my last appearance, we have extended, with an extraordinary fiscal effort, until 30 June, the tax rebates linked to the bill of light, which we approved many months ago, even before Putin's invasion. I am referring to VAT, which will continue to be 10% for small consumers, the excise duty on electricity, 0.5%, or the suspension of the excise duty on electricity generation. When we talk about tax cuts, ladies and gentlemen, this government lowers taxes, but lowers taxes where it has to lower them, which is at the price of light, with 60% tax cuts at the price of light. [[Applauds]] If we talk about vulnerability, it is impossible not to refer to one of the most dramatic realities of the war that we see through the media, I insist, the millions of displaced persons and refugees who also arrive in our country. Spain, as you know, has activated the temporary protection directive. We will allocate the resources necessary for the reception of refugees from Ukraine. We have simplified the procedures of the reception system,we have enabled three reception centres, one in Madrid, the other in Barcelona and the other in Alicante. Soon we will open a room in the city of Malaga. There is no doubt that the national reception system, originally designed for a limited number of people, not for this large number of refugees, has experienced exponential growth in applications in recent times, and that is why what we have done has been to go beyond the plan and to adopt the regulations governing that system through concerted action between entities and Administration, in order to make the reception process much more stable and much more predictable. As you know, in the specific case of Ukrainian refugees, the Government has extended the assumptions laid down by the European directive on the granting of residence permits and also work permits; today there are already more than 27 000 refugees who have applied for temporary protection in Spain and there are more than 13,000 places occupied in the national reception system, which will be continuously expanded if the flow of refugees continues to increase, as we are seeing in recent days. Now the plan also adds the flexibility of the requirements in the nationality per residence files requested by Ukrainian citizens, along with other actions, such as the free rail transport for these refugees. And the plan, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, includes other measures such as facilitating type-approval, the validation of studies abroad, promoting the integration of victims of trafficking and specific care for victims of violence against women in the context of humanitarian crises. The second axis of the response plan has to do with the economic and business fabric. As I said to you, in the case of the pandemic, the first concern is to support the liquidity of our companies in the face of the threat, which is, hopefully, short-term. In this case we have the extraordinary precedent of the ICOs' endorsements, which I believe have been an outstanding experience throughout the pandemic, which were essential to save hundreds of thousands of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed workers, in the first moments of confinement. This is why the response plan envisages the implementation of a new ICO credit line, worth EUR 10 billion, covering liquidity needs caused by increased energy costs and also fuel costs. It also extends the maturity of previous ICO-backed loans in order to continue to guarantee precisely the viability of the companies that we welcome at this exceptional time. In relation to industry, which is the largest energy consumer, the volume of resources has been increased to compensate for tolls by 80 % to reach the maximum of CO2 compensation. Direct aid to the sector has also been strengthened, which will mean a total package, ladies and gentlemen, of more than EUR 500 million for the electro-intensive industry. We have also approved an important aid package of EUR 362 million - I repeat, EUR 362 million - for the agriculture and livestock sector, and another EUR 68 million for the fisheries and aquaculture sector. [[Applauds]] Finally, the plan includes many other measures that may emerge in the debate, such as, for example, support for the internationalisation of Spanish companies in a global environment of extraordinary uncertainty, as is evident, as well as a number of measures and actions in sectors at best specific, such as the cultural sector. Thirdly, the war response plan sets out a series of transport measures that you know because they have been discussed and also in agreement with the transport sector. I am fully aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government is fully aware of the difficulties it is going through in the freight transport sector and also in the passenger sector; difficulties which have already been dragging away since the summer of 2021 and which are fully linked to the rise in fuel prices. These difficulties also hamper any possibility of sustainable recovery of businesses, micro-symes and self-employed people who have already had a very bad time during the pandemic, who worked very hard precisely to meet the needs of our homes while we were all confined; or, as is the case with the transport of travellers, who were able to resist when mobility was stopped as a result of the measures we had to take to stop the spread of the virus. The Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has met with representatives of the freight department of the National Road Transport Committee to address the current situation in the sector. Different measures have been taken that have been agreed with the main partnerships in the sector. And in the field of road transport, the measures will amount to nothing more and nothing less than an injection of more than EUR 1 billion, and they are measures linked to the following paragraphs. For example, first of all, carriers will benefit most from the bonus of at least 20 cents per litre or kilo of fuel. Secondly, a €450 million fund will be set up for freight and passenger transport companies. These aids are to be established on the basis of the type of vehicle. For example, EUR 1250 per truck, EUR 900 per bus, EUR 500 per van and EUR 300 per light vehicle, i.e. taxis, ambulances or VTC. And thirdly, the hydrocarbon tax will be refunded monthly to increase the liquidity of professionals at this time so complicated that they are going through. [[Applauds]] Finally, as we did with the food chain law, we will pass a fair price law for carriers. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, the national plan for responding to war includes cybersecurity measures that are very relevant. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are all very aware that the war in Ukraine is an increase in the risk of cyberattacks that can put the operation of critical infrastructures, public administrations, private companies or university centres at risk and at risk. For this reason, the response plan includes urgent actions in the area of cybersecurity focused on three axes. The first is the adoption of the National Cybersecurity Plan, which is particularly ambitious, both in its budget allocation, with more than EUR 1 billion, and in the variety and scope of the measures. We are looking at more than 150 essential actions to ensure cybersecurity in our country. Secondly, the establishment of a cybersecurity operations centre of the General Administration of the State and its public bodies. And third, strengthening the security of the new 5G electronic communications networks, which are crucial to driving the digital revolution we are experiencing. To this end, the 5G Cybersecurity Bill, which will set out the requirements for deployment and operation of the 5G Networks, will be dealt with as a matter of urgency, logically in line with European legislation. And fifth and last, the national plan contains energy-related measures. The first of these, the most important of all because of its importance, is that adopted at the European Council, which, as I said earlier, recognises the uniqueness of the Iberian peninsula as an energy island and, therefore, the possibility of taking extraordinary and temporary measures to reduce electricity prices in Spain and Portugal. Since the beginning of this week, as I said before, both Portugal and Spain are finalizing the design of an exceptional and temporary measure to fix a reference price for gas used for the production of electricity in our country. This measure will be notified to the European Commission before the end of the week. We hope that the approval by Brussels will take place in a very short period of time and, as soon as we have the agreement of the Community institutions, the measure will be approved instantly in the State Official Gazette, with immediate effects on the light bills of our compatriots. The second measure is the updating of the specific remuneration regime for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, cogeneration and waste, the one known as Recorre. With the approval of this measure, which may sound very technical, from the point of view of the reduction of charges on the electricity system will be a reduction of €1800 million this year, so that these charges will be reduced by 55 % in 2022. Thirdly, the mechanism for reducing excess profits in the electricity market caused by the high price of natural gas quotations on international markets has been extended until 30 June, with certain modifications to strengthen efficiency and adapt it to the European guidelines. Therefore, we will be even more robust, more effective in the face of the so-called fallen benefits of the sky of large electrical corporations in our country. [[Applauds]] These measures are accompanied by other regulatory measures which are important from a structural point of view, which involve the acceleration, deployment of renewable energy in our country, energy savings, the guarantee of energy supply, but which in any case in political terms convey a strong message from the Government of Spain, and it is our commitment to the green agenda, not to turn back on the green agenda and therefore to bet on energy autonomy based on renewable energy, efficiency and energy saving. Ladies and gentlemen, the general review of these measures shows that this is an ambitious crisis response plan, which effectively responds in very different areas to the effects of the war, but also gives a global response to the effects of the war in our country. After the two long years we have been through facing an unexpected and unpredictable pandemic, it is not necessary to say that no emergency plan can be considered definitive; this is obvious. Remember that in my last appearance I called this plan open and dynamic; open to your lordships. I would like to thank the contributions that the various parliamentary groups have made over these two weeks, as well as the autonomous communities, the municipalities, the social partners, the sectors particularly affected by the economic consequences of this war, but, of course, our wish is that the war will last as little time as possible and that as soon as possible we will recover the normality of economic recovery and the creation of such intense employment as we have undertaken. But if this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, if the war is prolonged and there are other consequences, the Spanish Government will not hesitate to act again. I repeat, our unitary will in the approval and development of this necessary and ambitious plan is blunt. After a global pandemic, a number of natural disasters, including the eruption of a volcano, and now a war in Europe, we must ask ourselves again: what else has to happen if we are to respond together? Europe has understood it, Spain must understand it and the Government is going to turn, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve this maximum unity in the General Courts. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now turn to the last point of my speech, which is the new stage which is opening up in relations between Spain and Morocco and which has been the subject of debate in the media and on the part of your ladies and gentlemen in various parliamentary speeches. I will start with an obvious thing, ladies and gentlemen, and it is that Morocco, which is a geographically neighbouring country, is above all an indispensable strategic partner, and has been accumulating throughout the years of history human ties, agreements, links, which have been forging shared interests over time. There have been periods of all kinds, there have been periods of greater stability, times of greater gloomyness in which the two countries, Spain and Morocco, and their citizens have certainly lost out. In the diplomatic crisis of 2002, with the occupation of the islet of Perejil, under a government of another sign, of the People's Party, the position of the socialist opposition was clear. That is precisely what former President Zapatero conveyed when he addressed this House from this rostrum. First, he expressed support for the Government, which was then chaired by José María Aznar. Secondly, he defended dialogue and diplomacy as essential formulas for finding a solution to that dispute, because, ladies and gentlemen, relations with Morocco are a matter of State, which requires a policy of State. As I have already said, and as the Foreign Minister also shared in his appearance in Parliament last week, the Spanish Government has the firm will to open a new stage in relations between Spain and Morocco, a new stage which will have a clear, ambitious road map, which, in my opinion, will enable us to close a crisis that has been dragging on in recent times and which, I insist, has been detrimental to the two countries. This has been my objective, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of my Government. The Government has two clear objectives, ladies and gentlemen, in its foreign policy: firstly, to defend the interests of Spain - I insist, to defend the interests of Spain - and, secondly, to do so by always adjusting the coordinates of the European Union and the multilateral order expressed in the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Much has been said, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days about a shift in the position of the Government in Morocco. Rather, I would say that we must speak of one more step on a path that began 14 years ago, when the Spanish Government welcomed the Moroccan proposal for autonomy as a valuable contribution to overcoming a conflict - let us not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen - which has been enquished for more than four decades. Nor, ladies and gentlemen, is there any disinterest in, or neglect of, the suffering of the Saharan people, what is there is a firm intention to contribute to the overcoming of a conflict that was overtaken half a century ago and with no prospect of resolution, at least until now, and all this always within the framework of the United Nations and with the agreement of the parties directly involved. What is more, it is the will to establish with Morocco the relations which correspond to two neighbouring countries with such strategic importance in the field of migration control, economic and trade relations, and also the fight against terrorism. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I expressed in my letter to King Mohamed VI the intention to build - and I quote textually - 'a relationship based on transparency and permanent communication, mutual respect and respect for the agreements signed by both parties, and the abstention of any unilateral action to live up to the importance of everything we share and to avoid future crises between our countries'. [[Applauds]] The Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation is going to travel to Rabat this Friday to launch the road map that consolidates this new relationship. Firstly, what we are going to do is to ensure a secure territory, with a border capable of ensuring that people and goods are controlled. An interministerial group has been formed, ladies and gentlemen, to put forward scenarios, options for reopening borders, including a protocol defining the criterion of entry into Spanish territory and ensuring safe and smooth traffic. Secondly, we will strengthen the mobilization and commitment of the State to Ceuta and Melilla. As you know, both special plans are being drawn up within the mandate set by the National Security Strategy, with the participation of all the institutions, of the entire association structure of these two autonomous cities, and this plan will logically be accompanied by national economic resources and from the European Union's recovery funds. As you know, I was in Ceuta and Melilla last May 2021, after the massive arrival of irregular immigrants in very few hours to Ceuta. On 23 March I had the opportunity to return and I did so with a solution to the problems we face. I therefore reiterate the path we have taken, which is that of real policy, the sense of state, the stability, prosperity and security of our country and also of two autonomous cities as important as Ceuta and Melilla. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to fail to address directly the issue that has moved more sensitivities, the question of Western Sahara. Again, in my letter to King Mohamed VI I acknowledged - and I quote again textually - 'the importance of the question of Western Sahara to Morocco and the serious and credible efforts that Morocco, within the framework of the United Nations, is making to find a mutually acceptable solution'. Then I added - and I quote textually -: 'In this sense, Spain considers the Moroccan proposal of autonomy presented in 2007 as the most serious, credible and realistic basis for the resolution of that dispute'; dispute, ladies and gentlemen, once again insists, that it is already forty-six years and that we must descale. I would like to explain these words very carefully, because I want all the Spanish and Spanish, and also your ladies and gentlemen, to understand with total clarity the position we have taken on this issue and why. First, ladies and gentlemen, in my letter he reaffirmed that the United Nations is the framework for resolving the conflict in Western Sahara. Spain has always supported and will always support the United Nations framework, because it is the only possible framework, because there is no other framework, and in turn Spain supports that the solution to the conflict is a mutually accepted solution by the parties, because that is also the only possible solution. Only the parties can decide whether the proposed solution is accepted by them, no one else. It is within this framework that I have just described, ladies and gentlemen, in which we logically acknowledge Morocco's efforts to reach a solution. Secondly, after establishing the framework for the solution - that is, the United Nations - in the letter stated, as I have just read, that we believe that the Moroccan proposal of 2007 - we are in the year 2022 - is the most serious, credible and realistic basis for the resolution of this dispute, a solution that must be achieved within the framework of the United Nations between the parties. What the Spanish Government believes is that, after many years of conflict and many years of stagnation in the negotiation process, this is the basis on which there is more chance of building, with the mediation - I insist again - of the United Nations and within the framework of its resolutions - I say this once again - a solution that can be accepted by the parties. The solution must be facilitated by the United Nations following a negotiation process, it must be adapted by the parties at the end of that process, and the rest of the international community, including Spain, must help the United Nations to move this negotiation process forward. Thirdly, I would like to stress that this is a position aligned with that of our European partners and with many other countries. France has supported Morocco's proposal for years; Germany has recently endorsed it through a letter sent by the President of the German Republic to the king of Morocco last January, as I did a few weeks ago. The European Commission, the High Representative and Vice-President of the European Union have expressed support for the position expressed by the Government of Spain. Also the United States - we just saw it yesterday - has recognized that Morocco's plan is serious, credible, realistic, and this is the position expressed by the Biden Administration, as I have just recalled. But, moreover, all the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council since 2007 take note of the Moroccan and Frente Polisario proposals and welcome - and I quote textually - the resolution of this United Nations Security Council - I insist, textually - 'with satisfaction Morocco's serious and credible efforts to move forward in the process towards a solution'. I would also like to recall that this is a clear position, but it is not new with regard to the positions expressed by previous governments in Spain. Spain had already recognized the autonomy plan in 2007, when it was presented precisely by the Moroccan authorities to the then President Zapatero. Joint statements adopted at the high-level meetings between the Government of Spain and the Government of Morocco, held in Morocco, chaired by Mariano Rajoy in 2012 and 2015, recognized Morocco's efforts and disappeared any reference to the right to self-determination. In particular, in 2012, ladies and gentlemen, the following was said in text: 'Spain has also welcomed Morocco's serious and credible efforts'. And in 2015 that phrase was repeated, which is also what I used in my letter to King Mohamed VI. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not underestimating the decision I have taken, I have taken it with the full will to take a step forward. However, it is appropriate to point out that when the Presidents of the Government of different political signs have met with this question of Western Sahara they have always understood its enormous complexity, and I ask you to appreciate that complexity as well. [[Applauds]] We have reaffirmed, we have deepened our position precisely now that a new window of opportunity has just been opened to resume negotiations. It's said, why now? Because now a window of opportunity has been opened, ladies and gentlemen; because the parties can achieve, after forty-six years, a solution to the conflict or, at least, open a negotiation process; because a new personal envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for Western Sahara, Staffan de Mistura, has recently been appointed - last October - who has renewed the hope that these negotiations can be resumed. After two years without the appointment of a new special envoy by the Secretary-General of the United Nations - up to thirteen candidates, ladies and gentlemen, had previously been rejected - there is again one that has been well received by the parties, which enjoys the full support of the international community and, without a doubt, also of our country. Spain wants to take an active, non-passive role and actively support the work of the new special envoy Staffan de Mistura. I would like to conclude this chapter, ladies and gentlemen, by reaffirming and reiterating Spain's support for the Saharan people. We are the main donor of humanitarian aid to the Saharan refugee camps, and be assured that we will continue to provide them with such humanitarian support. [[Applauds]] The conflict in Western Sahara has already condemned too many generations of Saharans to poverty, to lack of opportunity. I hope that, under the efforts of the new special envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, progress can be made in the negotiations, and Spain will certainly lend, as it is already providing, support in order to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by thanking you for your attention. It is a fact that in just twenty-six months of the legislature we have had to deal with a chained succession of emergencies of extraordinary depth. The worst global pandemic of the last century, various migration crises, natural disasters with the La Palma volcano paradigm, the evacuation of Afghanistan and now the Russian war in Ukraine; extraordinary events that have forced us, without rest, to take extraordinary measures, so I would like to thank each and every member of the Council of Ministers for the work they have carried out over these long months of legislature. [[Applauds]] It is also a fact that we have responded to these challenges, as I said before, with measures based on justice, unity and determination. In justice, especially based on a welfare state that has demonstrated, with swift and effective measures, that the old recipes, based on cuts and social exclusion, are not the way. The axes of transformation have been established, by which the world is going to move forward and by which Spain cannot be detached: digitisation, energy transformation and, without a doubt, the qualification of our human capital, of our young people in order to guarantee their employability and also their intellectual autonomy in a charged world - as we are seeing in recent weeks especially - of misinformation. And we have reached historic agreements, such as the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which ultimately means debt-sharing at European level, which will have a profound modernising effect on our country. But now, without a solution of continuity, we are suddenly faced with a nightmare that we thought had been overcome since World War II on our continent, as is the return of war to the heart of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing of the debate that we are going to hold can and must therefore ignore this absolutely indisputable fact, and it is that we are facing an emergency that is going to define Spain and Europe in the coming decades. And, if our heart is at the side of the Ukrainian people, who suffer directly from the atrocity of this aggression perpetrated by a dictator like Putin, we cannot and must not forget another equally indisputable fact, and it is that the security, the well-being of our country is at risk if we do not act with roundness and determination. And I am not referring only to the various consequences of the invasion - from the reception of the refugees to the energy crisis we suffer - Putin's ordago to the international political, economic and social order poses a threat to the global destabilization that can affect the very course of the war but that can also lead us to imagine the worst of the scenarios as a long post-war period. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call once again on responsibility, as we have already done in the worst moments of the pandemic, I call again on intelligence, on capacity, on the common sense of all the political forces in this House, to understand well the gravity of the moment we live in. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an unprecedented scenario, open to many possibilities, both positive and extraordinarily negative. We have to make decisions in the midst of the profound irrationality of a war, with all the uncertainty that this entails, and therefore we cannot get lost in minor debates and barren quarrels that take us away from that fundamental view. For once, therefore, on behalf of the Government, if I ask for something from your ladies and gentlemen, it is union, it is support. [[Applauds]] And I want to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not think that asking for support and unity in the midst of a pandemic and a war in Europe is too much asking. In exceptional times of unity and extraordinary solutions, we have tried this during these 20 months of the legislature, not always with the consensus that would have been desirable, but I do not lose hope. Let us do so this time; I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for the good of Spain and for the good of Europe. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u6	Thank you, President. Mr President, let me start by clarifying that you do not come here of your own free will, come by the unanimous will of the parliamentary groups and because you are required to participate in a European Council. [[Applauds]] Otherwise, I doubt we would have had him here today. Your own will should have been previously, that is, showing and exposing the change of position in relation to Morocco that you yourself have decided. That, without a doubt, is the contempt you feel and practice towards this Parliament. I think it would be good if I changed that attitude. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, let's talk about Spain, let's talk about real Spain, that Spain which has a hyperinflation of 9.8 in March - as has just been spread by the INE - a galloping loss of purchasing power of wages and a horizon under the threat of stagnation. Disstocking in supermarkets, breaking the food chain, slaughtering of animals by farmers, closing of factories, stopping of companies for lack of raw materials, mooring of the fishing fleet, stops of carriers, and we could continue. This is the limit situation of forty-seven million Spaniards and this month of March sums up just thirty-one days the sad reality of its entire political execution. Look, while our European partners were acting urgently to relieve inflation to their citizens, your government has spent three weeks in myopia without taking any single measure, a single tax cut and a single direct aid, until today. It's all been a kick forward. Why hasn't he done anything? None of these initiatives depended on the European Council and its passivity has pushed Spanish society into collapse. Today Spain lives in a deep social unrest, which has as its origin that you neither listen to nor dialogue with the Spaniards. His divided and broken government, as we can all see, has inadmissibly demonized desperate carriers for working at a loss. Under any European standard of accountability, he should have resigned by now; and there will be no propaganda campaign that can hide the government's collapse. We have lived as Mrs Calviño, who is to the macroeconomic forecasts what Fernando Simón to the health forecasts, said a few days ago: Spain is one of the countries less exposed to the conflict, both from the point of view of commercial exposure and energy dependence; to which Mrs Díaz replied: We have an economic and social crisis of the utmost gravity for our country. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] What do we have to stick to, Mr Sánchez, what does your first vice-president or your second vice-president say? They don't even agree on the diagnosis. Look, Mr. Sanchez, on one thing, I do agree with you. Of course, the serious economic and social crises have exogenous triggers! Of course I do! Practically all of them. This was the case with subprime mortgages in the 2008 economic recession; with the COVID pandemic in 2022 and, now, with the Ukraine war in 2022. But what differentiates the magnitude of the effects of the crisis on one society or another is precisely the economic policy with which one Government or another is facing that crisis, and its own is the worst government at the worst possible time. [[Applauds]] And here are the data; the data that allows us to compare with other countries that have faced the same crises and yet are better than Spain. In Spain, the most vulnerable have been the most affected by their harmful economic policies. The AROPE rate warned that 7 per cent of the population was in extreme material need. If we talk about energy poverty, more than 5 million people have not been able to heat their homes and 9.6% have been delayed in the payment of receipts. That's real Spain. Mr Sánchez, the political parties that forget their history are doomed to repeat it, and in Spain, unfortunately, what is repeated is that the Socialist Party ruins the middle and working classes once every ten years and, behind it, the People's Party arrives to fix its wreckage. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let us see, because of its calamitous management, the Spanish economy came to the outbreak of war being, by far, the most fragile and vulnerable in the European Union. In 2020 we were the country that sank the most and destroyed the most wealth. Why? Because of their inability to articulate effective responses to the effects of the pandemic. By the beginning of 2021 it was clear that we were going to be the country that was going to delay its economic recovery the most. Unemployment in Spain doubles the European average. We were already the second country with the most government deficit and the fourth with the most debt, 122% of GDP; and inflation was already there, Mr Sánchez; it was already there. You cannot also demand sacrifices from the Spaniards, as you do, while the government lives in a king's capacity. It can save up to €60 billion by improving the efficiency of public spending. That is already a moral obligation for a Government, and in its shock plan it does not devote a single word to it. Neither today in his presentation has he devoted a single word to the pursuit of efficiency in public spending and, therefore, to spending less on his Government. In short, Spain's only exceptionality is its Government, which is a problem for the Spaniards and their failure, a social cry. The consequence of its collapse as a ruler is the decline of Spain and the ruin of the Spaniards. I wanted to uncouple the gas, but the only thing that lives uncoupled from reality is you. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, today you are bringing us to this House a three-month temporary plan that is clearly insufficient; measures that go only from April to June, and some of them or so. Instead of the grandiose name with which he has been baptized, it could be called more judiciously the spring plan. Of course, EUR 6 billion of late aid and weak fiscal relief, together with a new round of ICO credits worth EUR 10 billion, are insufficient to deal with an energy crisis that is increasingly reminiscent of the 1973 shock. To topple the megawatt; what was supposed to be the star measure, today has not even been able to explain to us the. It will not apply until a month from now; that is if you are granted the European Commission's approval. The remaining initiatives are a whirlwind of measures that mix some already in force with some new and surprising ones, such as the investment in cybersecurity, which we obviously celebrate, but which you will already tell me what effects it has on the containment of inflation. Let us not be mistaken, the Iberian exception is the finding of a weakness as a country, and it has been the last-minute improvised remedy to hide that Brussels has rejected its claims. In this very House, he said a few weeks ago that he was going to lead a common energy policy, and what he brings us is exceptional because he is out of the deal. The conclusions of the European Council last weekend do not mention any Iberian exception for Spain and Portugal. He'll explain to us why. The only thing mentioned is the possibility of being able to take exceptional measures according to the degree of interconnection and the weight of renewables in the national energy mix - yes, Mr Sánchez - but the truth is that the European Commission had already allowed it since 8 March. Brussels then gave the green light that States could agree on measures relating to the fixing of maximum prices in the generation market, approve tax rebates or agree specific support measures for groups of particular sensitivity to the effects of energy-intensive industries, such as the electro-intensive industry. What were you waiting for, that the families would lower the heating a few degrees, that they would go on a bicycle to work, as requested by their nefarious Minister of Transport? You, as usual, decided not to do anything and those who pay that passivity are the Spaniards. In May 2021, when electricity was already rising by 36%, we presented to you for debate in this plenary a shock plan to lower the electricity bill of families and businesses. That plan included, among other measures, the temporary suspension of the value-of-electricity tax and a temporary reduction of VAT to 4%, but you rejected it. We resubmitted it with some improvements in autumn, and the Government vetoed it. His Government had, in fact, partially rectified and subsequently temporarily suspended the value-of-electricity tax, also reducing VAT to 10%, but only for certain consumers. This is precisely one of the measures which it has decided to extend until June. We ask you to be more ambitious. And it makes sense, because this reduction has made it possible for the price of electricity not to rise by an additional 26,1 % and therefore to have an impact on the general CPI of 9 tenths. I know you have an allergy to tax cuts, but, as you see, lowering taxes contributes, and a lot, to reducing inflation, while raising a dozen taxes, as you have done in 2021 and keep for the 2022 year, makes us have an inflation 3 points above Portugal or France. [[applause]] Do you realize that inflation isn't just Putin's fault? Internal politics also influences, and a lot. Look at the inflation that other countries have in our environment. The war is the same, the government is different. On 15 March the People's Party registered an initiative to lower the minimum rate or temporarily suspend the excise duty on hydrocarbons, in addition to the short-term reduction of VAT to 4%. I urge you to support it as it would allow you to lower, in the most conservative scenario, 37 cents per litre of gasoline and 33 cents per litre of diesel, i.e. almost twice the bonus of 20 cents per litre that includes your spring plan. To all this, how are independent and small gas stations going to cope with this measure? You don't know anything and, according to you, this applies in two days. They intend to use - I imagine - the brand of the house: more bureaucracy, improvisation and, for the moment, to finance the weakest. [[Applauds]] We are faced with a measure that will again be less effective than tax cuts. Firstly, because instead of helping to reduce inflation it is going to increase it and, secondly, because being a fixed amount can be neutralized if the price of gasoline continues to rise. They don't listen to us, they don't listen to transporters, they don't listen to private people, and in the end, what happens is that what they approve is absolutely insufficient. From the point of view of industry and the productive fabric, there is a lack of measures to solve the problems in the supply chain or to mitigate the effects on our foreign trade following sanctions against Russia. Furthermore, the measures announced with regard to transport have not resolved the strike and the supply problems are still there, Mr Sánchez. They must be more ambitious. The plan contains a 15% increase in minimum living income, which is another example of the social failure of a government called progressive. We need management, Mr Sánchez, and good management, which you lack. Why? Because will families who have stayed out of that minimum living income be able to benefit from this 15% increase? You spoke of 850,000 households and have benefited 360,000. He told us today about more than 2 million children. Not all these millions of children are in those 360,000 homes. Therefore, it will not be possible to benefit from this increase if the minimum living income has not yet reached. And if we talk about housing, you propose an interventionist update of 2% of the rents that distorts the market and that can also generate very unwanted effects. You always forget the same thing, and it is that there are millions of Spaniards in this country who have their savings invested in wealth, in housing. There's another option. Why not use the IRPF option, which guarantees you that no undesirable effects are generated? Use that other way. Or why not adjust the IRPF so that families do not pay twice the price increase, one in the shopping basket and the other when they make the rental declaration? Analyze it, study it. You should consider it because there are 4 billion of all Spaniards at stake there. In addition, your'spring plan' is preceded by the breakdown of your commitments with the autonomous communities, because you have actually failed the autonomous presidents: at the Conference of La Palma you committed to approve new tax rebates and there are none. What else has to happen for you to keep your word? [[Applauds]] That is a question that you too must ask yourself today, Mr Sánchez. The crisis will be with you and you with the crisis, and yes, history will be repeated, a new government of the People's Party will bring more favorable moments for Spanish society. But you have not only failed in economic policy, but also in foreign policy. We have all seen it at the NATO Summit, where its loneliness has been evident. Biden's still unreceived. You speak of unity and I agree with you, it is very important unity, especially in external matters. Here we are. What I ask you is: are you able to guarantee the unity of your own Government? That is also a question that you must ask yourself today, because you ask for unity from all, but you are not able to offer to the Spaniards. [[applause]] By the way, on the NATO issue neither its partner in the government nor its investiture partners support it; only this party, the People's Party. If you tell us today what you intend to put forward at the next NATO summit and how you intend to approve the increase to 2% of what you have told us, which we always support and which, as you know, we have offered you at the time. I say to him that we will be here, but I ask him: will all the votes of the coalition partners be? It's good that you answer this question. In addition, I will make you a proposal: that Ceuta and Melilla be expressly integrated into the alliance's security umbrella. Are you prepared to include that important issue in the new strategic concept? Loneliness is also seen in the Copernican turn that has taken in the relationship with Morocco. It demands unity and patriotism. Where are your unity and patriotism in this matter? What else has to happen if you, in a responsible way, had previously appeared here to raise Spain's foreign position in this House, in Parliament? [[Applauds]] Because all the groups in this House are united - you saved - in which that turn cannot be behind all of us. On 18 March, there was a break in 47 years of consensual policy towards Western Sahara, a consensus not only between you and us, but one of the few issues on which all groups shared the same position. In addition, we knew that radical turn through a statement from the Moroccan Royal House. Everything that surrounds this statement is one of the most regrettable events in our diplomatic history and shows that you are not aware of what Spain and its more than five centuries of history represents. He has never been able to handle the neighbourhood policy with Morocco. If you recall, the high-level meeting scheduled for December 2020 was suspended - and was already convened - precisely because of the irresponsible statements of its then vice president. And with that ability of yours to dig a little deeper, instead of solving problems to fix it, what happened? The Gali case, which led to the worst crisis with Morocco in decades. This according to the arguments of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, the one you lead. And to get out of Rabat's jam, it has caused a crisis with Algeria, a crisis with its Government and a crisis with all the parliamentary groups in this House. I mean, trying to close a crisis, it's provoked three. This, Mr. Sánchez, is very difficult to overcome. [[Applauds]] The truth is that the person who had the occurrence of this management is a real phenomenon that should already be outside the Council of Ministers, if it is there. Look, it is already humiliating that it is the Moroccan Royal House that informs us of the change of our policy towards that country that you made no more or less than by letter, but knowing the content of it the mouth has done nothing but grow. Please note that those who have written it do not even know the official name of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, not to mention the rest of the wording. Mr. Sanchez, who wrote you the letter? Have you signed what others have written to you? And who are those others? Did you sign the letter without reading or do you not even know the name of your Ministry of Foreign Affairs? This episode reminds us of the'signing whatever' that former President Zapatero said at that Euro-Mediterranean Summit. But how could you put your heading in that document? No one understands. With this way of acting what remains in doubt is whether the content of that letter was the one you wanted or the one that was dictated to you. Honestly, Spain does not deserve this and neither does this House. That letter is a big one and that it is now trying to justify that it has not been a 360-degree change in our foreign policy nor the breaking of a traditional consensus in our policy is disrespecting the members of this House and the Spanish as a whole. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u8	Never before had any President of the Government ceased to support the search for a just, lasting and acceptable solution for Sahara for all parties within the framework of the United Nations, and that should continue. [[Rumors]] I don't understand how it can make so much fun of you, I think it's a serious matter that you're ignoring. [[Applauds]] Therefore, the communiqués of the high-level meetings of the years 2012 and 2015 held under the governments of the People's Party were agreed and, therefore, Mr Sánchez, public, and did not condition or bother anyone. It is enough to manipulate words to try to justify the unjustifiable. Why do you think none of your six predecessors signed such a letter? You think you're smarter than them? No one would have written down what you have been given to sign. Spain had never left the United Nations framework until now. That's the way you want to move on to history! [[Applauds]] He assures that his letter opens a new stage with Morocco. For three times he uses that expression and so he has reiterated it to us again here today. The pillar of this new stage is that you expressly accept that Spain considers the Moroccan proposal of autonomy presented in 2007 as 'the most serious, credible and realistic basis' for the resolution of the problem of Western Sahara. Not only has it taken advantage of the solution of one of the parties, in this case, Rabat, it has gone beyond what France or Germany have signed, which consider this plan to be a basis, but not the basis. You directly conceded it was the base, coming further than anyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u9	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u10	I'm finishing up. You should know that there is no minor detail in diplomatic language a word or an article, because that is absolutely everything. By the way, Mr Sánchez, has the Kingdom of Morocco responded to your letter? Because in diplomatic uses the letters have a written answer as well. Have you received it yet? Are you waiting? Or is this diplomatic use going to change it too? Has Morocco given you any guarantees about Ceuta, Melilla and the Canary Islands? Because territorial integrity is not the same for Spain as for Morocco. If all this is serious, it is even more serious what happened with Algeria, a country that is also a partner and friend of Spain and that is our traditional, most solid and reliable gas supplier. A moment when precisely everything that has to do with energy goes through an extraordinarily delicate situation as a result of the invasion of Ukraine is not exactly the best for what you have done.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u11	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u12	I'm finishing up. These circumstances make it incomprehensible for the foreign minister to lie to a neighbouring country. [[Rumors]] But with you at the front, the worst is always coming. Take a look at the consequences of the Algerian crisis for the energy sector. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u14	When all Western countries are looking for reliable energy suppliers you have weakened our relationship with Algeria. Does that sound like a misconception to you? It is.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u15	Mrs. Gamarra, I'll tell you for the third time, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u16	It's over now. We need your road map. It would be good for us to get out of here today knowing where you want to take this country, because right now you have a service sheet that is full of failures and that is not what Spain needs. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, you have spoken for an hour and a half and you have said many things, but it is essential that we begin by saying one: It doesn't matter what you say in this rostrum; in fact, it doesn't matter what you say. And while it is outside the debate that is before us today, it is worth remembering a few words, those that said philosophy must return to the classrooms. That is the commitment of the Government: studying it is vital to understand each other and to develop critical thinking that will help us to face injustices. These are his literal words of the year 2018, and the government has just guaranteed the disappearance of the philosophy of the classrooms, Mr Sánchez. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Mr. Sanchez, you fight up to philosophy, perhaps because you don't want the schoolchildren to know who Socrates was because the sophists killed him... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u20	..., the sophists like you, who have no appreciation for the truth, who believe that truth does not matter, that truth does not exist and that it is worth any trick or trap with such as to confuse the masses, which, by the way, you no longer confuse. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, the Spaniards have run out of patience and your Government is running out of traps. That's why you don't go out anymore. Where's your loyalty, Mr. Sanchez? Where's your loyalty? Today we are going to talk about it and it is not a rhetorical question, because I believe that many in this House are not right to guess it. In your change of position on the Sahara, which has been irresponsible, which has been arbitrary and which has been clandestine, to whom do you obey? Its party is clear that not because it was not on its electoral agenda and some Socialist Members and Senators have publicly shown their discomfort with this issue. By the way, he's bothered them more than his deal with Bildu and ETA. [[Applauds]] Nor does it seem to its government partners. In fact, the Government's explanation for the illegal entry into Spain of the head of the Frente Polisario, responsible for the disappearance and death, among others, of many Canary sailors is still pending. To this House, where national sovereignty resides, it is clear that you do not obey either because we are now talking about that letter that you have unilaterally sent, at your own risk. Nor do your voters, we already knew that twenty-four hours after the elections, in which you lied to them and we will remind you here until the last day of this parliamentary term. [[Applauds]] Nor have you been loyal, Mr Sánchez, to the interests of Spain, and that is the first obedience that a President of the Government must have. It is not in Spain's interests that a foreign newspaper discloses a change of stance in Spain's international policy that does not endorse either a party, a government, a parliament or an electorate, which you alone endorse. [[Applauds]] Moreover, what has happened is an affront to Spain. The letter you have sent is an insult to this Parliament. It is an insult to this Parliament to the letter you sent to the King of Morocco. Yes, that letter that he now denies, says that there is no change of position because other governments said that Morocco's contribution was credible and that it had to be valued. It is that you have said that it is 'the most serious, credible and realistic basis'. You have subscribed to the position of Morocco. He says he has done so in line with our European partners. You've gone far beyond them. But in line with the dictate? Whose dictate, Mr. Sanchez? An affront and an insult to this Parliament that the Spanish will again pay, because only you can think of this destabilization in the middle of an energy and social crisis caused by you - we will talk about it extensively - and by your submission to climate fanaticism. Therefore, I insist, you have a duty to answer to who is loyal. I doubt that you have the courage to clarify this in this Parliament. Or is it simple megalomania?Do you think you have the right to get up in the morning and do whatever you want and decide what new catastrophe the Spaniards are going to experience? Because you have told us many things here: that relations with Morocco are a matter of state - we know - the importance of trade relations, that the crisis with Morocco at the border will be resolved, that it will be better to control that border and that future crises must be avoided. Of course there's a problem with Morocco! You have caused it, among other things, by welcoming here one of the leaders of the Frente Polisario and increasing it by favoring the so-called effect that Morocco has been using permanently against our border. [[Applauds]] And, of course, by giving in, as you've done, it's not going to work out. In fact, the President of the Moroccan Government has just claimed Ceuta and Melilla as part of Morocco. He just did it after his assignment! Congratulations, Mr. Sanchez. In the meantime, the new problem that you have created with Algeria, who will solve it? Are the Algerian pateras going to increase that will reach the Balearics or the coasts of Levante or are we going to pay for it with the Algerian gas we need? To begin with, Algeria has suspended irregular repatriations from Spain and flights from Iberia. Congratulations, Mr. Sanchez! On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with all due consideration and respect, we encourage you to resolve your internal debates as soon as possible - we hope that this very weekend - and to convey to the Spaniards a unique position on this and all the others, because it does not help the work of the opposition that is not clear who marks the opposition on this issue, if Mrs Gamarra marks it in this Parliament, Mr Feijóo from the Galician Council, Mr Vivas from Ceuta applauding Mr Sánchez and joining the thesis of this Government or Mr Donald Tusk from Brussels. [[applause]] As you know, and I believe that in that we will agree and we will be able to agree even more in the future, Spain is in the worst hands at the worst time and it is the job of the opposition to create a viable and efficient alternative. Ladies and gentlemen, this government of arbitrary and clandestine actions has again led Spain to a dramatic situation. Worst government at the worst time. We said we had to change course; we have been demanding it for four years and warning him in this rostrum. The energy crisis and hyperinflation, which Mr Sánchez blamed on Putin's criminal war, were already here before the war, Mr Sánchez. [[Shows a graph on inflation growth]] From 0 to 7% before the war. Inflation was already growing by its policies, it is not shielded, it is not hidden. [[Applauds]] We are already at 9.8 inflation - that is, we are 10% poorer than a year ago - and this rise is caused by you, as we had warned, by the submission of all of you in this House to climate fanaticism and by the renunciation of all of you to energy sovereignty, food sovereignty and industrial sovereignty. That is to say, by renouncing to explore our energy resources, by renouncing to sow our fields and by renouncing to manufacture our products. [[Applauds]] When they brought that climate law to this House in May last year, a climate law that imposed on Spain their Paris agreements, only VOX voted against; only VOX voted against; only VOX is innocent of the economic consequences of that climate law. At that time, the price on the daily electricity market was EUR 79 per megawatt/hour; at the beginning of this month we had reached EUR 700 per megawatt/hour, Mr Sánchez. By the way, you have come here to roar for unity; unity to sink into disaster when not even your government is united and when you bargain with the enemies of unity. Let's not talk about it. We don't believe him. It is not sincere when it calls for unity in this House. You're an autocrat. You want to do what you want on the sidelines of this House, on the sidelines of your party, because you're worth it. [[Applauds]] And why did that happen with the climate law passed by this House? Basically because that climate law, the international agreements that inspire it and the European Green Pact are aimed at reducing our energy production capacity and increasing our dependence on third countries, often hostile or unstable countries. And he comes here and says there's no turning back on the green agenda and mixes the green agenda with energy autonomy. It's impossible, Mr. Sanchez. What you say is impossible. It's a lie, like most of the things he says in this rostrum. There's no turning back, he says. You are telling the Spaniards that there is no turning back in the ruin and misery to which they have been condemned with the vote in this House. [[Applauds]] Since its entry into force, the Act provides that no new authorizations for the exploration, investigation or exploitation of hydrocarbons shall be granted on national territory. That is, neither coal nor oil nor natural gas. With this law, this House voted for the suicide of Spain in a gigantic act of betrayal of the Spaniards which has led to the destruction of our well-being and to the generation of poverty, ladies and gentlemen. Not only in energy, but also in industry, as we have seen, for example, with regard to medicines during the epidemic, but also in the primary sector. You have made the Spaniards depend on unstable countries and hostile countries for the most basic goods - for light, for gas, for bread, for medicine - and all that while increasing the artificial costs of CO2 emissions. How is it possible that, given the shortage of maize and oil, we have to ask permission not to know who in Brussels so that our farmers can sow? Who in his right mind in this House does that seem acceptable to? Is anyone in this House aware of the level of dependence that Spain has been condemned to? Is anyone aware of what that means for our compatriots in their day-to-day lives? How is it possible that Spanish energy companies are closing or flying thermal power stations when the Spanish pass cold because they can't turn on the heating because they can't pay for the receipt? Is there anyone who doesn't scandalize this situation, have to read constantly news? [[Applauds]] These are from the month of March: 'Green light to the pass before the closing of the central of Endesa in As Pontes'. [[shows some press clippings]] Diario Palentino: 'Iberdrola will fly on 31 the chimney of Group 1 of the thermal.' 'Deindustrialization of Spain: Naturg And receives the last authorization to dismantle the Narcea thermal plant'. Right now! You're still busy. Mr Sánchez, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, let us ask you again, to whom are you loyal? In the name of climate fanaticism they have imposed misery and dependence. Extract our gas? No, no, Bring him from the U.S. on metanerous ships that contaminate? Yeah. Coal centers in Spain? No, you have to dynamite them and let everyone see it so that they see how ecologists we are, but buy electricity produced with coal from Morocco yes, because we must have a different atmosphere than that of Morocco, despite the dust of the Sahara that we have just received these weeks. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Nuclear power stations in Spain? No, thank you. Buying nuclear power from France? Yes, of course. And the same with the mines, with the fracking, with the industry and with the plastic. When it comes to creating work and future for Spain your answer is no, but if it is the big funds or foreign powers that make business you can say yes. His is not ecology, his is ignorance, folly or betrayal. Who do you serve? [[Applauds]] Because we only owe ourselves to the Spaniards, that's why we talk about sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about sovereignty, that is, the ability to decide our present and to choose our future. That is what you have renounced and the consequences are paid not you, but all the Spaniards. And when we say energy sovereignty we do not mean self-sufficiency - which, by the way, is an acceptable, credible and feasible goal in the medium and long term - we mean the ability to decide what we invest in, what we explore in our natural resources to reduce our dependence, to increase supply and to lower prices and that the Spaniards can live better. [[Applauds]] He talks a lot about Putin's criminal war. Haven't you learned anything from the war in Ukraine? Don't you understand that we can't depend on hostile or unstable countries? We now depend on Algeria's gas, and Algeria withdraws us from the ambassador and blocks repatriations. Do they not realize that the European countries are already rectifying, opting for traditional energy production formulas, because they want to regain that energy sovereignty? Are you going to be the last to abandon the climate fanaticism that has brought us to ruin and that threatens the Spanish with misery? Mr Sánchez, as far as everything that tells us today is concerned, I told you at first, I have to tell you that you act like a professional fraudster. [[Applauds]] Presenting now some gruesome accounts, some triumphs theoreticians who only see their subsidized press, but who do not see them the Spaniards, and pretending that the debate revolves around the patches for the punctures you have caused is something that we are not going to accept. If you can lower one more point, if you can subsidize one cent more... To pretend to entertain ourselves without discussing the causes that have brought us here is something that we are not going to contribute to. You claim that in order to be exempt from liability, but the Spanish people are not going to be fooled by their deceptions, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Self-employed, merchants, students, pensioners, families, all Spaniards want a serious debate in this House about the policies that have caused ruin and about the policies that can solve our problems. It has not been a natural catastrophe - which exists - neither an epidemic nor a war. No more tricks and traps! Don't hide, don't shirk your responsibilities. It has basically been the climate laws that have brought us here. [[Rumors]] It has been his submission to foreign interests that has turned Spain into a deindustrialized moor, it has been his lack of judgment that is causing the southern border to stagger and it has been his pacts with the enemies of Spain, of national unity, of the constitutional order - that which you also tread according to the Constitutional Court - that are leading the Spaniards to misery and insecurity. [[applause]] Mr. Sanchez, stop throwing balloons out. The root cause is a government built from the beginning with all the enemies of unity, with all the enemies of equality and with all the enemies of the well-being of the Spaniards. I conclude, Mr Sánchez - I know you will be happy -. The Spaniards have run out of patience and that's why you can't go out on the street. Transporters ruined by their policies refuse to work by losing money in every port and refuse to be criminalized and insulted as they do with the opposition. Who can blame them for not going to work if they lose money? You can blame him; you can blame him, Mr Feijóo, who had the occurrence of trying to replace them with the military. In the meantime, you, gentlemen of the government, lords of the sinister, lords of separatism and lords of coup, who are the only ones responsible, follow your own, with your dearest ideological obsessions, such as gender; as the ministry of Mrs Montero; as separatism itself, which has been dear to Spain; as the criminalization of the countryside, livestock and agriculture, or its climatic laws, or as the criminalization of the diesel and the vehicle industry in Spain, which is so important to so many families. While you're at it, we're with the Spaniards and the things to eat. We would appreciate it if you would respond in this rostrum to whom you obey, Mr. Sánchez. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u21	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, which accumulates in this turn its turn of replica, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u22	Thank you, President. First of all, a previous question, Mr.Abascal has not spoken even thirty seconds about Putin's criminal invasion of Ukraine; perhaps the explanation is in the Russian financing of HazteOir... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u24	Perhaps it also has to do with yesterday, in Madrid City Hall, being the only group that wants to keep Putin's city council medal. [[Applauds]] I think we need to put this on the table. The international allies of the assassin dictator are precisely the far right in all countries, and also in Spain. That is why Mr Abascal has not spoken for thirty seconds about the invasion of Ukraine. Secondly, to be a party that claims to be attached to reality, it is incredible the level of climate negationism they deploy. There are few issues where there is more scientific consensus than the fact that climate change is anthropogenic. In my profession, there is often no consensus as broad as that, and that a party that claims to be attached to reality is against 99% of scientists is simply ridiculous. [[Applauds]] Having said that, before entering the matter, I wanted to begin by thanking the representatives of Western Sahara here at the Congress of Deputies at such a difficult time for the Saharan people. Thank you so much for being here. [[Applauds]] He also wished to welcome the diplomatic progress being made towards a peace agreement between Ukraine and Russia, particularly with the appointment of a mediator by the United Nations. I believe that everyone wants peace, especially the Ukrainian people. I believe that we must celebrate all and all that progress that I hope will soon bring about a peace agreement that will put an end to the war. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, these previous questions have entered into the subject of the debate we are debating here today. Today it is up to me to take on a complex intervention. By definition, coalitions are formed by political forces that coincide in some things, if it would not be impossible to coalition, and they disagree in so many others, if we were not the same political party, would be a one-party government and would not be a coalition. I know this is a grudge, but I feel obliged to say this grudge because we live in a day-to-day time when the scarecrows who hysterically cry out that we have betrayed our principles when we come to an agreement with the Socialist Party or start screaming that the government is broken every time we disagree. Well, not one thing or the other. It is something called a coalition and it is a fairly old invention in parliamentary democracies. I say that my speech is complex because today's debate is a good example of this happening in the coalitions. Today we are dealing with a matter on which we disagree, Mr President, and another issue on which we have many points in common. I will start with the first, with the one in which we have a disagreement with the will to end the good part of my intervention. I'm going to start with Western Sahara. Firstly, I wanted to establish clearly the terms of the debate. Much is being said and there are different views on whether or not there has been a change of position on this issue and indeed the diplomatic issues are very complex, but the existing positions on the settlement of the conflict in Western Sahara are very simple to understand, and I think we will have to start there. Basically, there are two positions. One, which defends the self-determination of the Saharan people, that is, if they so decide, they can form an independent State, and another is that which prefers Western Sahara to be one more province of the Moroccan regime, with some level of autonomy still to be defined. These are basically the two positions that exist, and I have not heard any other positions that are outside these two. The first, that of the right of self-determination, is the position of the UN, through resolutions 2625 and 1514, is the position of the United Podemos and it is also the one on the electoral agenda of the Socialist Party, where it is literally said to be committed to a solution of the conflict that is just, definitive, mutually acceptable and respectful of the principle of self-determination of the Saharan people. The second position, the position that the Sahara becomes one more province of the Moroccan regime with some level of autonomy yet to be defined, is Trump's position - let us not forget that Trump defined it, although now Mr. Biden maintains it - is obviously Morocco's position, as everyone knows, and now, unfortunately, from our point of view, is the position of the Government of Spain. If I am wrong, it is easy to deny myself, it would be enough for the Government to say that it is committed to the self-determination of the Saharan people. I do not think that will happen because, for our parliamentary group, unfortunately, there has been a change of position. Furthermore, we think that the new position is difficult to justify, we think so and I say it to you, Mr President, with all the loyalty; first of all, because of the enormous solidarity that exists in Spain with the Saharan people, which I also believe is cross-cutting to all political ideologies, but also for more reasons. Right now, an autocrat, an autocratic, authoritarian regime, has invaded a smaller country. Russia has invaded Ukraine and is violating human rights in Ukrainian territory, and every West agrees that claims of Russian sovereignty over Crimea or Donbas are not legitimate because they violate international law. In the case of the Sahara, we also have an autocratic regime, which is Morocco, which has invaded a smaller country, which is Western Sahara, which is violating human rights in that territory and does not claim sovereignty over a part of the territory but over all of it. We believe that, in the same way that international law is to be defended in Ukraine, it must also be defended in Western Sahara. [[Applauds]] Besides, I think we have a double responsibility. You have quoted the diplomatic position of several European countries, but in our case it is very special. We are the decolonizing power and our position is much more important than the position of Germany or the position of France. I think we need to address more arguments, but I will only put two more on the table. The first you have mentioned it and it has been mentioned a lot these days; it is true that it is a conflict that has been overtaken and that it would be good for you to move forward, this is correct and we share it, and it is certain that the Saharan people also share it, but it is doubtful that a solution of autonomy will solve it; in fact, there is a single precedent of decolonization based on autonomy that went very badly, that is Eritrea. A solution based on autonomy was proposed, and what happened next was that the Ethiopian State suppressed Eritrea's autonomy, there was a bloody war and it ended up declaring Eritrea's independence, that is, it is not clear even in terms of realpolitik, as has been raised here today, that this will lead to a solution to this conflict. Finally, I believe that when a decision by a government raises so little understanding on the part of our country's citizens, when it is so little shared, when it is not understood, I believe that the government has a duty to listen and reflect, and I believe that in this case it should do so, and I also say this to you, Mr President, with all loyalty. Here we have heard, as always, the hyperventilated right and extreme right groups and that, in the face of any discrepancy that we coalition partners have, they intend to break the government, but we intend to take care of the coalition, and I believe that one way to take care of it is that, when we have a discrepancy, let us say it and express it with total loyalty and honesty, and I believe that is what I humbly have just done. Turning to the second issue we are dealing with today, we also believe that taking care of the government coalition is courageous action. That is precisely why we are satisfied with the package of measures that were adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers in the Royal Decree-Law because we believe that they are once again raising a new social shield. From this very rostrum, two years ago, when the pandemic broke out, I remember saying that, for the first time, in addition to being proud of my country, I was proud of my Government. When we see real decrees like yesterday, that sense of pride comes back when a government makes courageous decisions to protect people's lives. As I said before, the same ones that happened during the years 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 screaming that Unido Podemos could not enter the government, after entering the government, have passed 2020, 2021 and what we have been doing since 2022 shouting that Unido Podemos has to leave the government. Why are you doing this? Why is this insistence on shouting, first, that we are not and then that we leave the government? I believe that, seeing the measures in yesterday's royal decree law, it is perfectly understandable why they do not want us within the government. They know perfectly well that with us in the government, measures are going to be taken to protect and improve the lives of people, the lives of most people, and that, which is repeated and repeated and which has already happened many times in this legislature, panics them because that completely disassembles the story, that story that they are good managers, the story that when a political formation like United We can be in the government, chaos will arise. When we take measures like those we took yesterday, it is seen that we govern better than them, and not only that, but we also protect citizens when they are badly given, when there is a pandemic or when there is a war. Frankly, I believe that several of the measures bear the seal of the United Nations We can, and this I say not as a merit, but as a fact and as something that I believe is useful to the coalition. Let us take, for example, the massive intervention of the rental market that was approved in the Royal Decree-Law of yesterday. Does anyone in his or her right mind think that the rent market, one of the most speculative and most money-generating markets in our country, would have been massively involved, if the United We may not be in the government? I think not, and I believe it basically because it was a taboo, it was anathema until a few months ago, and I myself remember negotiations with our partners in which, when we talked about touching the free market in certain sectors, we were told that that was very difficult, but impossible. However, since we ruled we have limited, we have in fact prohibited the sale to losses in the field - that is a market intervention with all those of the law -, we have touched the fallen profits of the electric sky, which are a negative effect of the design of the marginalist market - that is a market intervention with all those of the law - we have limited the price of the masks - that is a market intervention - and now with this real law decree we have carried out a massive intervention of the rental market. I think that today, with the figure of inflation, which is scary, we see perfectly what this means: it would have been absolutely tragic that the rents of the families in Spain would have increased by more than 9% with which it is falling, and precisely with this courageous measure that we have carried out we have managed to avoid that, we have managed that the 10% increase in rents, which can be 60 or 80 euros a month for an average family, does not take place. I also think that when we take courageous measures we also automatically answer a question that is recently on the table, and that is what the new PP is going to do, what Mr Feijoo is going to do. I believe that in the face of a real decree law in which there is a massive intervention of the rental market, something that is radically contrary to the neoliberal ideology of the People's Party, if the PP votes something different to the red button, it will obviously be exercising a tactical vote to try to continue to build this story that Mr Feijoo, even though he has drug traffickers friends, is a very moderate gentleman. [[Strong Protests]] There are pictures.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u26	There are pictures. It's not my opinion, there are pictures. [[Protests.-A Member: Withdraw it!-Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u27	Quiet, please. Mr. Rojas, Mr. Garcés, Mr. Suárez, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u28	There are pictures, as I said. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u30	I continue with the important thing because, after all, Mr Marcial Dorado is not that important either. I continue with what is important, which are the measures that have been adopted in the Royal Decree Act of yesterday. Another important step that we highly appreciate is the progress made in reducing the fallout from the sky for new bilateral contracts. The first royal decree law that was passed on the fallen benefits of heaven was very brave, and so I said in this rostrum, and yet the correction that was published in second place distorted the ability of that measure to lower the bill of light. I think that going back to the reduction of the profits from the sky and also increasing the reduction of charges from 30% to 55% is very good news, it means that people are going to pay less on the bill of light, which, as we all know, is the main reason for the outpouring inflation that we have at the moment, and again it is a measure that obviously cannot be liked by the People's Party because it goes against the profits of the electrics and not against the pocket of the Spanish, as they like to do to them. There are other measures that seem important to us. I am not going to quote them all because they are many and, moreover, the President has commented on them in his speech, but he did want to comment on some. We think it is very important to check for minimum living income, which we have calculated is going to total between 220 euros and 420 euros per family, per beneficiary of the minimum living income. We believe that measures to protect trafficked women in particular or, for example, to incorporate the Ukrainian language in 2016. It seems to us an important advance that the social bonus to pay the bill for light and heating will increase its coverage by six hundred thousand people. We think it's very good news that that's going to happen. We also like it, and it seems appropriate and appropriate at this time that the ERTE mechanism should be re-deployed and that companies receiving public aid should be prohibited from being dismissed because of the increase in the electricity bill, even if Mr Garamendi does not like it. By the way, here I make a brief parenthesis, the argument that if the Minister of Labour thinks that it is not necessary to fire when they receive public aid, then that a company is set up, looks quite like the argument that if you like immigrants so much, put them in your house. I think that Mr Garamendi as head of the employer should have at least a little more argumental level, let's not say a little more empathy with the workers and with the disbursement of public money, a little more just. Finally, we also think that they are appropriate, although we would have liked them to be wider, but we understand that the effort is very important, the direct aid to be given to different sectors - the President mentioned in his speech -: 450 million to the transport sector, 68 million to the fisheries sector or 362 million to small and medium-sized agricultural and livestock producers. We also think that the widespread drop in fuel is a good thing, it is a very important expense for many families and we think that this relief will come very well to many families in our country. In short, as I said at the outset, we believe that a social shield has been raised again in the best tradition of the successes that this Government had at the beginning of the pandemic and that we think that at this difficult time it is once again having. To conclude, I will briefly refer to some missing elements. Firstly, and we have said this many times, we think that at some point the debate on tax reform will have to be addressed. As the People's Party demagogically repeats that taxes must be lowered, we do not know very well whether all or taxes to the millionaires or what, we think that we must raise taxes to the big fortunes and to the big companies, and we think this, in addition to a question of justice, for a question of stability of public accounts. The Government is making very large disbursements of public money, and if we don't increase the country's income, one out of two, they're either going to stop deficit and debt or they're going to stop future cuts, and we think they're two bad choices. That is why we also advocate an increase in income. Secondly - with this I'm finished - the gas cap is missing, which is possibly the most important measure of the whole package when it arrives, because it is the one that can help to lower the outpouring inflation that we have right now by lowering the bill of light. There, from my parliamentary group, we encourage the Government to have a strong position - it has the support of our parliamentary group for this in Europe - in order to try to make that ceiling as low as possible, because the lower that ceiling, the more the rise in gas from the electricity market is going to be disconnected, the more the falling profits from the electric sky are going to be reduced, which have quadrupled its profit in the year 2021, and the lower the bill for the light of families and with it inflation. No more, I'm done. There will have to be a lot of dialogue to bring forward this royal decree law; then we will certainly see it in the interventions of the parliamentary groups that do want to negotiate, not like the two we have heard before. In that regard, the debate may open as to whether these measures should be extended beyond three months. We believe that if the situation continues to be very negative, this extension will have to be considered and, of course, we will contribute with our parliamentary work to try to secure that majority that can validate this very important royal decree law. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations Parliamentary Group, we can-in common May-Galicia in common, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, usually when we come up to this rostrum, it is to say a lot and to doubt and to ask very little. On the other hand, doubt, doubt, question, question is a sign of strength. Doubt is a sign of strength and above all it is a great way of understanding. Sometimes we are understood much more by questioning ourselves and questioning ourselves than by asserting ourselves or speaking for ourselves. So today I'm just going to try to ask quite a few questions and some other suspicion, almost all, I have to confess, for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. So I'm starting, and I'm starting with one that you, Mr. President, took almost an hour to approach, and it's next. Why does the Government defend the right of the Ukrainian people to exist in front of Russia, but not the right of the Saharawi people to exist in front of Morocco? Why? Why are tanks sent to a tyrant like Putin and, instead, letters sent to him - you here have confessed it and it has been published - to another tyrant - is a tyrant - like Mohamed VI, who has been stripping the Sahara for the past forty years? [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr President, why are you talking about agreement between two parties? The Frente Polisario disagrees with this agreement. Why are you talking about agreement between two parties? More questions. Why do Ukrainians deserve more rights than Saharans for the government? We have suspicions. The first is that, probably, while Putin has the gas key for mid-Europe, Mohamed VI has the key that encloses Africa's hunger and despair, which knocks on the doors of southern Europe. For everyone to understand, the government abandons the Sahara, a people, the Saharawi, which has a referendum of self-determination committed to the UN and which has Spanish DNI; this is especially true for those patriots who constantly ask us what they put in your DNI. What does the government do by abandoning this people? It's hard to say, it's dramatic: simply exchange, exchange beginnings for more Moroccan control in the fence in Ceuta and Melilla. That's right. [[Applauds]] And why now? Because the war between Russia and Ukraine is a war between two of the world's leading exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, and in a world where food is listed on the Chicago stock market, a war between these two countries will increase cereal and bread prices by 50%, literally killing thousands of people in Africa with hunger. The Government's support for Rabat's positions is likely to further increase the price of Algerian gas, but when hunger and despair, I repeat, face the fences of Ceuta and Melilla, the Government will be able to split the sticks and rubber balls with the Moroccan gendarmerie. That's right, it's so hard. Gentlemen, you see, geopolitics has reasons that decency doesn't understand. The war is of the rich, the blood is of the poor. By the way, Mr President, it is true that in the face of the invasion of Ukraine we must go beyond the banner - the left are very comfortable on the banner - but let us be clear something too: peace in Ukraine cannot be the peace of cemeteries. [[Applauds]] Putin doesn't stop with tanks, Putin gets close to the fortunes of his oligarchs. By the way, whoever voted against withdrawing the gold medal from the city of Madrid to Putin is VOX; I say this because Putin was a communist. More questions. Why is the energy system marginalistic in this country? Why? I mean, why in this country all energies are paid at the most expensive price, i.e. at the price of gas? For everyone to understand, imagine entering a super, buying onions, buying potatoes, buying eggs and buying you understand, and that when they get to the box everything is covered at the price of the perception. They've hallucinated, haven't they? It's a scam, isn't it? This is the Spanish energy system. The super is the energy market, the perceptives are the gas and the box scam is the bill of light that everyone pays at the end of the month. Why not turn off the onions, potatoes or eggs? Why don't you turn off the gas from the rest of the energies? [[Applauds]] We have suspicions. It probably has to do with the fact that it was left for forty years in the hands of those who seek benefits only an essential right such as energy, and it also has to do with the fact that two former presidents and thirty former ministers have also sat for forty years on boards of directors. Mr President, you got the other day, along with your Portuguese counterpart, exceptions for Spain, good exceptions for Spain. Turn off the price of gas and light should be the main one. The result of privatizing and commercializing essential public services is simply that they become privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, in this country, heating it up cannot be for thousands of families almost like eating truffles every day. [[Applauds]] It can't be. More questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, why do they increase minimum living income by 15% only until 30 June? Is the war over in July? Is the crisis over in July? Why subject people to this uncertainty in times of so much uncertainty? And, above all, why not also increase the remaining essential benefits by 15%? Why not raise, for example, 15% of non-contributory pensions to people, because it is the people who receive it who need it most. More questions. Why limit rent price increases to only 2% until 30 June? Why? Is the crisis over in July? Is the war over in July? Why equip people with even more uncertainty in times of so much uncertainty? And, above all, why do they copy measures from the Catalan law on rental regulation while trying to break down the competences of the Catalan law on rental regulation? [[Applauds]] It is not nationalism, ladies and gentlemen, it is law; by the way, a law also passed by the PSC in the Parliament of Catalonia. More questions. Why are they talking now - and it is well-spoken - about curbing abusive redundancies, when just over a month ago they have missed the historic opportunity - and had the numbers to do so - of really curbing abusive redundancies with labour reform? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are extremely pleased that there is more and more indefinite in this country, I can assure you. The question we ask them is: What good is it that I have been so indefinite if it costs the same thing to fire him as a temp? What's the point? I say to him: That according to whom he boasteth every month of what statistics. No more or less. [[Applauds]] More questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, why do you always look at the taxes of the poor and never talk about the taxes of the rich? Why not tax now - now that it is egg - the great profits of the electrics and the oil companies or the great fortunes of this country? I give you an example, Mrs.Ana Patricia Botín the other day said that in order to fight against what was going on she told her assistant to lower the heating of the palace to 17 degrees. Okay. Why not raise the taxes 17 points? Why not? Let those who have more contribute a little more in times like this, more than anything because there are Seat workers who pay the same taxes as Ana Patricia Botín in this country, and I think it should be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, this time, this country, this situation will not be resolved by the public deficit check; this time, this country and this situation will only be resolved by structural and non-council changes: energy autonomy, decarbonisation of the economy, social justice and public intervention. Giving absolute freedom to money has been proven to be totally incompatible with giving absolute freedom to people. Totally. More questions. Why is 95% of freight transport by road in a country with one of the largest rail networks in Europe? Why? Does the solution of problems in the short-term transport sector require more public aid? Yes, yes, we agree. But in the medium and long term? No, no, The solution to the problems of the transport sector has a name and is called conversion: from asphalt, from road to train and railway. And that, a progressive government, a courageous government should say so. By the way, a curiosity: Why is there a gentleman every day on TV, surrounded by transporters, giving lessons in workers' struggle policies? A gentleman who's from VOX, who doesn't pay his workers and who doesn't even have a truck card. Why? [[Applauds]] Probably for the same reasons we know much more than they pay for their Montero and Iglesias house than they do for their Espinosa de los Monteros house. [[Applauds]] Probably for the same reasons. Because, ladies and gentlemen, probably the left is not that it has lost the street, probably the left has simply lost the great media in this country. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, journalism is not to say that there is a protest on the street; journalism is to say that there is a protest on the street and that there are 'fachalecos', with yellow vests above, taking advantage of it. More questions. Why does the state pay for the 20 cents of the 15-litre gasoline bonus and only 5 oil tankers? Repsol won only EUR 25 billion last year, only last year. Do you not think, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that we should invent, we should think, we should legislate in some way for the oil companies, so that the big electric companies will also contribute a little bit more? There is a double dependence in this country on energy: satraps and fuel running out. Oil goes up in the war? Yes, oil goes up in the war, but above all, oil goes up because there is less and it is increasingly difficult to extract it. It is therefore urgent to legislate in favour of and promote alternative energy sources, renewable energy sources. By the way, the People's Party and VOX - the right and the right - say that the government is in line with gas and light taxes. It should be remembered that tax collection goes to the public administrations to pay for education, health care, public services. In fact, more than half of these taxes are going to stop at autonomies, many of which, unfortunately, are governed by the People's Party. But do you know why this is said by the right and the right? Because they're super used to looting public money. [[Applauds]] And don't be afraid to say it, don't be afraid to say it, don't be afraid to put face on them. Above all, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it does not stop to the right doing right. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. That the right and the right want - and they do, and they do well - to capitalize the goat that is in the street does not take away that there is goat in the street. Prices have risen three times over wages over the past year. The right and the right, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, cannot steal from us on the left the ability to outrage us in the face of a terribly outrageous reality. Last week I told them that the left, that the left had to stop being military exclusively in morale and start military in utility. Do you know what that means, now that I have a little more than two minutes? Do you know how to stop right and right? Filling people's refrigerator, I repeat, filling people's refrigerator. [[Applauds]] There's no more. And from there, let's talk. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is not a natural state, it is not a mathematical formula, it is not a sun that rises and sets every day. Ladies and gentlemen, every democratic resignation we make has a cost. Democracy is defended every day. Do you know why the right and the right have declared war on democracy? Because they, in any case, their children and their daughters always give them money and privileges. [[Applauds]] The poor are rights and laws, good laws, democratic laws. Let's defend him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Nogueras i Camero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u34	Thank you, President. The war has precipitated what many of us knew would happen, and it gives us the feeling that you have not finished preparing. I remember you saying two years ago, Mr Sánchez, that you would face the crisis in a very different way from how the previous government faced it. Rajoy was wrong, and I think you're wrong, too. Both have made complex decisions, and while other countries make quick decisions - they do make quick decisions - Spain always has to wait for someone to give it permission. We cannot deny that this Government has presented many measures over these two years, and today you have recalled some of them, but I believe that time has shown the lack of effectiveness of the vast majority of them, and these new shock measures that have presented us are no exception. June 30th doesn't end anything. We'd like to know what plan they have from 30. You announce a 15% increase in the minimum living income. Good, but for 60% of those who have not yet received the income they have to receive, the 15% increase in zero is still zero. What measures does this Government have in mind to unblock this situation? About the gas, I'll make a quick comment. The most expensive technology to make electricity is no longer going to set the price. In an ideal market free of oligopolies, this would be good news, but I remind everyone that we are in the Kingdom of Spain and, therefore, we look forward to knowing who will end up setting prices and how when the European Commission approves - hopefully it will be sooner than later - the measure you announced. On the EUR 16 billion of aid, if you really want to help small and medium-sized enterprises, why do you still not deal with the big problem of late payment? You were talking about liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises. More than EUR 80 billion of liquidity for SMEs is at stake. This would actually help small and medium-sized enterprises, but I am afraid that you only legislate for large enterprises, and the fact that the large enterprise is represented in what you say social dialogue, but in this social dialogue there is no small and medium-sized enterprise and the self-employed makes it meridianly clear. But let's go back to EUR 16 billion. Of these EUR 16 billion, EUR 10 billion are loans, i.e. they have to be repaid. Some data that should have been taken into account before the adoption of these measures: 48 % of Catalan companies are not in a position to return ICOs; in 2008, 25 % of Catalan SMEs had a debt of 90 %, and none of them survived; in 2021, more than 75 000 self-employed people have made up less than EUR 5000 a year. Of the previous direct aid, you have not granted half of it. They don't make it easy, Mr. President. They're not doing well. And not only do I tell them, they're yelling at them; small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people can no longer be in debt. When they lower their income, they lower their income, and when they lower their income, they lower the income of any administration; and I remind you that Spain's debt is already 123%, and today we knew that inflation is 9.8%, the highest level since 1985. If you want to give help, let Montoro press the help button as it does the collect button, because, so far, the only thing you have extended is headlines, not checks. And it ended with the Sahara. The Sahara, Mr Sánchez, symbolizes two very concrete things for the Kingdom of Spain: the disregard for fundamental rights and international law and its collaboration with the corrupt oligarchic elites of the Spanish court. This is the reason why Spain colonized the Sahara, how it colonized it and, above all, how it left it. Spain, whether you like it or not, continues to be today the administering power of the Sahara, according to the United Nations, and also confirmed by the Spanish National Audience in 2014. These reasons also explain the last position of his Government, the last position of the Kingdom of Spain. The story repeats itself. Unfortunately, betrayal is repeated. And I remind you that the Kingdom of Spain has a legal and political obligation to ensure the effective self-determination of the Saharan people. I'm on my way. When others skip international legality, Mr Sánchez, all of you run, all of you jump, you appear specifically and your party presents a lot of initiatives, but when it is you, when it is the Kingdom of Spain that skips international legality, you do not consider a specific appearance opportune. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u36	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I shall start quickly with the problem of Sahara. We had asked for your appearance on this, but I denote a certain paradox. You're claiming us unity for the crash plan, and I don't think you're going to get it, though I think you can get a large majority. He claims unity and, on the other hand, with the subject of the Sahara he has made some determinations for free without consenting to anyone. He's alone, he only has his parliamentary group. I think that should be an element of reflection. [[The Lord]] In any case, I ask you only one thing, to tell us from this rostrum whether the Government, if the Spanish State continues to recognize the right of self-determination of the Sahara. If he goes up and says yes, he recognizes it, I think he'll leave us more quiet, beyond the letters. With regard to the shock plan, I would like to make it clear that the Government has made an effort to speak with the parliamentary groups, to receive proposals and to incorporate some, and we should be grateful for that. Then, I'm going to give you a thought about this, but in any case, we're going to support this shock plan. We do not share it 100%; we understand that there are some things that are going to seriously harm, but we do appreciate some positive aspects. I would like to acknowledge to Minister Planas the effort that has been made with the primary sector, embodied in Titles II and III, with those ten articles, and in the 430 million, which I believe are very well implemented. The livestock sector, the fisheries sector and the agricultural sector will recognise this - I hope - and this parliamentary group is also grateful for it. On the other hand, Article 44, which, theoretically, prohibits dismissal, I think it has a lot of political marketing content among us. One thing has been sold, but when you read article 44 it says: well, you want to sell it like this, but don't worry about Mr. Garamendi because things don't go that way. And everything beyond the opinion of Mr Pablo Echenique, of which I obviously disagree. I don't understand article 46. Article 46 talks about limiting rents to 2%, something Mr Pablo Echenique is also very proud of. You'll have to explain the effects it has. Two percent. Why 2%? Why not the 3rd? Why not the 4th? Three months. Why three months? Why not six months? Definitively? Do you know the distortion that you are generating in the housing rental market throughout the Spanish state? Are you conscious? Beyond the housing law. Why do they limit rent and not limit any other rent? Is that what they're going to fight against inflation? Is this going to combat the precariousness of rent in the Spanish state? I think it's an absolute mistake. It will be an assignment, as Mr Pablo Echenique has said, but it will be harmful. I am making a final reflection, Mr President. Look, the situation is complicated, and it is because of 9.8% inflation, but I want to remind you that in December last year inflation was already 6.5%. Since May last year, in the different appearances of the economic leaders and also of the governor of the Banco de España, he has shown my concern about the evolution of inflation and the differential with the rest of Europe. I believe that today or when they validate the royal decree they will have ample support for this royal decree law. They also had it in the first state of alarm - remember - and in the first royal decrees to combat the crisis of the COVID, but the weeks passed and the support went down. Some thought will have to be given, because the Government will also be responsible for this. Let them not pass over the next few weeks, because they will have to take action and they will be difficult measures, because the crisis will not end, even if the war is over. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u37	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sanchez, you appear here on two matters that have nothing to do with each other, which are mixed up. I am going to divide my speech, as it could not be otherwise, between the two issues, but I have to say that it did not seem to me a good idea to combine the two issues. It's possible that someone from Moncloa seemed like a brilliant idea, a master move, mixing two things and covering one with the other. In my opinion, the opposite is true, because bringing together two matters of such a different nature is very clear when someone is very proud of one matter and when they are less so than the other. When you got a big deal for our country last Friday at the European Council the press met you very soon and you appeared at the press conference almost immediately, because they were proud and wanted to tell you, and rightly so. With the Sahara, however, things have been rather different. The Spaniards found out about Morocco and we had to wait two weeks for you to make this appearance and give explanations. In my opinion, that is the behavior of someone who is not so proud of this second decision. Why aren't you so proud? Firstly, because this is a political bandit in a state policy and political bandits are not done this way, they are not done without informing the parties, they are not done without informing the House, they are not done without informing the media and they are not done from day to day, without giving explanations. Secondly, because this decision turns its back on the Saharan people, on the solidarity that the Spaniards have always shown with the Saharan people, and on the very clear UN resolutions establishing the right to self-determination of the Saharan people. Thirdly, because you have not yet said in exchange for what, you have not said what Morocco has committed to. And the worst part is that you wouldn't put your hand in the fire for Morocco that it's going to fulfill what it's supposed to be committed to. That is why this second agreement is expressed in such a different way from the first. The comparison is not good. With regard to the first agreement, the Government achieved an important victory for the whole country last Friday in Europe. It has been very ironic to see the right, who usually have the word Spain permanently in their mouths, muted suddenly when the government conquers energy sovereignty for our country in order to put order in the energy market and end the abuses. That silence of the right has an explanation, and it is very clear, because the contrast is shameful: it turns out that the government goes to Europe and gets sovereignty for our whole country and the right-wing leaders when they have gone to Europe has been to ask for Spain not to be given money, not to be given aid and ransacked. The Government has achieved an important margin for our country, and it is now up to us to use it in two ways. Firstly, this crisis, although precipitated by the war, is not short-term, it is structural. The crisis of the energy model is not short-term, it did not start with the war and it is not going to end the war; it has come to stay. The measures that end our dependence on gas and oil must therefore be structural. Secondly, the social issue. Last week we said this crisis was a moment of fork. What does that mean? Which is a time to choose. Governments, in the good, can please everyone, but governments, in the bad, have to choose, and this is a time to choose. To choose means, basically, to face what you have not appointed in the appearance, but which, in our opinion, is the elephant in the Chamber: who is going to pay for all this? I'll give you an example. The last measures to subsidise fuels involve a subsidy of up to 20 cents per litre, but it turns out that the oil companies, to which you have thanked them, put 5 cents and the whole of the Spaniards put 15 cents, which go immediately to the oil companies. When are they going to pay for oil or electricity? The Government can't do everything, but what it can do is not go wrong sharing the burdens. People have already borne too many burdens and the government has to stand firm for a very simple thing, to protect the weak and to pay the strong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u39	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, after enduring months and months of VOX devoting all kinds of improvisations to us, I believe that with what happened yesterday at Madrid City Hall we can say loud and clear that VOX is Putin. Now we go to the decree. Mr Sánchez, was it necessary to wait until yesterday to take measures that have nothing to do with Europe? We would have saved days of conflict and Manolin, the truckless truck driver who doesn't pay his workers, wouldn't have done a single interview. We must wait to make a restful reading of the decree, but it is difficult to oppose it, and I say so sincerely. It is difficult to oppose a whole series of measures that are deployed and that can ultimately help our citizens and our businesses. In addition, we are grateful that our suggestion has been accepted, that there should be aid for companies, especially for those who use gas intensively, such as the Castellón blue industry or the electro-intensive ones. But these companies - they already say -, rather than aid what they need is for the price of gas to be capped in order to be viable and to maintain production and jobs. Mr Sánchez, I think it is complicated days, but it is days when this government has to have courage and clarity to take the measures that once and for all lower gas, electricity and fuel prices - we are already seeing up today - so that companies can absorb that 5 cents. The citizens are waiting for him; they are waiting for this government to be brave and stand by those who really need it. Today inflation has risen to 9.8%. You are presenting measures, but apart from these measures we must work seriously to ensure that the purchasing power of the workers is guaranteed. Those would be the best measures. With regard to energy, it must, once and for all and decisively, promote self-consumption and energy communities and create favourable legal frameworks for all this. I'm going to the Sahara. I had the opportunity to visit the Sahara a few years ago, and what I saw with my own eyes will not be told to me by anyone: repression; natural resources squandered; violent repression of demonstrators, and older people who taught us their national identity document without understanding their abandonment by the authorities and the international community, feeling foreigners in their own land. They do not understand the change of position of this Government. The compromise is clear: it is on the side of United Nations resolutions 1514 and 1541, which recognize the legitimate right of self-determination and therefore the legitimate right of the Saharan people to decide their own future. By the way, warning sailors, yesterday Algeria declared strategic its relationship with Italy in the midst of the gas crisis; today it has suspended flights with Iberia and repatriations. To the best of my knowledge, few words are enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u41	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, inflation in the Spanish State closed in 2012 at 6.5%; in Galicia, by the way, at 6.7%. I begin with this fact to point out that the brutal price escalation, which was aggravated by the crisis in Ukraine, came much earlier, but also to remind him that his Government is going too late to take measures that no longer prevent the macroeconomic consequences of this situation, but, above all, the impoverishment of the popular classes, of the most vulnerable sectors of society. Moreover, it seems to us that there is a lack of determination and courage to make really necessary decisions, because we see that they remain in short-term measures, which may be fine - even if some are too limited - but they do not face structural reforms, which are really needed, especially in the energy field. The BNG is clear. Public intervention is needed in the electricity sector to stop the obscene benefits of large electricity; by 2021, only the three large, they obtained €65 billion in benefits, while millions of people have difficulty paying for electricity. We have to go to a new regulation of the electricity sector that ends with the marginalist system and sets prices according to the actual costs of production, set up public enterprises or set a differentiated tariff for surplus producers, in our case a Galician electricity tariff that compensates Galicia for the social and environmental costs of that condition as a producer country. As a matter of urgency, beyond delinking gas from prices in the wholesale market, it is necessary to set maximum prices, both for electricity and for hydrocarbons. We have already been able to see how a flat-rate aid, such as the one announced, can be quickly mocked by an unjustified new price rise. The government increases 20 cents, we climb 30 cents and we win another 10 cents. It is essential to revalue pensions and wages, starting with the minimum ones, in order to avoid the loss of purchasing power, as well as social aid. By the way, we consider it insufficient to increase the minimum income by 15 %, which is vital and unjustified, above all, the three-month period, as well as to limit the rent increase by 2 %. And deep tax reform is also needed for fairer and more redistributive taxation. We also believe that there is an urgent need for a genuine rescue plan for the most affected sectors, and in the case of Galicia, in addition to transport, in particular the agri-farm and fisheries sectors. In short, we believe that the Government must go further and take further steps to address the consequences of this situation. Mr President, in relation to NATO, no. In the face of rampant bellicism, the BNG continues to bet on peace and peaceful ways of dialogue and negotiation, which are the ones that will eventually open up the way, and we hope it will be sooner than later to end so much suffering and so much pain. On the question of Sahara, Mr Sánchez, the BNG clearly rebuts the decision to change the official position of the Spanish State, without changing it, even if you deny it. He asks, curiously, to defend Ukraine, but here he supports the Moroccan invader. This is also outside the scope of United Nations resolutions and efforts to hold a referendum on self-determination, which has been delayed since it was agreed thirty years ago in 1992 and a decolonization process that should have taken place in 1975. This change of position is serious and must be rectified as soon as possible. It was done without consulting the House - apparently not even the entire Government - and, of course, from behind the feeling of the majority of society and the peoples of the Spanish State. I can assure you that support for the self-determination of the Sahara and for the independence of the Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic is an absolute majority in Galicia, where, moreover, many institutions have spoken in this regard, among others, the Galician Parliament, on the occasion of various institutional declarations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u43	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u44	Finished. We call upon you, Mr Sánchez, to rectify and focus your efforts on supporting the UN resolutions on the decolonization of Sahara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u45	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u46	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr President, and welcome to the Congress of Deputies, because this place, representing sovereignty, where all the starting points of the decisions that will affect the general interests should be taken, for you is always the final milestone of a parade for breakfasts, for press conferences without uncomfortable questions from journalists or for television sets, when these kinds of issues that we are going to talk about here today should also start here, talking to all parliamentary groups. This is the seat of sovereignty, not the rendition of the President of the Government. This is where you consult, where you talk, where you discuss, where you support or not certain proposals, you improve, you vote. This is not, as you ask us in your speech, a back-up dispenser, a coming here to ask for unconditional adherence to the previously adopted by you. Does it not really seem to you that the political leadership of the nation should be here, and not in an informative breakfast, when we have a war in Europe, when we have the prices opened up, when you go to the European Council without agreeing any position on Spain and when you, in twenty-four hours, take an absolute turn to an international policy of Spain that has been in force fifty years in a row? Which of these four themes deserves a monographic plenary session? The Four. You, however, come here mixing these four issues and, on top of that, you have the defachability, I tell you with all respect, to say at the start of your parliament: be patient with me, that I will be very long in the exhibition. I have only twenty minutes, and I would therefore like, as other representatives of parliamentary groups have also said, to have four separate plenary sessions for these four issues, not that you dilute the problems with each other. I'm really sorry to have to start like this, because the last time I addressed you from this rostrum I congratulated you on the rectification of Ukraine's policy for sending you weapons. I would really like you to understand what it is to make opposition responsible and not confuse some opposition groups with others. What we do is not for the government to go wrong, it is for the Spaniards to go well, and I hope that the government will always be right, because its successes would be the Spanish's successes. We have reached out to him to be able to rule Spain conservative, liberal and social democrats, as in Europe. We, at the meeting we had with Mr Bolaños and Mrs Rivera, went with a role full of proposals. When you say what needs to happen in order for us to have unity, I hope that you will not refer to Citizens for their response in the pandemic with regard to confinements or the negotiation of the State General Budgets so that they do not raise taxes with Podemos or with regard to the approval of labour reform, which their government partners did not want to approve. This is a sense of state, this is responsibility for Spain, this is responsible opposition, and what you do when you bring these four issues together, with the limitation of the times we have in opposition, is a lack of respect for the democratic system. That's what I'm telling you. [[Applauds]] And do not come to issue cards of better and worse patriot to those who are closer or further away from their positions. Do not ask us for heights of sight to the opposition when you do not show the same height of sight. Don't come and examine the opposition when you should take a conscientious examination, because you are the one who is accountable here, not the opposition is the one who is accountable to you. This from Congress is not an administrative procedure of a procedure that is annoying with respect to which you come here moaning, dragging your feet and annoying. It's not that, it's accountability to sovereignty. It would also be grateful if before you come here with your royal decrees - I think we are going for a hundred and fifteen in the legislature - you agreed with the opposition. Indeed, you believe little in the parliamentary system, so don't ask us for patriotism when you with your facts don't prove it, when you come here just to ask for support and adhesions, blank checks. You asked a question in your exhibition that I'm going to answer. You have referred to what has to happen in order for us to be united. Well, look, I'm telling you clearly: first, sit down and get agreements and then ask for unity. You cannot come here with a unilateral position that we give you our adherence, that we surrender at your feet, that we give you blank checks. That's what you can't order under the drive label. [[Applauds]] And we don't just ask him for explanations, we also ask him for behaviors and actions. The last stage of his star tour is here at the Congress of Deputies. You publish this morning in the State Official Gazette a royal decree law of one hundred and fifty pages and in one month you have not taken a single measure of what we and the rest of the parliamentary groups have proposed, and in sixteen hours you want us to give a blank cheque to that royal decree law. We are the last to take action, but on top of that, we do it without learning anything from the rest of the countries that have taken these measures, and you allow yourself the luxury of fooling the Spaniards by saying that the blame for everything is the Putin war. As I said before, nine months ago the Spaniards already paid a record price for light, in October 2021 inflation was 5.5 and today it is 9.8, but what matters is that it is 2 points above the European average. It's just that we're always the worst. It turns out that last year inflation was 32% higher than the euro area and is currently 20% higher than the euro area. We have higher inflation than Germany, when Germany depends on Russian gas, and we have twice as much inflation as Portugal. But Mr Putin, not the Government of Spain, is guilty of all this. We have proposed to you and we propose solutions. The first thing - they have also told you - is to adjust the rate of the IRPF to inflation. Today we are 9.8% poorer, but if wages rise by 2%, being poorer, Hacienda collects more. I mean, we have less money in our pocket and we have to pay more taxes. Secondly, we have told you that you are sitting with the groups at a table for energy that is bet on the energies that are allowed in European energy taxonomy, including nuclear energy. What, that Belgium, the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Finland, is even thinking about Germany, for betting on nuclear energy are ecocidated people, enemies of the environment? But already in anticipation of what was coming, in this year's General State Budgets we already proposed vouchers for young people in the payment of rent, double the research in science and research for the hybridization of parks, for the storage of energy, for the installation of solar plates and that we had to lower taxes, but you vetoed all the measures in December 2021. Indeed, it seems that the pandemic, war and inflation are inevitable catastrophes that affect all the countries in our environment, but they always affect us more; we are always worse than the rest of the countries in our environment. Why? Why is that? Because we do not have the duties done, because during all this time the Government has not taken action and - yes, I am telling you again, as I told you last time - because we are in the Government, and so we cannot take the measures that the rest of the countries in our environment are taking. You know that. In a government without populists and nationalists we would have come to this crisis much better, with the measures best adapted, but, above all, we would have arrived before, because if it has not taken the measures before it has been because of the fear it has of the reaction of its government partners. We are already carrying the financial crisis that the People's Party had to throw out and now we have the pandemic crisis and the war crisis. Indeed, the two parties of bipartisanism would have to start thinking about how crises affect them, because both in one crisis and the other it turns out that we lose the greatest amount of gross domestic product in our environment and have the greatest loss of employment. The truth is that bipartisanism has always been a ballast for this country. [[Applauds]] And meanwhile, Italy, France, Germany, Portugal, Belgium, Ireland, Poland, all these countries take action, lower taxes on light. Belgium gives 200 euros of heating and extends ten years the useful life of nuclear power plants; in France, 35 cents to transporters, aids to the vehicle and fifty-eight nuclear power plants. We bought his energy and took the French nuclear waste. Ireland also lowers taxes on fuels; Italy, 25 cents of reductions in petrol and gas VAT; in Portugal, 30 cents per litre of petrol and 20 euros for fuels; in the Netherlands, two new nuclear power plants will be built. Are these gentlemen anti-European? Have these countries taken these measures in contravention of European legislation? Or are you lying to us when you tell us that you had to go to Europe in order to take these measures? Do you wish to reply, please, in reply, to the measures of your royal decree law, what measures have placet, consent, consent of the European Union? Which ones couldn't be adopted before you went to Europe to take the picture? He stands up from the table to look like he's a president of the energetic government. Sure! The Iberian exception, the Spanish exception, what is it? It's about not taking action! In your speech, in your speech, you said so yourself; you acknowledged that it was not necessary to go to Europe to adopt these measures of the royal decree law. Italy, France, Germany, Portugal, Belgium, Ireland and Poland had already adopted them. What I do want to ask is one thing. I would like to ask you, then, when things go wrong - which I want them to go well - not to blame Europe, because that would be to feed your government partner and all the groups that in this House, unlike Social Democrats, Conservatives and Liberals, are frankly anti-European. We have asked nothing more than the measures that the rest of Europe has taken. You and you left the summit of La Palma very hungry, promising you that you would lower taxes, but the next day Yolanda Díaz left and said to lower taxes, not talk. [[pointing to the left and right of the Chamber]] Where are the tax breaks? You fooled the People's Party at the summit in La Palma. You still do not reduce the bureaucratic expenditure of the Administration, with your twenty-two ministries, with the thousands of advisers, and you still do not bet on nuclear energy. And why don't they lower taxes, don't lower advisors, don't they bet on nuclear power? Because they have Podemos in government. You have a star measure, which is that of 20 cents per litre of gasoline, which means that when the litre reaches 3 euros the litre of gasoline will cost 2.80. Well, if you had lowered fuel taxes, the higher the price, the more savings Spanish families would have, because the tax is proportional. And they've also told you before, what's going to happen in three months? In three months' time, and I wish I was wrong - I am wishing I were wrong about what I am going to tell you - you will have to come here again, you will have to take some of the measures that the countries in our environment have taken, but then, in addition, we will be in a worse situation than today. That's the problem. I was at the meeting with Mr. Bolaños and Mrs. Ribera. Mrs Rivera told me clearly that nuclear power is not, thank you; that is, I was like a demonstration on the left of the 1970s, when Germany is thinking about it, when the Netherlands will build two nuclear power plants, when France, Sweden, the United Kingdom or Finland are betting on nuclear energy. You get the last one and you don't learn from others. And then, in that mixture, in that mix of issues that brings us, which has practically turned this into a debate about the state of the nation, brings us the turn in Spanish foreign policy for fifty years with Western Sahara and Morocco. You have already been read before, but for you - in your letter to Mohamed VI - the Moroccan autonomy plan is the most serious, credible and realistic basis for overcoming the impasse in this autonomous territory, and this is what you say on 14 March. Is this what you intended to declare secret by the Council of Ministers? I mean, if it's not for Morocco, when were you gonna tell us? When were you gonna tell us this? Or is this a secret, the 50-year turn with the same policy, in which Spain continued to conform to the resolutions of the United Nations on the process of decolonization of a territory on which we are administering power? When were you going to tell us about this? Because, either Morocco tells us, or you don't seem to want to tell us. In international politics - and when I speak of myself, I speak of the liberals, of my group, of Citizens - we tend to want to be with the government because we care about the good international name of Spain. And I thought, well, they'll have a plan; something will win Spain; what will we have taken out Morocco? And it turns out that Morocco continues to say today that Ceuta and Melilla are part of Morocco's territory and do not, of course, renounce any claim to the sovereignty of the Canary Islands' territorial waters. And on top of that, we're leaving the ambassador of Algeria. And, above all, they want us to raise the price of gas in the price review clause of the contract we have with them. And on top of that, we're not allowed to repatriate the irregulars. And above that, Iberia's flights to Algeria are suspended. And this is a historic play for you, really? A historic play that leads the poor Foreign Minister on a Friday night in Barcelona to have to improvise a press conference in view of this situation of the historic play. [[Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, Albares Well, he makes negative gestures]] He's telling me not with his head, but I'm convinced he didn't even know the letter you sent to Mohamed VI. So, is this Spain not moving from its position or is this a historic move? Has anything changed or nothing changed? Because if nothing has changed, what to celebrate Morocco?Why is Algeria angry?Why are we here talking about this? And if it's a historic move, why did all the groups in this House, at the Spokesman's Meeting last Tuesday, have to drag you in to talk about the Sahara here? Well, everyone, no; We can, no. We can that day fell on the Board of Spokesmen; then in the afternoon he pulled out the flag here at the Congress of Deputies - which they must have forgotten today -. But nothing happens because they fix the problem; I don't know if they know that on next week's plenary agenda comes a non-law proposal from Podemos on the Sahara. I believe that with that everything is arranged, all its problems with the Government of Spain. And you say before, quite rightly, that this is a matter of state, that this is a policy of state. Sure! But what do you mean by a state policy? What is a state policy to you? Come here and let's all say yes? You don't talk to your government partner; you don't talk to opposition groups; you don't tell the Spaniards anything; you don't even tell the countries that are interested in Western Sahara anything. You betray everyone's trust and say that you have to have a high eye and that you have to live up to the times, the history, the responsibility. You in the replica could come up here and tell me: Mr. Bal, I do state policy because the state is me! Like King Sun, indeed. [[Applauds]] That is what you must understand by state policy. Do not tell me that you are controlling the flow of migration because, indeed, my soul is falling to my feet; that is, you are surrendering to Spain in the face of the blackmail of Morocco on which the European Union has even warned the Kingdom of Morocco for using minors as a form of pressure on the Spanish Government at the border. Morocco, as soon as it has something to ask of Spain, will again press with the migratory flow. And, of course, what is unacceptable is that before adopting this historic turn in Spanish international policy they did not speak to Algeria. Mr Alvarez first said yes; then Algeria said no, and then Mr Alvarez had to admit that they had not spoken to Algeria. You manage what is of everyone without counting on anyone. You are the one who owes us loyalty to the opposition groups to agree on these state policies. Then you come here, you get angry because we criticize you and ask us for unconditional adherence, when you don't even seek consensus. Of course, today's example is that of education. We are demanding a state pact for education and you unilaterally take the Philosophy out of the school curriculum and remove the numeric notes in the ESO, apart from telling the story as you want. The Iberian exception is the Spanish exception. Why? Because in Europe there is no government where the communists are in government, because there is no one who supports populists and nationalists; because there is no one who opposes Ukraine; because there is no one who does not take action; because there are no governments as huge as the one we have. That's why we're the exception. And I tell you, I have already told you: we are a great country, we only need a great government, and this government can only be reached with conservatives, liberals and social democrats, as you do when you go to the European Councils. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u48	Thank you very much. Mr President, you should have come face-to-face here last Wednesday, Wednesday of the previous week, and now it turns out that we are going to talk about Sahara, Ukraine and economic measures in twenty minutes. He says it's a new step. Well, just to be a new step in the same direction Algeria has withdrawn the ambassador and today has already announced new measures, so I do not think that everyone understands that this is just a new step. Were you going to tell us anything about this? I don't think so, because we had a question in the Senate about the last assaults on the Melilla fence and we were expressly asked to delay it. Would they have informed us of anything? Surely not, because we have learned from the letter sent by you to the king of Morocco. By the way, do you have a letter that the king of Morocco has sent to you with his position and his commitments? The foreign minister and you say we had to put an end to the tension, but who caused the tension? If this conflict lasts for forty-six years, it is because Morocco has boycotted the solutions and the ability to make a referendum. I remind you that of those thirteen special envoys proposed by the United Nations, eleven have been rejected by Morocco; eleven. If that's not trouble... Morocco has used migration crises to its liking, even pressured and managed to stop a minister from another country. With regard to the letter sent to you, what is the goal, for what, what do you want to face? They say: especially cooperation in the management of migratory flows. Especially, they say so, that's the concern. In addition, Spain considers the Moroccan autonomy proposal of 2007 as the most - more - serious, credible and realistic basis. Both multilateralism in the mouth and suddenly act unilaterally, and they do so using the same language, as Trump did through a tweet - which later Biden has not rectified -, using words as it would be, credible, realistic... It says: France says so too, and Germany. But Spain is not France, because France has always been next to Morocco and the Majzen. Spain has other commitments and responsibilities. Why now? Not out of magnanimity. Why now? For the waves, for the pressure of Morocco and for the pressure of the United States, which does not want a southern front. Because, indeed, as I have already pointed out on other occasions from this rostrum, Russia, including China, are taking positions within Africa. And don't tell me the visit of number two of American foreigners was a mere coincidence. And they join the Moroccan position, which is either autonomy or nothing, so that they are recognizing Morocco's sovereignty over Sahara, something that is not recognized in international instruments. Break the resolutions, also 602, which provides for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara within the framework of the provisions, in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. I will read literally: 'Spain cannot and must not advocate a concrete solution, but it must be the parties that, with the support of the UN, find a solution'. This was said by the spokesman for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the Senate just a year ago. Well, as you have moved from that balance, which clearly also includes the possibility of an independence referendum, to position yourself in favour of one side. A part that says autonomy. But, listen, do you have any guarantees when you reject the visits of the deputies and senators of the Courts, when human rights are not respected and those who try to defend and demand them are harassed, when dissidents are imprisoned, when the territory is colonized and when people and children of their own country are used as weapons at the border? If you really wanted to take a step - and I do not deny that geopolitics has changed and that the Saharans may have been little predictor as to how the rest of the international actors were moving - but the position of Spain has to be as a former colonizing power that has a number of responsibilities. If you had wanted to help with a solution, you would, of course, have spoken with the Saharan representatives and would have arbitrated a solution so that they could have a force to find that solution, but you, simply, plainly and plainly, for short-term interests, have aligned yourselves with Morocco. I'm done with this. There is much talk in this Chamber by the Government of historical memory and democratic memory. Well, the Sahara is also a historical memory and should be a democratic memory. There are some responsibilities. If we talk about memory, we talk about everything and we can't suddenly escape for a short-term interest that, moreover, I insist, neither has any guarantee. I already know what realpolitik is and I understand it, but a foreign policy, however realpolitik may be, must have some soul, and having a soul is not simply to say that humanitarian aid is going to be given. I understand that they do not have it, but we will see it, because initiatives will be submitted here and we will see if they have the majority of this House, but I do not think so. Let's go to Ukraine. You, following the Ukrainian crisis, have arbitrated a temporary solution and I think it is correct, although some are calling for a more structural, tax-based solution, etc., which requires going through this House. And going down normally is usually easy, but when you have to go up because the weather has changed, it could be a lot harder. I understand this support system. With regard to Ukraine, we must maintain the measures, the economic sanctions on Russia. How war ends depends on our future. If Russia, even if it is failing on the ground, sells internally as a victory any result, it will mean a strengthening of the regime, which meant for Europe and its security bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. This is no longer a government of oligarchs, as was the Soviet Union; this is an autocratic regime with a name and surname. I also invite you to continue, and the European Council has pointed out, with the strategic compass. In mid-May there will be the report, the preparation of rapid response units, more integration, which I believe is an issue on which we are lagging behind and which needs to be addressed. We have come from a crisis, that of COVID, in which structural measures have not been taken swiftly; yes, a number of aid has been given, but concrete and effective measures to change our economic structure are slowly developing in this management of funds. Now comes the war and reinforces the crisis, let us hope to be short-term, but Europe should review the timelines of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and the Next Funds. Perhaps in Europe itself we should be obliged to review it. To check it out for why? In time, because perhaps the projects cannot be carried out so soon, and even the objectives, because we may have to focus on some other areas. For example, point 20 of the European Council talked about reducing our strategic dependence - raw materials, semiconductors, health, digital, food - and perhaps we need to think about this. The macro growth picture will also have to be re-engineered. The new macro scenario will have to be presented by you next month, in mid-April, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Calviño, and I suppose we will have to withdraw it and the expectations will not be those of before. Let us not escape that the most important thing, in my opinion, to solve the energy crisis and, therefore, an economic and projection-to-future solution is not in this decree, but in the decoupling of the gas price, no doubt. But they don't tell us, and we don't know exactly how to deal with it, that is, when that price is set with that peninsular exception, which does not appear as such, will the difference be paid?, how will the difference be paid? A few days ago we presented them with an alternative saying that it should not go to either the system's debt or budgets, but that we should fall in an extended way on demand. Well, you abstained and that caused that particular point not to come out. I'd like to know what they're going to propose, and that's a mystery, he'll tell me. Germany has been very irresponsible with the gas and dependence policy it has brought to Europe, and I say to you that there is a bad sign in the conclusions of the European Council, because the Iberian exception is that, an exception, but it is said that this has to be dealt with on the basis of aid or taxes and, frankly, that is not the solution. We must therefore continue to insist on the reform of the marginalist market. Its measures in general are fine, although the text until the last hour of yesterday did not close it either. Therefore, examining some consequences and even the application of some formulas has proved impossible for us, but it is generally fine. Some measures had to have been taken before, I don't understand why they didn't, all fuel-related measures had to have been taken before, and many disgusts had been saved. With regard to electro-intensives, I agree with the lowering of tolls, but I also say to you that the requirements for considering electro-intensives in Spanish regulation are much narrower than in European regulation. What we are asking you to do is to adapt it to European regulation so that more companies can enter that category. It would be important. CO2 auctions. They're talking about the 65 million. The other day we asked you to use the maximum, 25% of those benefits. I don't know how many these 65 million represent. Is it 20%, is it 18%, is it 22%, or are we going to go to that maximum to try to lower the price of electricity? The CAP. We told him that the other day too. Perhaps a reflection would have to be done to rearrange it. Points 23 and 24 of the European Commission's own meeting spoke of the need for food supplies. Perhaps we should reflect on this and on what should be done in particular in agriculture within the State. Direct aid to businesses and professionals, transport, industry, etc. We think it's right. I am also grateful that it is the Basque institutions, with the assistance of outside finances, and so on, that will take care of all this. Minimum vital income. The matter is not so much the 15% rise, which is fine, but the penetration, which we do have in Euskadi with the GIR, but you have not yet achieved the minimum vital income. There is a lot of bureaucracy, there is a lot of digital and cultural divide that needs to be overcome, and I believe that efforts must be made. By the way, let's see if they explain it well to the people who are in a situation of need who are going to receive a higher amount and within three months they are going to take it off, see how they explain it and see how all these people are going to interpret it too. Rentals. I think we should try to limit the increase - we are already at 9.8%, almost 10% - to 2%. However, since we have not lowered inflation by July, there are going to be comparative aggravations here, because if this is not prolonged or something else is not done - that would perhaps already be starting to over intervene in the market -, if that is not done, it turns out that the person who has to be renewed on 6 July is going to come out of the eye of the face with regard to how the CPI is at that time and the indices to be applied. Therefore, this is a three-month measure, but complicated. We'll see how we're doing in July. It seems very optimistic to me, as I see it, that we are going to normalize the situation. I insist, much depends on the gas disconnection. As for PPPs or the fallen benefits of heaven, you extend what had already been done before, with what we agreed, and you are limited to what the directive marks, contracts from now on, more specification, intergroup hiring... Okay, but, as I've seen in some headline in some newspaper, it's not too much news if you go to the small print. ICOs extend the deadlines, which I think is correct; the social bonus is extended; extension of the light reduction and suspension of the generation tax. Mr President, all this - I have gone at full speed - is credit and more credit, which means more debt. We were at 120% of GDP. To what level can this lead us now, and with an inflation of 9.8%? Frankly, we are very concerned about public finances. The guidelines for European social policy state that the adjustment of budgets from 2023 onwards must be made by limiting current expenditure, so that, in principle, the budgets of 2023 would be restrictive. In the situation we are in, are we going to be able to do a similar braking? Shouldn't we try to rethink all this, beyond, I would say, the stability pact? Today we have the tax rules suspended. Is this going to continue, or is it going to end, as planned, and is it going to address, where appropriate, a reform? These are all issues which need to be clarified and which are not entirely in their hands, but are in Europe's hands, but which will affect us all. I have been reviewing the percentage of inflation in European countries before. The highest has Spain. They are some more financial economies, etc., but I am amazed at the level that some countries have, which is relatively low, despite the leap that we have all made, but that of Spain is very worrying and we are pulling portfolios or pulling 'we will pay for the future'. We also have the 70 billion of Europe - then we will talk in the question of control - once this first initial package is finished. Those are on credit. What is your approach? 'Cause it looks like we're going to everything. Are we going to go to everything? Are they going to apply the criterion of letting more institutions than just the Spanish Government participate? I think we have to start looking beyond, we are putting many tirites and palliatives, and that is good and it is very necessary, but we should start thinking already the day after, in investments, in funds, in structural something and, frankly, it seems to me that in the day-to-day, so it is happening - I admit that you are right, there have been many circumstances that have occurred, it has touched a moving legislature, that is true -, we can no longer pull from the little machine to make money or credits. Something has to be said and, of course, a dry brake is not going to be and cannot be acceptable, and I would like you to think about it too. So much hasty the other day cutting me off and I had to go at full speed. If there is anything left in the tinker or in something I have not explained myself well by the answer you give me, I will intervene later in the second round. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u50	Egun On. Good morning. Sabah al khair. Mr Sánchez, I will begin by asking a number of questions which you and your Government have not yet answered. Why have they unilaterally changed their position on the Sahara by aligning themselves with Morocco? Why, Mr. Sanchez? In exchange for what? What is so important that it betrays the commitment, the longings and the trust of the Saharan people? How does your proposal help the Saharans? I do not want you to respond to me, I want you to explain it to the Saharans who are accompanying us here today in this Chamber, to those who are on the street and who see how this Government has abandoned them, to explain to them that they do not have their support to resolve the conflict in accordance with international law and respect for their rights as a people. The Saharan people have been waiting too many years for a just and democratic solution to begin to build their future in peace, to begin writing their history in freedom, owner of all their rights, decades waiting for this State and the international community to secure their right to determine how they want to live, decades waiting to be able to end the Moroccan occupation and imposition against their lands and citizenship, an illegal occupation that their Government has just legitimized. You strongly denounce the Ukrainian invasion and occupation by Russia, while legitimizing the Moroccan over the Sahara. She is, in addition to being incoherent, quite hypocritical. And it is very serious, Mr Sánchez, it is serious politically, it is serious economically, but above all it is serious humanely, because the Saharan people had hopes that this State would fulfil its promises and have been betrayed. To, supposedly, fix a crisis with Morocco, you have suddenly opened a triple crisis: with Western Sahara, with Algeria and with each and every party in this Parliament. And I repeat the question: why? Why has it abandoned what is a majority social and political consensus, as few in this State, which passes through support for UN resolutions for a just, lasting and democratic solution based on the self-determination of Western Sahara? Because you, instead of strengthening this position, align yourself with the United States or Israel and give a letter of nature to the illegal Moroccan occupation of the Saharawi territories, contrary to UN resolutions, no matter how much they deny it. Next week we will have the option of debating, of checking with what support and legitimacy it counts for this turn in the historical position, but until then I would ask you to reconsider and rectify your decision and, if you do not, to be honest, to act transparently and to explain the real reasons for this decision; a decision that can also have economic and energy consequences. Algeria has already announced a review of all the agreements with Spain and, in the midst of an energy crisis such as the current one, putting one of the main gas suppliers in check for this state, does not seem to be the wisest or the most responsible. Mr Sánchez, you say that we are in the midst of an energy and economic crisis because of Putin and his invasion of Ukraine, and no, this crisis is not the result of the invasion of Ukraine. Obviously, the war in Ukraine and the sanctions applied have aggravated it, yes, it is an obvious fact, but the origin of the crisis we are experiencing is in the current energy system, a system that is out of control, based on speculation and the accumulation of benefits. This is what needs to change at the root, we have been demanding it for months and this Government has not yet done so. Already in the summer, when prices began to rise out of control, we warned about it and demanded structural measures such as de-indexing gas from the price-fixing system, catching prices or launching a comprehensive audit of the energy market in order to know the actual cost of generating each source of energy and to put an end to the manipulation of it. They told us that we could not, that they were unreal measures, that the market could not intervene, that the market had its own rules and that they had to be respected. Today is the day when these measures are being proposed by your Government and European governments. Even governments like French, nothing suspected of communists, are already proposing the intervention of energy companies. Everything that could not be done just a few months ago, today is not only possible, but it is necessary, and it is ironic to see how the dogmas of neoliberalism are falling day by day, because, as I told you on another occasion, the problem of triggering one crisis after another is the system itself. I told him that extreme weather events, the depletion of raw materials, energy chaos, depletion, pandemics, droughts, air quality, the destruction of ecosystems and species, the accumulation of wealth, all this, the climate, social and economic collapse is a consequence of the system itself. I told him that a system that requires to survive the destruction of the land we inhabit and the denial of the rights of the people who inhabit it was a failed system, that a predatory system of people, resources and the planet would bring us to collapse. I don't know if you remember, Mr. Sánchez, because here you have it: chaos and collapse. Perhaps you understand me now, share this reflection and we can begin to talk about this necessary transformation. The invasion of Ukraine and its consequences have re-emphasized the weakness of a global system in which wars and war tensions generated by geostrategic, energy and economic interests will happen, and will generate increasingly harsh human and social consequences; consequences that we must face, yes, face, but if we only deal with the consequences by forgetting the causes, the crises will happen one after the other. We therefore need to address this challenge from a dual perspective, from the structural transformation of the energy, economic and social model, to the activation of palliative measures in the face of the loss of social and economic well-being faced by citizens. The first will be the only way to ensure decent living conditions in the medium and long term; the second, the shield of protection to be activated while such transformation takes place. That is why we appreciate the palliative measures that the Government has proposed, although it remains short on the structural ones. We welcome the increase in minimum vital income, the extension of the electric bonus, the ICO credit lines, aid to the electro-intensive industries and to the agriculture and livestock sectors, the funds for transport or the reactivation of ERTE, and we are pleased that there is no general tax reduction, as the right-wing party asked. We appreciate all of this, and although we would have liked it to be more ambitious, the measures presented are in the right direction, and it is fair to recognise it, but we also need decisions and structural policies that have not been collected. We, as we have always done, every criticism, every requirement we have made to this Government, have accompanied it with concrete proposals; this time too, through the battery of measures contained in the shock plan that we present to them, more than thirty emergency and structural measures, which we hope can be taken into account and which we can work to achieve. These are measures which we believe should be shared by this Government, among which we propose, for example, to apply a moratorium on the payment and freezing of rents and not only to limit their increase by 2%, or to increase the income limits for access to the minimum income, the social bond or the minimum vital supply so that more families can benefit from them. Upgrading the pensions and the SMI to the CPI without waiting for the following budgets to compensate as soon as possible for the loss of purchasing power that workers and pensioners are suffering from the outpouring of inflation, which today has gone up to 9.8%. In view of this, we believe that the protection of workers must be one of the pillars on which any plan that is to be put into effect must be centered. That is why we advocate banning dismissals for reasons arising from rising prices and the consequences of war, recovering the mechanisms that have already been used in the pandemic and that have been proven to be effective. We have also proposed that an exceptional wage revaluation obligation be established for at least the CPI and that the application of any devaluation, freezing or revaluation below the CPI be deemed null and void, thus avoiding a wage freeze and devaluation by means of an income pact that we will not accept. Let us now go to the major absences of the Government's plan, the structural measures, measures aimed at the intervention of the energy market and the tax system. First, the electricity market, Mr Sánchez, must be involved, or we will continue to pay for the consequences of the fraud that has become. We therefore propose to intervene in order to disconnect the price of gas from the price-fixing system. This, in addition to substantially lowering prices, would limit the benefits that companies are getting from this system. We also appreciate that the price of gas, as we asked, can be met so that consumers pay on average the same as they paid before the price escalation, but we hope that they will not maintain the initial idea of setting it at 180 euros, because this would remain an unacceptable abuse. But only then will we not solve the underlying problem. Work must begin already on a permanent and structural reform of the system so that each energy is sold on the basis of its actual costs of production and not at the dawn of speculation and markets. The agreement reached by the European Council to be able to undertake the decoupling of gases is a first step, but it is not enough if it is only temporary and if it is not accompanied by the permanent change of the system that is needed. We ask you to press for the European Union to start this path and, if not, to analyse with the majority of this House that we share this objective the mechanisms that will enable it to do so without having to wait for Europe. Secondly, to put an end to the benefits of electricity; not to reduce them, to put an end to them. His Government had made an effort to cut these benefits in an acceptable way, but, following the changes made by the threats and protests of the companies, that decision had virtually no effect. That is why it is necessary to recover and expand this cutback from fallen illicit profits from heaven, because, Mr Sánchez, seeing how large energy companies get rich at a time of crisis is shameful and should even be punishable. Having to see how Iberdrola earns more than €38 billion while people tremble over not being able to pay bills is indecent. Seeing how your president, Mr Galán, earns more than 35 000 euros a day, while thousands and thousands of people live in precarious conditions with 1000 euros a month, is indecent. See how big electrics Iberdrola, Endesa, Naturg and earn €65 billion in a year is indecent. And a State that is called social and legal should not allow such injustice. In addition to being illicitly enriching, the leaders of the electricians allow themselves to threaten and blackmail the Government when they see their benefits at risk, because the rich oligarchs not only exist in Russia, ladies and gentlemen, it is these powerful Spanish oligarchs, these, yes, those who are supplying themselves at the expense of the people, it is not the Government; these are the ones who are speculating with a good of first necessity, it is not the Government. And that is why it is also necessary to intervene in the pockets of those who have the most. If we really want the crisis not to be paid this time by the workers, the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, as it happened in 2008, it will be up to those who can but never took up their share of the crisis. Because the working majority can no longer be asked, they have already made every effort and are still recovering. Therefore, in the face of the right and its widespread fall in taxes, Euskal Herria Bildu proposes to apply a special tax to energy companies of 12% on profits; a tax on the bank, so that it returns the 60 billion that still owes us from the bank bailout; a tax on wealth and big fortunes, and an effective rate on corporate tax of 15% on profits. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for more taxes, more taxes on the rich, more taxes on energy, banking and large companies, because now it is up to them to take on the burden of this crisis and to sustain and finance all the rights protection measures that they themselves have put into check. It is possible, yes, to increase income without touching the pocket of the working class; it is perfectly possible. Because, Mr. Sánchez, if you don't, how do you intend to pay for all these policies? How do you intend to cover all these measures? Look, we came from a pandemic that brought with it brutal human, economic and social consequences; a lot of resources were invested in protecting people, employment and the productive fabric, and it was a good decision. We are now chaining another crisis with very serious consequences, with a scope that we still do not know. New measures are activated to mitigate the impact and will have to be taken even more; measures that will have to be financed in some way, and in response to this there are two options: to increase our debt and to make cuts or increase revenues. What's your formula, Mr. Sanchez? Look, I tell you sincerely that we want to believe you when you say that this crisis will not be paid for by the citizenry and that there will be no cuts, but for this it is urgent to address fiscal measures that increase revenues, if we really want to face this new crisis without citizens losing rights and social welfare; more income to invest in people, Mr Sánchez, not for arms and defence, which we will not support. We've already warned you. Mr Sánchez, the right wing wants to crush everything and impose its economic doctrine of widespread poverty and social dismantling. Today they have again demonstrated this: eliminating taxes, sinking the public system, making cuts and, finally, privatizing public services. This is their only recipe, they don't have one more proposal. And we have no doubt that they will use all the means at their disposal to achieve it, more in the midst of a crisis. They will use unrest, fear, uncertainty, the street, institutions, judges, intoxication, lies and even war; they will use everything, because they only seek to secure their interests and privileges. A crisis like the current one is the perfect broth for the ultra-right to impose its regressive and authoritarian recipes. We must not allow it. A progressive government must listen to the street, show empathy and show that there is another way to do things, which can, even in the midst of a crisis, protect and govern for the benefit of the majority, because citizens must see and notice in their day to day that their lives improve. It is not worth saying that they do much for them, it must be noted, it must be perceived. We know that these are difficult times, but it is in difficult times when we have to make a difference. It is time to take the decisions that have been promised and that are still pending in the area of rights and freedoms, and we must do so without any obstacles. It's not worth saying, you have to be and act differently to the right. You, Mr Sánchez, have a progressive and plurinational majority ready to move forward, to move forward faster and faster. Don't miss the opportunity because you and especially the citizenry could afford it. And I'm done. As we did during the pandemic, in this crisis we will also act with responsibility and high-mindedness; responsibility towards Basque citizenship and the social and working majority of this State to protect their rights, and high-mindedness to contribute from a proactive attitude and do what is in our hands to not add any more uncertainty or fear to a citizenship that is exhausted. That is why - and although we will continue to work to expand it - if Euskal Herría Bildu depends, the plan that you have presented today will be approved. All crises offer opportunities. It is time to be brave and, in addition to protecting citizens, to address all the changes that are still to be made. Eskerrik asko. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u52	Thank you, President. President, we have known for a while that inflation stands at 9.8%, and in view of this, of course, the measures to mitigate the crisis are urgent and necessary, but the injection of public money, if it is not accompanied by an increase in contributions, becomes debt and, in the long run, in the current financial framework, becomes cuts. Entering into the detail of the measures, first, subsidizing the fuel is a retrogressive measure, because those who go by bus are subsidizing those who go only driving their all-terrain, and also maintain this primacy of the private vehicle. Secondly, the benefits of private companies, particularly energy companies, are virtually not touched; only oil companies are required to make an effort, but in a ratio of 3 to 1; for every 3 euros put by the government, these oil companies will put 1. That, in the midst of an energy crisis, companies in the sector have high performance accounts is insulting. Repsol, 25 billion; Iberdrola, 3800; Endesa, 1400; Naturgy, 1200. These are the benefits of last year's exercise. That the boards of directors of these companies are also full of former senior positions of the PSOE and the People's Party also tells us in the hands of who should not be managing this energy crisis. And, third, public money is put in place to postpone an unavoidable fact: the era of cheap and abundant oil has come to an end. This is the real reason for the energy crisis and it was long before the war in Ukraine. Every day we have new evidence of the limits of growth, which is the name of the report made by scientists fifty years ago and which have deliberately ignored the capitalist elites who have continued to spread the delirium of infinite growth. We are full in this crisis and, therefore, the International Energy Agency predicts that oil production could fall by up to 50% before 2025, a very close date. For this reason, the change in the economic system, the overcoming of capitalism is increasingly pressing, because all the optimistic techno fantasies that they intend to continue to grow do not take into account: first, that renewable electricity will not be able to replace everything that today moves diesel and gasoline; second, that according to which materials for this transition to renewables also scarce, because the rhythm to which they should be extracted is insurmountable - it spoke of materials such as lithium, graphite, cobalt or nickel - and, finally, that the shortage of oil does not have consequences only on energy and mobility, but also, for example, in the production of agricultural fertilizers. All this makes for a multi-dimensional crisis: energy - we live in - supply, climate and food, as FAO has already warned; a crisis that will be much wilder in the poorest countries. And yet, what does the government do? First, an agreement with Morocco, which is a betrayal of the Saharan people and which has an obvious motive: to entrust the Moroccan State with the role of gendarme against African migrations, which will, logically, increase for all the above. And secondly, increase military spending, also a pre-war dynamic of Ukraine, on the imperative of the European Union and on the imperative of NATO, and with the aggravation of the great Spanish bank, which already has many millions, starting with Santander and BBVA, invested in armaments. Investing in military material is the worst option of all. Manufacturing and using weapons is highly polluting; it is one of the most polluting industries and we are in a climate emergency. And what are all those weapons for? There is a crisis and rich states decide to rearm themselves. What future message is this being sent? The necessary agreements and investments, therefore, are not the ones that extend an outdated model. Radical measures such as energy market intervention, price limits, profit limits and the nationalisation of large companies are needed. The ecological transition cannot be left to private capital, which continues to ignore the limits of growth. Also investment in transformation of the economic model, more food sovereignty, productive relocation, public transport, i.e. more train and less car, and military disinvestment; a planned and fair growth, bearing in mind that measures of the ecological transition cannot fall on the popular classes while others continue to live on all gas. Decision-making in democratic areas, i.e. more sovereignty for peoples and not for opaque European States or Commissions and at the service of capitalist oligarchies which, as you have recalled, exist not only in Russia, but everywhere and influence economically. And finally, internationalism, because out of this crisis either the whole planet comes out or no one will come out. In a crisis situation, either there is a democratic exit and cooperation and who has the most puts, or there is an authoritarian exit and armor, and increases the distance between who has the most and who has the least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, what you have done with the Saharan conflict is not good either in substance or in form. As much as you are President of the Government, you do not change a country's foreign policy without the support of representatives of popular sovereignty. Having good relations with Morocco is fundamental, but giving in to blackmail is a sign of weakness, because the one who gives in once always gives in. The price of good neighbourliness, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be the appropriation of the Sahara and its waters for Morocco. Mr. Sanchez, do you know the worst thing you can say about a person in my land? That's not reliable. And look, I'm really sorry to have to tell you, but you, with your bandages, have shown us that it's not reliable because you don't fulfill what you promise. You have already realized to your partners, those you have in the government and those you treat like a vase. You promised the people of the island of La Palma that you would turn to help them and solve their lives broken by the volcano; and there they are, Mr Sánchez, abandoned. And even if you go up to this rostrum and boast of the millions that have been destined for the island, you know what? It's useless, because the people here will believe it or not, but those who are there, the palm trees, know what the truth is. Disappointing this Parliament, you have already announced, in the face of the crisis situation, that you have decided to reduce the price of fuels to 20 cents for all citizens. The cry of the truckers on the streets has led to Moncloa smelling chamusquina and has decided to dedicate 6 billion to help families in this country. Well, I congratulate you. You are right when you rectify, Mr Sánchez, but it is insufficient. Now, get that strange system in place as soon as possible to contain the price of light, because Spanish households and companies can no longer stand it. Until now, electricity companies had not wanted to give up their profits and their Government had not wanted to give up its taxes. It's about time I rectified. You have taken extraordinary steps to help Spanish families because the times we live in are terrible. You asked me a week ago to submit proposals for the Canary Islands because it is different. We present thirty-seven. They did not answer us and have not considered one; and that seems irresponsible to me, Mr President. There is no community in Spain that depends so much on imports and is impoverishing so much; we all matter. An island land, like mine, has no possible defence against a supply crisis; a land that lives on tourism is on the brink of death when, because of the war, we face the risk of a new tourist crisis. You know quite well that we have one of the highest unemployment and poverty rates in Europe, and you know that inflation - by the way, today's figure is 9.8 -, which is the most unfair of taxes, is tearing down workers who already have the lowest wages in all of Spain. For many of these people, rising prices means having to go to a social dining room, because money doesn't give them a living, even if they have a job. You have assumed of the billions that Spain receives from Europe. He has now made a decision, which I applaud, to help the Spanish families. And I wonder, aren't you going to do the same for my land, Mr. President? Save the workers and the self-employed, who are already carrying two crises behind their backs and no longer can. Save the Canary families that do not arrive at the end of the month. Save my people, Mr. Sanchez, don't betray us again, don't leave us forgotten. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government. First of all, our absolute support and solidarity with the people of Ukraine and our support for all those measures aimed at defending them from the war in Putin. Secondly, we must congratulate you, Mr President, because you have managed to bring to Europe an idea that the Canary Islands know a great deal about: the Iberian peninsula, an energy island with unique features. That's exactly what we know a lot about the canaries, as you know. That is why I will tell you that in relation to the actual decree law that has been promulgated today, although we do not know it at all, we have to make a suggestion to you: in view of the possible increase in the prices of tickets that further damage the air connectivity with the Canary Islands, it would be necessary to have measures - if this is the case - for the reduction of air navigation fees and airport charges. On the subject of the Sahara I have to tell you, and I assure you that I do not like it, that New Canarias expresses to you the most absolute rejection of your change of position regarding the traditional position of the Spanish governments on the Sahara. This represents unprecedented aggression against the legitimate rights of the Saharan people. One more step in the traditional closure of Morocco's permanent blackmail for the past forty-six years to prevent the implementation of UN resolutions and, consequently, the recognition of the Saharawi people to exercise their right to self-determination. That is, two options: either autonomy and being part of Morocco or independence; the second has been curtailed. This blackmail is not anything, it is a blackmail exercised by the Kingdom of Morocco through migratory flows and its control, as we all know, with absolute contempt, by the way, of the lives of many of its subjects; territorial pressure on Ceuta and Melilla and on the Canary Islands with a set of unilateral decisions. I have to tell you one thing: blackmail has never been resolved by paying, and this is what is going to happen now, it will not be resolved by paying. The Kingdom of Morocco is not reliable in such matters. I will tell you one thing: the Saharan people have already given their answer. There is an opaque, low-intensity war, but there is a war between the Frente Polisario and the Kingdom of Morocco at this time. We will never accept submission to the proposals and illegal claims of the Kingdom of Morocco. We're never going to accept this. Nor does the Parliament of the Canary Islands accept it - I have to say - in a recent agreement last week. Nor will we ever renounce the right of self-determination that assists the Saharawi people to constitute, if they so wish, the full Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic. The Canary Islands knows very well what the consequences would be of a Kingdom of Morocco expanded off our shores with the practices that characterize them: a State with insignificant democratic quality and with no respect for human rights. It is a great future for the Saharawi people, who are intended to be part of those who treat their subjects as the Kingdom of Morocco treats them. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The President of the Government said this morning, and he has been saying it for several days, that what else has to happen after the pandemic, the crisis and the war so that measures can be adopted unanimously. We wonder: and what else has to happen after the pandemic, the economic crisis and the war itself and its consequences so that, at last, instead of having twenty-two ministers, it has twelve; that instead of having thousands of advisers, it has half so that current spending will decrease. [[Applauds]] We are not talking about education and health, which are competences that the autonomous communities have assumed, but about the structural expenditure of the State that is, of course, making it more difficult to get out of this crisis. I am not surprised by the change that has been made with the Sahara, at all. All we have to do is read the Socialist Party's electoral programme which said that he believed that a referendum on self-determination should be held in the Sahara. The President who said that he would never agree with Bildu -'I say it five or twenty' -, that there would be no pardons, that with Podemos we could not sleep or make a government, that we would not have to wear masks, that there would be one or two cases in Spain, that we had emerged from the crisis, that we had emerged from the pandemic, that we would come out stronger, what will he do with the Sahara? The opposite he said in his election program, as with everything else. [[Applauds]] That's what happened. What happens here is that the problem here is that, in return, it has done something from our very grave point of view. In general, and it has been said here by other spokesmen far away ideologically from what I represent, there is a special affection of the Spanish people towards the whole Saharan people. This extends through all political formations and all ideologies, from the right to the left, through nationalist groups, independence, etc. Many of these people have welcomed Saharan boys and girls into their home for years and have shown special affection for the Saharan people, and they cannot be so despised by the president of all Spaniards. It is an insult to all these people and, of course, to the Saharawi people themselves. There is no such thing as a claim to a king who is outside Spain. This cannot be humiliated to the Saharan people and to all the Spaniards who for many years have transmitted affection to the Saharan people. You know that you have acted badly, that you have acted nightly, light-heartedly and that you have known yourself because that is what the king of Morocco wanted, of course not by his will, and that is of tremendous gravity. He says: we are very happy to be in Europe because we are part of those principles of humanism - by the way, the Christian name has been forgotten, but I am not going to go in there - of those principles of humanism that you now want to carry in education. I mean, they don't want students to know what the French Revolution was or how it got to this Europe, but they value the principles of humanism. You can't do so much demagoguery with these issues. Then there are the measurements. They had to have taken much earlier, there were means to do so, there were economic means and, above all, there were competences in Spain, and there was no intention of doing so here. It has been announced that it is done with everything, it has been announced two months ago that something is going to be done, then some balloon is launched probes, then it is rectified, it is announced again, it is going to Europe, it is going to be made the number that is done in Europe, then it is coming here, everyone is told by the press - including partners - and, from there, once they are approved, we will see if at some point these measures reach the whole of the Spaniards, that is the other part, because here many things are announced that do not arrive later. We are talking about an inflation of almost 10%. I understand that when you don't go directly to fill the Falcon's kerosene tank or you don't make the purchase, you don't know what's going on on the street, but people aren't getting there. People have lost a lot of purchasing power and are not taking action, and those taken today have told us Mr Echenique that it is thanks to Podemos, because he has said: thanks to us we have been taken is, is, is, is, all. Then we will be right about what we think the government was thinking of doing nothing. It is a good thing Mr Echenique told us that they were already there so that we could take all these measures. In short, there are no solutions to a tremendous problem in Spain here. People are having a bad time, people don't see a clear future because they see that all the measures, in the end, end up distorting to end up paying them all because, of course, here the money doesn't rain from the sky and, therefore, all those measures we are going to end up paying all the Spaniards. But that, we are not going to lower the tax, we are not going to lower VAT on petrol because it is enough that another party has proposed it to say that we do not pass there; we are not going to lower VAT on petrol. Of the fuels you will not lower the VAT, which was a solution that could affect the whole of the Spaniards and that, of course, could ease their pockets, but you do not want it because you are allergic to the tax drop. You don't want to play the IRPF, you don't want to do anything. In conclusion, I believe it has become clear that his most reliable partner in this Chamber - and the spokesman for Bildu has made it clear - is Bildu, who has offered him his unconditional support. One thing I will say to something you have said here and that I, of course, am not willing to overlook it. You said that entrepreneurs are extortioning the government. No, no, those who were extorting entrepreneurs were the terrorist band ETA shooting shots so that they don't create wealth in Spain, and today we are still paying those consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u59	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u60	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. One. On the invasion of Ukraine, we have already shown our support for the Government, provided that it follows the line of the European Union. We wish and must be supportive of the actions that our partners do and, of course, with all Ukrainians. It is clear that defence investments are necessary. Mutual defence is fundamental in the present and will also be essential in the future and we must all work together, within our possibilities, to equip ourselves with what is necessary for our defence, if the need arises, which we hope will not arise. Two. With regard to energy and the conclusions of the European Council, what is essential will depend on the Commission, which has a deadline until May to draw up its proposal. It seems that the majority line is that of state aid, rather than intervention on the market. The market is supposed to work well and if it does not fulfil its social role, in the PRC, we have always believed that the states and the Union must act, they must intervene. Of course, there can always be misadjustments at some point, but they are only admissible if they do not endanger the social well-being and basic values of our society. In this case, the Spanish position has been partially successful, since the Member States will be able to take less stringent measures than those accepted so far, but it does not mean that the Spanish proposal will be approved directly. Formally, they have only undertaken to study each country's proposals to see if they meet the conditions of the treaties. We certainly look forward to seeing what the Government's proposal to the European Union is. In the PRC we have always consistently reiterated that market intervention is possible and necessary, and in the area of energy, all citizens should have a guaranteed minimum with a price without overruns. Invoices of light and heating cannot be subject to this uncertainty. Look at the CPI we met today. And three. As for Morocco, what do you want me to say, Mr President? Just to know this we have had a feeling of perplexity. We have become truly perplexed. I think almost all the Spaniards. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria, traditionally for years, has supported the cause of the Saharan people and we have also said that in foreign policy the PRC is with the Government, but, of course, whenever there is a minimum consensus. I do not know what consensus he has been able to gain to make the decision to write to the king of Morocco by changing the Spanish position agreed and consolidated in politics and society. I don't know how many people you've talked to, how many people have made this decision and, moreover, right now. It is clear that neither with the main opposition parties nor with their investiture allies. Nor has he consulted with the partners of the government, not even with part of the Socialist Party. I do not tell you that I have to consult with the PRC - we do not aspire to that - but we do demand, like all Spaniards, a more convincing explanation, something beyond the text of the letter we already knew. We would also like to know if you have had any contact with the representatives of the Saharan people, who are the main ones affected by the new Spanish position. Of course, we know that he has spoken to the United States and Germany; or, rather, the United States has spoken to us, to Morocco and to Algeria, which, by the way, will not take the gas away from us, but is already taking reprisals at the moment with some Spanish companies that already had contracts awarded and are taking them off. I don't know if you're aware of this, Mr. President, but check it out. Look, Mr. President, you've claimed unity. Something very serious has happened in this performance when it has obtained so much unity against it. Think about it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, the national plan to respond to the economic and social impact of the invasion of Ukraine has a manipulative title because its shock measures aim to respond, above all, to the accused economic and social decline that Spain has suffered since its arrival in Moncloa. The disturbing record rise in energy prices that you committed to reducing or inflation - now at 9.8% - to 1985 levels, and the supply freeze will now be exacerbated by the rebound effect of the war. But our ruin began three years ago with you at the head of a government that came to proclaim with its publications that farce of the'strongest exits of the pandemic'. Mr Sánchez, if you are sincere in your insistent request for political unity to overcome the difficulties we face, you should not falsely cover up the serious failures of your management. Nor should it conceal a division between the members of the blue bank who are contrary to national interests as they disagree, even with large accusations, with NATO, an organization that guarantees the security and freedom of the allied countries. Do not rule out that, after your budgetary commitment to strengthen our defense, your coalitions incorporate the PSOE into the list of war parties, so far reserved exclusively to disqualify the opposition and to label Minister Robles as an atlantist rage. By the way, there are none of the Communist ministers right now in the hall. Put yourself in the worst. Mr Sánchez, a number of judgments show that your Government has failed to comply with the Constitution, but you remain incorrigible. To the thread of another clairvoyant article by the great constitutionalist Manuel Aragón Reyes about his presidentialism, I remind him that the members of the General Courts represent the Spanish people and yet you treat deputies and senators as subordinates. It is unacceptable for Sánchez's issues to move in favour of State issues. It is not acceptable that a fundamental historical matter for Spain and the special relationship with Morocco should be removed with this varied appearance without giving a monographic account of a decision that radically alters one of the most sensitive parts of our foreign policy. This morning he has mixed it irresponsibly with other materials. Mr President, after your failed European pilgrimage while in the streets of Spain calling for different productive sectors - farmers, fishermen or transporters - who work at a loss, you have insisted on what you have called an Iberian exception. By way of exception, however, the Asturian exception, because its decisions have penalized the socio-economic development and employment of the Principality. Being so important the gas, I remind you that in the harbour space of El Musel de Gijón sleeps hibernated for ten years a splendid regasifier installation. Its government denies our energy sovereignty and in 2018 closed coal mining, the only indigenous fossil fuel we have in Spain, condemning the basins to desertification. With the just transition, the Executive left us to a mustia transition, without socio-economic alternatives. After the closure of power generation power plants, we now buy dirty electricity from those in Morocco. Some of those that occasionally operate in Spain have been supplied this same month of March with mineral imported from Russia. The Statute of the E-Intensive Consumer was clearly insufficient. In short, the Asturian exception is a sign of a erratic economic and social policy that also leads to uncertainty and impoverishment for all Spaniards. The unit, Mr. Sanchez, we have to work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - No, no, no, Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although they are of a different nature, the three points of the President's appearance - the European Council on the energy market, the NATO summit in the face of war and relations with Morocco - can be read with some interdependence and necessarily interacted with Spain's internal problems. The arrival of the decree of measures adopted by the Council of Ministers yesterday would have been desirable if it had arrived two weeks ago. What seemed unthinkable, a war in Europe, has, however, come true with the brutal invasion of Ukraine by Russia, a war that marks the entry of the world into a new geopolitical age, with international tensions that will be projected on the internal problems of Spain. The war of occupation and destruction by the invasion of Ukraine Russia has been active for more than a month, it is destroying cities, destroying a country, causing an urgent exodus, a war involving Western Europe and, said cautiously, threatening its security. Dependence on external gas and oil supplies compromises essential elements for the European economy and, in combination with the marginalist electricity market, has led to an increase in energy that makes many Spanish companies impossible and greatly complicates the economy of families. On the other hand, the letter that the President of the Government addressed to the king of Morocco, with which he seeks to overcome the crisis in relations between Spain and Morocco, we believe that it is framed in the Western countries' adaptation to the geopolitics of North Africa, but entails a change in the tradition of Spanish foreign policy on the question of Western Sahara and the just demands of the Saharan people to align themselves with the current positions of the United States, Germany and France, very relevant actors who have taken advantage of Morocco's proposal for Western Sahara. However, compliance with United Nations resolutions is both invoked. This decision, as several groups have pointed out, would have required a previous debate in Congress, since it is a transcendental issue in Spain's foreign policy. Derived changes are going to trigger at a dizzying speed and will affect the country's structural problems. The problems of this state of foreign policy require the participation of Congress in the decisions to be taken, as is the case with the decisions of the Government of Spain in the face of the conflict in Western Sahara. Explanations, analysis, political consensus and respect for international law greatly strengthen positions in democratic countries. He said that the international context raises and amplifies three internal issues that would have required urgent action: the economic problems arising from the rise in energy prices, the social discontent of the rural environment with the historical crisis in the primary sector and the structural problems of transport. From there arise two citizens' demands with important social quiet that have shown that we are facing structural problems, as has been pointed out in the strike of transport and in the crisis of survival of the rural environment, whose call of attention brought on March 20 to four hundred thousand demonstrators to the center of Madrid and in which we participate much of the plurality of sectors that make up the rural environment. Perhaps it was the biggest rural demonstration in Spain. The Government cannot disagree with or minimize this problem. Protesters have called for real attention and solutions to make farms and livestock viable, for hunting and, in short, for the survival of the rural environment. Similarly, in the deployment of renewable energy, the international energy situation makes it essential to support a distributed generation model, a self-consumption model with greater intensity than the Government has done so far. A distributed generation model would make us much more resilient to this type of crisis. Understanding the substance of these interrelationships can contribute to strengthening Spain's external action and also to correct the approach to solving the structural problems of the rural environment, energy and transport that we have pointed out. Perhaps European countries will need to give priority to their relations with countries with similar democratic values, which respect rules and agreements, and to a geopolitics based on international law. Internally, we believe that it is necessary to react faster, to meet and listen to farmers of the 20M Rural Vivo, to attend to the small gas stations of the emptied Spain and to drive decisively, with all our strength, the distributed generation that does not make us depend on the great oligopolies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to start my speech by recognizing the enormous work of each and every member of the Government, who are dealing with society as a whole in our country, with organizations, with trade unions, literally leaving behind what does not stand up for this country's opposition. [[Applauds]] Because it is very easy to go up to this rostrum, attack the government and not make a single proposal. That is what the opposition, especially the right wing of this country, has accustomed us to, which also plays with the pain of the citizenry to provoke an extreme confrontation with the Government of Spain. But that trick has little or no path. I would also like to remind the right, the opposition, Mrs Gamarra and Mr Abascal that the President of the Government is appearing today for the fourteenth time in this legislature in the Congress of Deputies. Fourteenth time the President of the Government appears, for those who say that he does not come to account for the management of the Government, and at the worst times and under the worst circumstances; Mrs Gamarra, take good note, because it was not precisely something that characterized President Rajoy, at all. [[Applauds]] That's why I say it about the three hundred and sixty degrees you guys usually give. It is an ideal time to appeal to unity; to unity of action, to unity of parliamentary groups, of political formations. This parliamentary group, this Government, has been extremely respectful and has reached out to all parliamentary groups in weeks of intense dialogue with the groups, opening the door to proposals and initiatives that will, of course, improve the measures to be taken in an exceptional situation. But in the Socialist Group we have the feeling that we have a very short memory and that they are not up to the circumstances, ladies and gentlemen; they are not up to the circumstances. We soon forget that we are emerging from a terrible pandemic, the worst health crisis in a hundred years, which has forced us to multiply the efforts of public action in this country, to multiply the action of the Government also at the European level, where I want to highlight the leadership of the President of the Government in the health crisis and now also. [[Applauds]] In the health crisis, leading, being the first country and the first president of the government that proposes a shock plan for the recovery, as soon as possible, of the impact caused by COVID-19. In front of that, what did we find? A dismal opposition - at that time led by Mr Casado, absent today, in that catharsis of the People's Party - trying to torpedo all the action of the Government of Spain, something that has characterized them the whole legislature, the whole legislature! And now the President of the Government is also leading a response in the European Council, and we are particularly surprised that they have a negative attitude towards achieving the objective of Spain and Portugal to have room for manoeuvre in setting the price of gas, which directly influences electricity. That is an achievement that the President of the European Council himself acknowledges, how can you point out here that that is not true, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! How can they do that! How can they lack the truth so boldly! Isn't it possible to have a minimum of respect? [[Applauds]] But we do not ask for that respect from this Government, because they have never had it or are going to have it, we do not have expectations about that consideration, but we do have expectations of the entire citizenship of this country, which deserves to be told the truth, the truth. And, in that regard, it is indisputable that the President of the Government has carried out a major negotiation and we have achieved a result that will be vertebrate in the coming weeks from the technical side with the European Commission, after the political mandate of the European Council, so that the citizenry in this country has a positive impact on the decline of what they have to pay for the price of light every month. Therefore, let us be minimally responsible for the statements we make in this rostrum, because the great phrases are very good, the search for the body by body, the confrontation, the accusation, points out, but you also have a responsibility, and what less than demanding them to tell the truth, it is not much to ask. In relation to unity, of course we demand unity. We are facing a challenge of unknown dimensions, a war challenge, a war conflict in Ukraine. We are all aware that Ukraine's territorial integrity is not uniquely and exclusively at stake here, democracy is at stake in the international context, especially in the West, because Putin considered it a threat to have a democracy very close to him and that is why he has acted in the way he has done, behind the backs of the international community and putting into check the social and economic stability of Europe as a whole and of the world. In this respect, Mr President, members of the Government, in our parliamentary group we welcomed - I said at the beginning of my speech - the package of measures, because it is a courageous package of measures, which is aimed at directly addressing the main needs of our country. Faced with that, we expect more collaboration and more input from the opposition, but we attack directly at the core of the families that are suffering, and let us not forget that it is a package of measures complementary to a huge battery of actions that the Executive has been carrying out since the beginning of the pandemic, and I want to highlight all that this Government is doing. You question the unity of this government. I will remind the People's Party - let us no longer speak of its internal unity as a political formation - of the unity of the autonomous governments which the People's Party has led and which have gone through hasty elections, as in Madrid or recently in Castile and León, and have not done so in Andalusia because they have seen the ears of the wolf, so of course, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Applauds]] Do not question the stability, the unity of this Government. We appeal to the difference and look for the meeting points, but that clear orientation, also reflected, Minister of Finance, in the General Budgets of the State, is the best instrument to vertebrate the policy of a country and that for the second consecutive year we managed to approve in this House. These are budgets which will provide a whole package of social protection measures, which will boost economic and industrial activity, and are now accompanied by a package of exceptional measures to deal with an exceptional situation, for which, of course, we also require an exceptional commitment, because it would be exceptional that they will be incorporated into what is good for this country. That is what this parliamentary group and this Government are calling for, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] It is especially surprising to hear them talk about Spain's weakness or lack of leadership in the international context. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you are aware that the NATO summit is to be held here on 29 and 30 June, in which the NATO security policy instrument will be adopted over the next ten years. I therefore believe that we must be perfectly aware of how the initiatives are being carried out, who is leading the actions of the Executive and who is leading the social democracy today in the international community as a whole, not just in Europe. And I do want to ask a question to your ladies and gentlemen. You raise many questions here, you send messages to the air, but I also wonder what the whole citizenship in our country would think if it were ruling the right in Spain today. Would we be talking about redundancies or ERTE? Would we be talking about cutbacks or expansionary policies to reach the entire citizenry? Would we be talking about measures to boost economic activity or economic adjustments, which led businesses to an extreme situation in the 2008 economic and financial crisis? Let's speak with discretion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Protests.-Applause.]] I am tired, we are tired of attitudes with a very high weight of demagogy in this rostrum, very high of demagogy, not to mention the unofficial leadership, which is not official, of Núñez Feijóo. We trust and hope to have a People's Party, Mrs Gamarra, which is really up to date in an extreme situation such as that which we are living in today in Spain, not caused precisely by this country. You dance, you play with the numbers, you say, well, this isn't Putin's fault. But they forget that we are emerging from a pandemic that has caused international, European and also chaos in our country; by the way, we also miss them in managing that crisis. And from there there is a particularly relevant point on foreign policy, Mr President of the Government, inflation; indeed, the inflation that this Government is working hard to counter, which you did at the time. [[Applauds]] Opportunists! Opportunists! As far as foreign policy is concerned, I am surprised by the lack of content and weight in the interventions concerning the situation on the relationship between Spain and Morocco. We forget a historical fact, we forget the current situation, we forget what happened in Ceuta and we forget many historical realities. Also the presence at the high-level summits of former President Rajoy, at which he precisely endorsed Morocco's proposal. In 2012 and 2015, the People's Party was celebrating precisely this position, and here I do want, as spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to raise some questions to the People's Party: what position does the People's Party have in relation to Morocco? Do they hold a rapprochement and an agreement with Morocco? Do they tell Morocco that very well and here, in public, they say something else? do we actually play in contradictions or play a game of foreign policy as a state policy and can we go in one direction? I would like to point out that of course this Government supports the Saharan cause!, but we cannot go on for 46 years more settled in nothing, in abandonment. Solutions must be sought, problems must be tackled, not solved alone, and this Government is determined to put an end to the problems that are prolonged in time without a solution. [[Applauds]] That is what this Government is provoking, courageously, and it is not shielding itself - which can be done well because the situation is very worrying - in the migration crises; it knows perfectly well what is happening not only in the Mediterranean, but also in the Atlantic; it knows perfectly well the problems that represent a bad relationship with Morocco in the commercial and strategic field, it knows perfectly well, but this Government does not shield itself, it does not give itself to any cause to improve relations with Morocco at all. That's absolutely false. Here what is being raised is a framework of relations that we already moved when the Ceuta affair happened; by the way, the People's Party and VOX turned their backs on us. I must remind you that this position is geared towards a new framework of relations that will allow our country and also the whole of the European Union to strengthen ties with Morocco. That is really what is being debated, that is really what is being worked out, because the final stage of this journey requires an agreement between the parties, between the parties! That is what is, of course, being proposed within the framework of international legality and within the framework of the United Nations. Staffan de Mistura is the special envoy to resolve the conflict and has been with him with whom the foreign minister of the European Union as a whole has met most often in the search for understanding, but we cannot be constantly, and in addition extremely, attacking the Government of Spain when it tries to unlock situations that are prolonged in time without a solution. That is not the mechanism; it is the easiest, it is true, but the least electoral revenue will give you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and VOX. Mrs Gamarra, you have raised some really outstanding accusations, even addressing some minister in uneducating terms, which we obviously reject and do not support, because in the area of management of Transport and Mobility, this government - and I am going to put it as an example - has given its face, and has done so courageously, facing a situation and responding with more than EUR 1 billion, vertebrate a response to solve a problem that we are aware of, but we have also been very sensitive to give that solution from a budgetary point of view, with an unprecedented injection for the sector. For that has an answer and leadership from this Government, Mrs Gamarra. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, some lies have been raised here today; well, some have not, many. From the beginning, philosophy is a lie; a lie. There is - and here is the Minister of Education - no protection for that which you have brought here, from this rostrum - Mr Abascal - to have travelled in the realm of truth. It's a lie! You are echoing bubbles and moving them here, from this rostrum, without any kind of complexes. We do not believe that dynamic of lack of truth that you permanently transfer! Nor is it true that Algeria blocks the air connection with Iberia, with Spain. It's not true, it's not true, it's a lie. Just as it is not true that the Prime Minister of Morocco has appealed, requested the sovereignty of Ceuta and Melilla recently, these are statements of the year 2020, they are not recent, as has also been said in this rostrum today. And they use really unpleasant terms, such as the president going up here to bark and other things that don't come up; this Chamber deserves a decorum, an order, a respect for the president of the government. In this sense, we will always move in the decorum, confronting you, obviously, because we do not share space, but that of ruin, misery, to what you cling to to inject fear and concern into the citizenry, will not result, ladies and gentlemen of VOX; it will not result because, in the face of all this, in the face of that exacerbated rift, in the face of that contradictory message of permanent confusion and aggression, there is a response from the social democracy in Spain and Europe, which is to prioritize citizenship in the face of the messages of extreme hatred. [[Applauds]] There are aspects that we want to highlight, which include the measures that were adopted in the Council of Ministers yesterday, of which the President of the Government has today made a rather enriching review from the perspective of the detail that he has brought to all his honourable Members. But, as I mentioned earlier, the 15% increase in minimum living income and the rest of the social protection measures are already a reality in our country and are allowing us today to have more than 20 million people working in Spain. That is an indisputable reality that this Social Democratic Government has capitalized. And there is a particularly relevant aspect, and it is that some left-wing formations rise to the rostrum, raise the tone, point out to the government and demand it, but when this government commits itself to the most vulnerable groups or adopts vicious positions precisely to modernise the labour market, they turn their backs on us. I want to convey to you the message that in this country we are playing a lot right now and we demand and demand the commitment of all of you; orientate the shooting well, orientate the effort well, orientate the political space and also the political accusation, because today Spain demands political formations that are up to the circumstances, as are the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] I would also like to move that the NATO meeting will draw the stage for the next ten years of management. There have been some interventions that have powerfully attracted my attention, which I do not want to let go and to which I want to give a strong response. While I have pointed out the political opportunity that VOX or the People's Party normally transfer to this House, I must say, Mrs Oramas, that this government has been, is and will be responsible, that it is committed, that it has given and will respond to the uniqueness and extraordinary situation that has occurred on the island of La Palma. Let us not play with the pain of the citizenry; this Government has committed itself and is doing much to the terrible situation on the island of La Palma. Let us be aware of this because the speeches that we are moving here have an impact on society as a whole. I only ask you to be moderate in your statements and also fair in the consideration of what the Central Executive is doing, in coordination with the rest of the administrations, to attend to the terrible situation that the Canary Islands, which has experienced on the island of La Palma, has experienced. Mr Adanero, you come here normally - now in the Joint Group - to make a huge amount of accusations to the Government and you lose the orientation of what you represent in this House, which is to make initiatives. His obsession with other political formations really prevents him from guiding his interventions in the constructive field. In short, Mr President of the Government, you have a long journey in the coming weeks, a huge responsibility to face this terrible challenge that the international community is putting before us and, of course, the citizens of this country expect us to live up to. We are going to comply more with this situation that life has raised for us, that society has raised for us. Keep working with the same leadership and push because it will have the absolute support of society as a whole and, as it cannot be otherwise, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you so much for your effort, for your work and for your constancy. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a few minutes. Thank you. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, please. Let's get back to plenary. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u68	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the interventions and thank you for the tone of the interventions. I believe that, as I said at the beginning of my first speech, in the face of the situation in Europe, the challenges we are facing from two superimposed crises as unprecedented as they can first be a pandemic and now a war on European soil, at least for my part I will try in this reply to safeguard what I have asked of your ladies and gentlemen throughout the morning, and that is that we act together. If this moment can be defined by something it is precisely by the historical, by the unprecedented, by the definitive for Europe and for Spain, and therefore I appeal to the unity of its lords in relation to the national plan and also to the response to the war in Putin. In short, if we are against the war in Putin, we must all be united in responding to the economic and social consequences of the war. However, ladies and gentlemen, I do not resist answering some of the questions that have been raised, some with more fervor than others. There have, of course, been some parliamentary group which, throughout this parliamentary term, has disqualified me from all the points and called me at all, even calling me, Madam President, murderer, but who also call me autocratic and consequently little less to be homologated with a real autocrat such as Vladimir Putin, I think it is an offensive point, and I would like, Madam President, to withdraw that term from the Minutes of the debate. [[Applauds]] I don't think it helps, and I don't think it's true. You can indeed criticize, you can say what you want, but no longer just without lacking in the truth, but also even without insulting the political adversary or a Member, as is my case. Mrs Gamarra has made an intervention and the truth is that with that spirit in which I am, Your Honor, I do not know very well whether you support the Government or not. I think I'm going to stay in that indefinition because I don't quite understand whether or not you support the government with that door open. Show the unity I ask of the People's Parliamentary Group at this time so defining for Europe and also so transcendental for our country. And you say that you are suffering from the transport sector, that you are suffering from the fishing sector as well. Of course, the food sector is also suffering, the hospitality sector is suffering, the tourism sector is also suffering, the car sector is suffering, the ceramics sector is suffering, the construction sector is suffering, and the catering sector is suffering. Yesterday I saw some restaurateurs complaining about the rise in energy prices, the cost of living, and there are housewives, and health workers, and teachers, who are also bearing the economic repercussions of this situation, but it is that, ladies and gentlemen, we are at war in Europe. We have to contextualize where the political debate is taking place and the impact this war is having, in which it is clear that Putin's ammunition does not reach us, but it does impact our war. Therefore, it seems to me that it is crucial that we be aware that it obviously does not impact us in the same way that it impacts the Ukrainian population, not with that cruelty and not with that physical pain, but with a great deal of economic damage for our businesses, for our families and for our industry, for all. There is no sector, ladies and gentlemen, which is not affected by the economic consequences of the war: by this energy crisis, by this food crisis. We forget that both Russia and Ukraine are fundamental exporters for Europe of cereals. The other day, speaking to some leaders in North Africa, I was told that, of course, the coming crisis is not just an energy crisis, it is a price crisis and it is a food crisis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that we are suffering a war and that all sectors are being affected. There is not a single economic sector that has not been affected by the consequences of this war that only one person wants. The sectors that you have mentioned - all of which you have mentioned - and many others who have forgotten, many others are affected, and it is that, in case you have not noticed those who are only criticising the Spanish Government and who only point out as the only great problem of Spain to Pedro Sánchez and as a solution to the People's Party with VOX, in case you have not noticed, I insist, Europe is immersed in a war and we are part of Europe. And that is not discussed, what we are discussing is what to do about the impact of the war on Europe. You, both the right and the right squared, both the People's Party and VOX, say that everything is resolved by lowering taxes. Is there a volcano in La Palma? It resolves by lowering taxes. Is there a Filomena storm? It resolves by lowering taxes. Everything is resolved by lowering taxes, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, you only lower taxes when you are in the opposition, because when you are in the government you raise all taxes. We say that it is clear that we must lower taxes, we have lowered the taxes of light by 60% a long time ago, not only since the invasion, but for a long time. At any rate, we say that it is suicidal to disarm the welfare state, which must act to defend precisely the most vulnerable, which must guarantee health, education, defence, public order, pensions and social assistance. [[applause]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, you are in the save who you can and we all say to one, all to one. You speak, Mrs Gamarra, of foreign policy. On Morocco and Spain, I will simply remind you of something - which the Foreign Minister already did in his appearance and which also mentioned the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - and that is that there was a crisis in 2002, when you were ruling the country and was leader of the opposition José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Then, Your Honor, the Socialist Parliamentary Group learned from the media that you were sending troops precisely to defend the islet of Perejil, and there was no reproach on the part of the main opposition party; on the contrary, we understood that we were talking about a matter of state and, therefore, a state opposition was exercised on the part of the opposition leader. That is all I ask, ladies and gentlemen, because the approach being taken by the Government of Spain is the same as that taken by the Government of Zapatero in 2007 and by the Government of Mariano Rajoy in 2012 and 2015. Moreover, you criticize, but Mr Aznar did not appear in the Congress of Deputies, not even to report on the crisis of the island of Perejil, I am. [[Applauds]] In any case, you speak of foreign policy, you even complain that Spain has lost specific weight in international policy. This is a classic whenever it governs the Socialist Party and when it does not govern the People's Party. Whenever the Socialist Party governs we are cast into the arms of chavism, of maturity, of all those who are stateless in the international community, and less evil that you always arrive to place us on that island of the Azores and, finally, to be always in those places where, in fact, international order or international legality is called into question, as was the case with the invasion of Iraq by the United States. But if it really goes into substance - and I take it seriously, moreover, what you say - in what role Spain has in foreign policy right now, both in international policy and in European policy, which is already a domestic policy, I think we could land more than on abstract ideas on specific issues. What has the Government of Spain done during these two years of legislature? The Government of Spain during these two years of legislature, together with a few, we began to talk about a great Marshall Plan, which you criticized, which said that it was something that was never going to happen, and which, in the end, culminated in an important agreement at a European Council in 2020, where precisely a giant step was taken in the construction of Europe, with the pooling of debt and the articulation of European funds, which, in fact, are consolidating job creation and economic recovery in our country, and not only that, but are also contributing to the modernization of our economic fabric, something we did not have since before the financial crisis. After the financial crisis, ladies and gentlemen, we did not have the financial capacity to make public investments, to leverage private investment and to undertake the task of modernising our economic sector. Now we are doing it, we are the country that, over the course of this semester, ladies and gentlemen, we are even going to launch calls and also public tenders worth more than EUR 24 billion in all public administrations, precisely to address this modernization and, consequently, also to consolidate the economic recovery. Do not tell me that this is not a success of Spain and also of the Government of Spain, which has humbly contributed to that debate, leading together with a few to the beginning of the pandemic. You may find that insufficient. You say that you have achieved something at the last European Council which is absolutely insufficient. I have explained to you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as to the other parliamentary groups, the strategy that the Spanish Government has maintained in the energy debate, with three steps: one, an urgent step, in which a peninsula, such as the Iberian Peninsula, with the interconnections that we have of 2%, I believe we have scope and, moreover, arguments to be able to set reference prices for gas in its electricity transformation, and I also believe that this means progress and that it is good news for the whole country, because it will allow us in a short space of time to bend the curve of price developments. I said this at the beginning of my speech, Your Honor, that 73% of the price developments in our country right now are justified: one, because of the energy price developments and two, because of the evolution of unprocessed prices. That has everything to do with the impact of Putin's war on Europe, Your Honor, this is so; this is so. You tell me: no, it's just that inflation comes from before. Of course, of course, it comes from before, it comes from before because Putin, first of all, has been preparing this war for more than two or three months; I have told him on some other occasions. The main gas company, which is the owner of gas reserves in Europe, Gazprom, a Russian company operating in Europe, reduced its gas reserves to a historical minimum during 2021, precisely slowed the flow of gas to the European continent, and if that does not have a translation in the evolution of the gas price, Your Honor, then tell me what it has translation. Of course, it is behind that, as some of the issues that have also been raised during the parliamentary debates last year are behind that, such as, for example, famine, bottlenecks in the distribution of materials that are basic, for example, for sectors as important in our country as the automotive sector. Therefore, do not link this rise in prices with direct and indirect consequences that a war is having in Europe on price developments in our country and on our continent, it seems to me, Your Honor, that it does not adapt to reality and, moreover, it seems to me that it is an argument brought by the hairs. [[Rumors]] In any case, Your Honor, to say that we have lost specific weight in foreign policy when this very month of June we are going to hold a summit that is important... And? Am I saying no? But is it going to be celebrated or is it not going to be celebrated in Madrid? Do we agree that this is going to be an important summit for NATO history? [[Several Members: For us]] [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya makes affirmative gestures]] Well, that's it, I'm not sure what the problem is. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, they say they're late. It is also typical of the opposition, they always say: they arrive late and bad - they have already told me on many occasions, also with the pandemic -; now we are also late and bad. The PP always says the same thing: you have to lower taxes, for everything, whatever happens, you have to lower taxes. Even the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, goes so far as to say that the government is lining up and that out of every 100 euros that a Spaniard throws in gasoline, 57 are left with the government. Three clarifications on this, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, taxes account for 45,5 % of the final price of petrol, not 57 %, and, by the way, the tax burden falls below the Community average of 49 %. [[Applauds]] Secondly, it is not the Government of Spain that collects, it is the State. [[Rumors]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u70	Let me finish. I have listened to them calmly over many hours. [[Rumors]] It is the welfare state, ladies and gentlemen, that provides services such as health, such as science, such as education, which have been fundamental to safeguarding prosperity, well-being and cohesion during the pandemic. And the third clarification I want to make to you, Your Honor, is that 58% of hydrocarbon taxes and 100% of electricity taxes are transferred to the autonomous communities, which would be the ones who would see their income cut most. So no, ladies and gentlemen, the government is not in the pipeline, here only some have been in the pipeline - by the way, with a lot of money - based on overpayments and illegal commissions. [[Applauds]] Yes, Your Honor, yes. Besides talking about taxes, you're talking about public spending. This is another classic. It is true that it already beats them by the hand VOX in this, but in any case, in fact, this is solved by cutting unnecessary spending. That's what they say. Well, it does not stop being curious, ladies and gentlemen, because we have strengthened the AIReF, we have opened a unit within the AIReF precisely to assess public spending and its efficiency. Within the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan-if you read it, if you take the trouble to read the plan - there is a specific section for the study, for the evaluation of public policies in our country. And, Your Honor, to all this - which, moreover, have been recommendations that systematically, when you were ruling the country, the European Commission made to you - you ignored. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that fiscal discipline, fiscal rigour, efficiency of public spending. By the way, you have also criticised the vital minimum income, which was another of the recommendations made by the European Commission to Spain for a long time as a structural reform, and it was precisely this government that put it up. I just want to ask you, Your Honor, about transparency and accountability in relation to Western Sahara - which, by the way, what the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has commented on would be interesting if you responded in your speech - do you or do you not agree with the agreement we have with the Kingdom of Morocco? What is the position of the People's Parliamentary Group, are they in favour or not of the self-determination of Western Sahara? [[Applauds]] Say it. In any case, let me remind you of President Zapatero's words to the Government of José María Aznar in the debate on the state of the nation in July 2002, since Mr Aznar did not want to attend the Congress of Deputies to explain the crisis in Perejil. Mr Zapatero said: Mr Aznar, he is counting on us to defend our country's interests against the crisis in relation to Morocco, as the Socialist Party has always done, with full loyalty to Spain, its interests and its primary objectives. As the Government already knew, and now the House and the country know, the Government will have the support already expressed, and today reiterated, the understanding and solidarity of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] I say this, Your Honor, because any comparison with you and the opposition you make... By the way, it doesn't matter how many degrees you turn, even if you turn 360 degrees, change your spokespersons or leaders in this case, not your spokespersons, but continue in the same way as you do opposition. I ask you, Your Honor, in this and at such a defining moment for both Europe and Spain, to abandon what you have done throughout this health emergency, which is the pandemic, and to try to unite your votes and also support the work that the Government of Spain is doing. Finally, Your Honor, I find it quite surprising that you criticize many of the measures that are incorporated into this royal decree law when you have not had it for good, throughout the round that we have made with all the parliamentary groups, not even making a single proposal. [[Applauds]] Mr.Abascal, I already knew in advance that you - in addition, whenever you go up to the rostrum refers to it - are a great reader of philosophy, who is concerned about the education of philosophy in our country. [[Laughter]] I want to move something, Mr. Abascal, unhook yourself. You, who are a person committed to philosophy, who has read it so much, who knows it so deeply - I, of course, do not have your knowledge and truly regret it - do not worry because the boys and girls in our country are going to study philosophy. [[Applauds]] What you've been told is a bubble, you've been told a bubble. As you are a rigorous person, who always tells the truth... The rest of us are all these things that he calls us, but, as you are a rigorous person and I also know that it bothers you to be manipulated and to use bubbles, I tell you that this is a bubble, Your Honor. As it is also a bull to say - as you said in the rostrum - that all flights between Algeria and Spain are cut off. It is also a bolus to say that all the repatriations of illegal immigrants to Algeria have been cut and blocked. I, who know that you are a rigorous person, say to you: Do not listen to those bubbles, Your Honor, be careful with the misinformation. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal says the fault of the price escalation... Well, we know, Your Honor, the pandemic is the fault of the Chinese virus, and today price escalation is the fault of climate fanaticism and of course feminism; if you have not realized it, it is also the fault of feminism. You also say that what you want is energy sovereignty. They talk about energy sovereignty and climate fanaticism. It seems to me that it is the incoherence of reactionary movements as you represent, Mr Abascal. I'll talk to him about reality, see if he can understand it. Energy autonomy is based on the threefold alliance between the deployment of renewable energy, energy saving and energy efficiency. The green economy, which you criticise so much, is essential to achieving this energy autonomy. You're bragging about speaking out loud, but I don't think you two understand each other. This government is clear on which side, Your Honor, it is on the side of building energy autonomy based on the natural energy resources that we have. Yes, Your Honor, it is. [[Denials of Mr. Abascal Conde]] Well, you may think otherwise, but you do. Like when you say we have to defend the most popular classes, those who have become impoverished... - unfortunately, Your Honor, we are actually suffering a pandemic and now a war. Of course I do. But, ladies and gentlemen, which side are you really on? If we stick to your votes, you vote against cutting off the extraordinary profits of the electricity companies; you vote against the Food Chain Act, which specifically prohibits farmers and farmers from selling at a loss; you abstain in the vote on minimum vital income; you vote against the revaluation of pensions; you vote against ERTE; you abstain from the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. I am not very clear, Your Honor, who you support, but of course you do not support the middle class of our country. [[Applauds]] Little less than you accuse us, you accuse me again - this was also done by Mrs Gamarra in a control session - of using the war, and before the pandemic, as a pretext I don't know for what. Nothing less. The worst is that it's not new, two years ago they said the same thing with the pandemic and they also said it as a pretext for carrying out an extremist program. The extremist program was to avoid redundancies with ERTE, to extend vaccination more than any other country in the world, I don't know if the volcano for you too is a pretext that I'm using I don't know what issues, whether it's to support palm trees or to build new homes on the island of La Palma, which is exactly what palm trees need. Anyway, it's so crazy everything they say is said on its own, Your Honor. On the Sahara, after your analysis and your discourse so thoughtful and so rigorous, I will only tell you that Spain left the Sahara with a government or one of the governments that you so long for, precisely those who were before democracy in our country, those linked to the dictatorship. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mr Echenique, after listening to all the speakers in the parliamentary groups, there are a number of issues I would like to share with you. The first, it does not seem - perhaps I can make a mistake and in the twofold you make me a nuance in that - that none of your ladies and gentlemen is against the agreement between the Government of Spain and the Government of Morocco. No one has criticized it, no one has said that this agreement is not important, no one has raised a debate that it is much better to have a crisis with Morocco than to close it, because we do have economic relations, trade relations. I would like to remind you that Morocco is the third country outside the European Union in trade relations with Spain, which is indeed a strategic partner not only in immigration but also in the fight against terrorism and therefore fully enters into security. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly believe that it is possible, it is desirable and, of course, the Spanish Government is in this with the best relations, with two strategic partners, such as Algeria and Morocco. On Western Sahara, which you have commented on the discrepancy that your parliamentary group has, I will tell you, Your Honor, that what I have done as President of the Government - and I cannot avoid my responsibility - is to defend the interests of Spain. I have defended Spain's interests, just as I defended them last week in Brussels, achieving this Iberian exception, precisely in order to face the exacerbated rise in the price of light in our country and on the European continent, as well as defending Spain's interests when, precisely, we managed to close this crisis with Morocco. In any case, the position of the Government of Spain is the position of the European allies; it is the position that is enshrined in the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, which says, textually - and I quote in my letter to the King of Morocco - that a mutually acceptable solution must be found within the framework of the resolutions of the United Nations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I can accept that there are parliamentary groups, such as you, as nationalist parliamentary groups, that defend the self-determination of Western Sahara. There are other parliamentary groups that do not know very well what they are defending; as long as they are against the Government, anything. But, beyond that, Your Honor, what is not possible, what is not justified, because it is not - let us say - linked to the truth, is that the position of the Government of Spain or mine, in this case, is alien to the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Here there have been some of your ladies and gentlemen who have referred to resolutions of the United Nations Security Council of 2007 or before 2007; even, it is said that Spain is a protective and administering nation of Morocco. But if we stop being in 1976 of the last century, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the important thing is that we are where our European allies are, we are with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and we are also, ladies and gentlemen, in which it is the parties who decide which solution to the end to a conflict that has been enquished for more than four decades. There will be the Government of Spain, Your Honor, doing its part, and it is an active role, precisely, to achieve a solution that we inevitably need and that has opened an opportunity to appoint the new special envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for Western Sahara. Indeed, as you have said, and I share, in relation to the measures of the national plan, I have already said in my first intervention that they are in force until 30 June, but let us see what is happening, and there is an extraordinary uncertainty, but the will of the Government of Spain is that it is an open plan, that it is dynamic, because we will have to see what the answers we have to adapt to the reality of this war conflict and its economic and social consequences. But, indeed, as you have rightly said, Your Honor, when talking about taxes, two paths always open up. We can lower VAT on electricity, as this government has done, by 60% of taxes over the last few months, with a very important tax effort. If we extend them until the end of 2022, we would be talking about a tax effort of EUR 12 billion, so that we can get an idea; only these measures that we are going to put in place until 30 June are going to cost us EUR 6 billion. But, indeed, we cannot get out of this crisis with an even greater structural deficit that forces us to do things that we do not want to do. I therefore believe that two paths can be opened; one, lower the VAT on electricity, or raise it, as the People's Party did, by the way, when it was in the government. There are two paths; approve a vital minimum income or do absolutely nothing. And I will tell you the way this government prefers: we prefer to lower VAT on electricity, we prefer to increase ICO credits, we prefer ERTE credits, we also prefer to raise minimum vital income. Mr Rufián, who has made his speech on the matters dealt with in my appearance with some questions, makes an equalization between Ukraine and the Sahara. I think it's unfair, Your Honor, and it doesn't stick to reality or the truth. Precisely, what we are doing is defending international legality on both sides; and international legality, if it is based on United Nations Security Council resolutions, clearly recognizes as one of the solutions to the conflict in Western Sahara the autonomy proposed by the Moroccan Government for Western Sahara. I am not saying that it is the only one, but it is also one of the proposals recognized in the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Therefore, Your Honor, I do not think it is true that we defend international legality in Ukraine and do not do the same in relation to the conflict in Western Sahara. We do the same, we defend international legality, bearing in mind that, obviously, when we talk about it, in the case of Western Sahara, there is not only one proposal, but there are others. On Putin, of course, I share with you that we are only holding you back with economic sanctions. I believe that the European Council was quite explicit in this. If you set out in the resolutions of the Council of the European Union we not only address economic sanctions, but we resolve some of the legal loopholes, precisely in order to be much more determined and effective in the implementation of these economic sanctions. As far as the European market is concerned, you have said that it is the Spanish market; and, moreover, it seems to me to be an unfair criticism, Your Honor. You can criticise me whatever you want, but it is the European market, Your Honor; it is not the Spanish market, it is the European market that sets the rules. It's not the Spanish market. We have been calling on the European Union, in this case the Commission and the Council, to allow us to review and decouple energy price developments from electricity prices for a number of months now. Why have we been allowed this exception? Precisely because, although we are formally integrated into the European energy market, we are not, from the real point of view; we are not; there are only 2% interconnections and, as a result, we have been endorsed by this ability to set a reference price on gas on the Iberian Peninsula. Why until June 30th? I have also told Mr Echenique, we are open, this is a dynamic plan, it is an open plan; let us see exactly what the evolution of war is, what the economic and social consequences of this war are in our country. But, of course, I do want to say that this government, as I said in my first speech, is the same government that defended the European funds, it is the same government that approved the ICO credits, which approved the extraordinary benefits for the self-employed, which approved the extraordinary ERTs at the worst time of the pandemic. In short, we are the same Government. And it seems to me, Your Honor, unfair - but you have already done so with the vote on labour reform - that you criticize this government for labour reform, because I believe that one of the fundamental elements to ensure that social stability and social peace is precisely the sense of state that trade unions and employers are showing. On the fallen benefits of heaven, Your Honor, if this is the government that set it in motion! We were the first European government to set it up in September 2021. It is now one of the measures taken by the European Commission and the European Council. We bet, of course, on structural reforms. You referred to renewable energies. I would like to recall that this Congress and this Government are the first Congress and the first Government in the history of our democracy that we have passed a climate change law. We have an Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan, which is recognised by the European Commission as the strongest in moving towards this greater presence of renewable energy in the Spanish energy mix. When you talk, for example, about railway infrastructure, Mr Rufián, I would like to remind you that this government is clearly and decisively betting on the implementation of the investment, which is very important for Catalonia, as for the whole Mediterranean, as it is for the Mediterranean corridor. And when you speak, Your Honor, of that 15 plus 5, that is, 15 cents the Government of Spain and 5 cents the oil companies, what I want to tell you is that this is the first time that something like this has happened, that such a measure is applied in the forty years of Spanish democracy, and that, in fact, there are some oil companies that are not only applying a discount of 5 cents, but even 10 cents to everyone, and 10 cents added to the carriers. In any case, I would also like to remind you that, when we talk about gas stations in our country, we are talking about a highly heterogeneous sector, where 40%, where many of them are not flagged and therefore we also have to deal with their particular situation. We are not just talking about the big oil companies, but we are also talking about people who have their own small business and who obviously need the support of the Spanish Government in this situation. Mrs Nogueras, in her line, comes to say that virtually nothing of what the Spanish Government is doing is right, that everything is wrong, that Catalonia would be much better if it were independent and even says that since the financial crisis it has not been right. Your Honor, in less than two years we have practically recovered the previous levels of GDP that we had before this pandemic crisis and we have 20 million people occupied, something we have not had since before the financial crisis. I just want to remind you, at least to take care of the evolution of this crisis and the management and its outcome by the progressive coalition government, that in order to recover the pre-financial crisis employment levels it took ten years, almost ten years, and we, your honor, have taken less than two years to recover the previous levels of employment, not the pandemic, but the financial crisis. [[Applauds]] And you are right, Your Honor, you are right, there are many sectors affected, all sectors are affected. The situation of many citizens, of many companies, of industry is very serious, of course, but we must make an honest analysis of the origin of everything that is happening right now in the process of price developments. I just want to say that with that 9.8% rise in inflation that we have seen today, if we separate the underlying inflation, that is, if we discount the energy price and others from the evolution of the CPI, we are talking about 6.4 percentage points, that is, obviously, it is clear that they are impacting energy prices and food prices that are not elaborated on the evolution of the cost of living in our country. Does this mean that the Spanish Government is excused from its responsibilities? Of course not, Your Honor, of course not. That is why we have fought in Brussels to have precisely levers that would allow us to decouple the evolution of the gas price from the price of electricity. We now have to negotiate with Portugal and also with the European Commission to set that reference price, and we will do so, Your Honor, and it will be noted in the citizens' pocket. We are also taking unprecedented measures over these 40 years, such as helping consumers and transporters, with a reduction in the cost of diesel and petrol, to fill their car tanks. Therefore, Your Honor, of course we are talking about an extraordinarily complex situation, war, which is added to or superimposed on a pandemic, but the Government of Spain, Your Honor, has absolute empathy and determination. Our cause is social justice in order not only to protect and respond to the most affected groups, to the most damaged sectors, but also to be able to share the costs of this war equitably. By the way, to disqualify the efforts being made by the Spanish Government, Your Honor, with a new line of ICO credits worth EUR 10 billion in guarantees, as you have done, saying that this is not going to reach small and medium-sized enterprises or the self-employed, I do not think it is compatible with reality. Thanks to the ICO lines we launched with the pandemic, Your Honor, hundreds of thousands of jobs and businesses were saved in our country, and most of them are small and medium-sized enterprises. With our mistakes and our successes, Your Honor, we are doing what we have to do at a time of extraordinary complexity. Mr Bel, I will tell you that I am very grateful that you anticipate the support for the national plan that we approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers. You raise a question, and that is why we limit the rent price to 2%. If you have the opportunity to read the text of the body of the royal decree law you will see that for the big forks it is 2% and for the small owners, unless otherwise agreed, it is that 2%. And why? It is not a discretionary decision, it is the competitiveness guarantee index and, therefore, we stick to it. I hope that you have been able to answer this question with this. Mr Errejón, in two weeks there have been two appearances, one from the Foreign Minister and now mine. The European Council, ladies and gentlemen, always has the custom of holding a press conference after which the leaders appear to be accountable for the progress, conclusions and agreements that have been reached in it, so I do not think there is a problem with this. I disagree with your position on Morocco. We have the same will as other governments with different signs and we want the best relations between Spain and Morocco. As I said earlier, Your Honor, since you link both appearances, I will tell you that, in this agreement we have achieved with Morocco, what moves me as President of the Government is the same will I had in Brussels to reach an agreement in defence of the interests of Spain, Spain and the Spanish. This is the case, and it gives me the feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that when you talk about this agreement, you forget the Spaniards, you forget your interests, you forget that it is priority, fundamental and decisive for Spain to have the best relations with a strategic partner and with a geographical neighbour like Morocco. And I insist, what there is is one more step. There is no turn, there is no wheel, there is one more step in a position that has been manifested by the different governments of Spain since 2007 -2007, 2012, 2015 - within the United Nations, within the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and aligned with what the main European powers such as France or Germany are saying. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that if you do not share the position, at least it will be clear, and above all it will be clear to whom I owe myself: I owe myself to the interests and the defence of those interests of the Spanish citizens as President of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] You have a debate that seems important to me, and it is the fair sharing of the costs of war. I believe, ladies and gentlemen - and other parliamentary groups have also said this - that we will have mistakes, but we are doing so. We have talked about, for example, that oil companies are going to contribute, that electric companies are going to see their profits reduced. We have been the first government in Europe to put it forward, to pass it as a royal decree law last September 2021, and today it is incorporated in the corpus of the communication of the European Commission. When we tell the big housekeepers that they can only increase their rent by up to 2%, I think that goes in the direction you aim. When we have adopted a minimum type of companies of 15% or when we have led at European and international level, together with many other countries, the imposition on large technological corporations or the tax on financial transactions that we have incorporated into our national legislation, I believe, Sir, that we are indeed moving in the direction to which you previously referred, of greater justice and a greater equitable sharing of burdens, especially of crises such as those we are experiencing, of war and the pandemic. Mr Baldoví, tell me when to approve the measures. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have tabled a number of proposals which have been approved for a long time - last year - and which have been extended over the last few months, which have also been the subject of debate in these Courts, such as - I repeat - 60% reduction in the taxes on light, 1.2 million protected households - which we are going to raise to 1.9 million thanks to this royal decree - 80% of the tolls reducing the electro-intensive industry or the reduction of the profits from the sky to large electrical corporations. It is true that there is often this great paradox in which the Government is criticized for not engaging in dialogue and imposing many of its measures, and when it does, it is said that it is late in adopting such measures. I think it is clear that we had a Rubicon to pass, which was the European Council on 24 and 25 March. We have done so, and I believe that with note; let us note, at least in the achievement we have achieved of that Iberian exception. In addition, we have spoken with all parliamentary groups, with all the autonomous communities, also with the social actors and the sectors concerned in order to try to make the right decisions on the measures we have incorporated into the national plan. I thank you very much for saying that the agreement is important. I believe that both Portugal and Spain will be able to reduce the price of electricity. On self-consumption, I was simply reminded by the third vice-president that, in fact, in this royal decree we redouble our commitment to self-consumption, incorporating a reserve of 10% of evacuation capacity into the high-voltage network. Therefore, the Spanish Government, since it arrived at the office - if we can say - and to the responsibilities, removed the sun tax and has made a decisive, determined, increasingly evident and necessary bet by self-consumption. On the Sahara, Your Honor, you refer to resolutions before 2007. I think it is also important that we refer to the resolutions after 2007. Mr President, I cannot share with you that we are not making structural reforms. Withdrawing the sun tax I believe it is a structural reform; boosting renewable energy is a structural reform; betting that European funds, by 40%, are devoted to the energy transition and, consequently, to the competitiveness of our industry, to the efficiency and energy savings, for example, of housing in our country I believe it is a structural reform; boosting renewable auctions is a structural reform, because it is also to give predictability to investors; betting on a reduction in the fallen benefits of the sky of large electricity companies also I believe it is a structural reform, as is the minimum vital income, as is the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage, as is the labour reform agreed by the social partners. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Spanish Government can be criticized for making this or the other mistake, but the Spanish Government cannot be criticized for its lack of ambition. I believe, Your Honor - I honestly believe - that this government is being ambitious enough in the key policies that today are absolutely essential if we are to gain energy autonomy. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if you see today what energy production is in Spain in 2021, when it reached a record of 45% of renewable energy and only 10% of gas, and compares with economies as important as Germany, to put it the case, you will see in a strong way what the Spanish Government has put forward for this energy transition in a structural way. Of course, listening to what the right or the right say to return to past times, I believe - and that is the commitment of the Government of Spain - that the energy transition to renewable energy, to energy efficiency and to energy saving is a complete one. We are not going to take a step back, but we are going to use others precisely to inoculate that discourse that not only denies climate change, but also consolidates situations that are not at last competitive for our industry either. Mr. Bal, you're criticizing me for everything. If we make a round of parliamentary groups, because we make a round of parliamentary groups; if I come to account for the European Council, because I come to account for the European Council. I, Your Honor, would not have to appear at the NATO summit, and I do. I compare, unlike other Presidents of the Government, to talk about the agreement with Morocco and also about the solution, one of the solutions that can be proposed for the crisis in Western Sahara. I also compare it to explain, at least succinctly, the national plan to respond to the crisis caused by the war. There will be time for the Government to debate and appear to speak of the royal decree law. Well, you criticize me for this, so perfect. You speak, obviously as VOX and as the PP... By the way, it always draws my attention, Your Honor, to the fact that it is the people, the liberals and the social democrats, you always put the last of us; it would have to be the social democrats, the populars and the liberals. In any case, why don't you preach with the example and do so where you rule, who rule with the far right? [[Applauds]] Of course, for you everything is reduced to lowering taxes. For you it all comes down to that: you have to lower taxes, no matter what. That's right, you ask me to lower taxes, increase spending and also reduce debt and reduce the public deficit. How it is noted that you have never ruled, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] We do lower taxes, Your Honor. We're lowering taxes to the price of light. In this royal decree law, Your Honor, we have lowered, for example, taxes on port fees. But it is not a general tax cut, Your Honor, because that would actually open a blow in the public coffers that would further aggravate the difficult situation that all European economies have in addressing a pandemic and in addressing the economic consequences of the war right now. But what seems to me to be important is that you bet on nuclear energy, which, obviously, as we all know, is a safe energy and is a cheap energy. Well, it's neither safe nor cheap, Your Honor. It's not, ma'am. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, you have once again raised your criticism of the position of the Spanish Government with regard to Morocco. Indeed, you say that you understand realpolitik or real politics, but that, in fact, you have to put body into it, you have to put heart into it, you have to put soul into it. I share it with you, Your Honor, of course I do, but putting your heart and your soul, Your Honor, is also, among all, to be proactive in the search for a solution to a conflict that has been dragging on for more than forty years. The comfortable thing would be to do nothing; the comfortable thing would be, Your Honor, to see how large European countries are moving their position; the comfortable thing would be to tell the new special envoy, the Secretary-General of the United Nations in Western Sahara, that Spain simply has no position. We, Your Honor, believe that we are here to solve problems. We want to help the Saharan people find a solution and, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we do so within the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, we do so with very important European countries such as Germany and France, and we certainly also do so in support of the task of the newly appointed special envoy. About how we're going to do it, Your Honor, I think you're more or less intuiting how we're going to do that benchmark gas price setting. Your Honor, you know it perfectly well, but in any case, we will have a chance to talk about it. I just remind you that this is a negotiation that we have to open with the Portuguese Government and also with the European Commission. Therefore, when we are talking about price and so on, it will not depend solely and exclusively on Spain, but will also depend on a three-way negotiation. Not only are we an actor, there are two more actors. In any case, we are talking about substantially lower prices than they are currently being paid. On Ukraine, I thank and share your reflection on economic sanctions and their effectiveness. That is why it is important to reiterate the conclusions of the European Council, to which you referred earlier. I think that isolation from the Putin regime is fundamental. The steps that have been taken by different countries before the International Criminal Court, by the European Union, by NATO and, also, by the United Nations General Assembly In two historic votes, it seems to me that they are of enormous importance. I believe that Putin has indeed made a strategic mistake, not only in terms of assessing Ukraine's resilience, but also in terms of the Union's response to this war. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, on energy policy, to which I referred earlier, I would like to remind you of these three stages. We now have an emergency measure that allows the Government of Spain and the Government of Portugal. We are going to present this week to the European Commission. We hope that we will soon be able to have the European Commission's response. The next day, immediately, it will be published in the State Official Gazette. But, of course, we have two additional steps. The first, joint purchases of gas and see if we are somehow putting a stop to the prices of gas imports to third countries, and the second, a reform of our energy market at European level, because obviously what we have is not adapted to the energy reality and we need to see where we want to go. On the CAP, I can only share what you have said. And on public indebtedness, I believe, Your Honor, that it is also important to incorporate into that concern that we all share a number of issues. First, for the first time, we have a European debt pooling that is channelled to European funds, which allows us to have a public investment like we did not have after the financial crisis. I think this is a very relevant step. Secondly, I share with you the need to adapt fiscal rules to the state of public finances in Spain and in all the Member States; we have had to deal with the unprecedented: firstly, a pandemic and, secondly, a war. Finally, I understand that it has been inferred - or at least I have inferred it - from your intervention the need to make a tax reform or, at least, if it is not necessary to make a tax reform - you will be able to correct me in your intervention - not to touch the fundamental pillars of our tax system so that we do not have, at last and at the end, when this crisis ends - because, indeed, it will end at some point - an even greater structural deficit. In that sense, Your Honor, I want to tell you that we are working on that line. I thank Mrs Aizpurua for her support and also for the proposals she has made to us. It has not been clear to me what diagnosis you make of this war conflict. It's not clear to me. You talk about that there are powers that do what they do is fight for energy - I say it in very colloquial and very simple terms - and I believe, Your Honor, that here there are two fundamental elements that at least I have tried - probably not very successfully - to say and share with you in my first intervention. Firstly, this corresponds to Putin's imperialist and expansionist anxieties, and secondly, I believe it is a direct attack on the European Union and a crude attempt to weaken a political project such as that of the European Union, based on human rights, freedoms, democracy and social justice. It is a project that he suffers and lives as a danger and, therefore, what he does is provoke a war that no one wants, except him, precisely to weaken the European Union. That is why it is important to be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that this war is having costs. It is having costs in terms of human lives, costs in terms of refugees and humanitarian crises, economic costs, social costs that we are suffering, for example, with an increase in prices. But there are two debates that we need to open. The first of these is what cost we will pay if we do nothing, if Europe and the international community look elsewhere, if we let Putin meet his objectives, which are to crush, when not to invade Ukraine and put a puppet government, as he has put in Belarus. I believe that the cost would be infinitely greater, Your Honor, because it was precisely touching and weakening the fundamental pillars of our way of living together in society and also in the world. And that is why I believe, Your Honor, that even if this cost we have to pay - and that is why I also ask for the unity of all - it is a cost that we must pay to safeguard and defend our way of life, our democracy and our political project, which is the European Union. That is why I am talking about European patriotism, because it is indeed European patriotism that saved us from the pandemic and what can save us from this tyrant, this autocrat, this yes, that is Putin. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the second of the debates is the one you have raised, and it is indeed the answer that we can give from Europe and also from Spain to the economic and social consequences of this war. And we're giving it to you, ma'am. It can be criticized that, at best, minimum living income would not have to rise by 15%, but by 20%. I can accept that, Your Honor, but what you cannot say is that the Spanish Government is not committed to it. It will be possible to criticise, Sir, that the Spanish Government could extend these measures not to 30 June, but a little further. Well, I agree, and we can even discuss this, but what cannot be discussed and cannot be discussed, Your Honor, is that the Spanish Government listens, dialogues, negotiates and agrees with the parliamentary groups, with the institutions and also with the sectors concerned a plan that responds to the particular, but also responds to the global. We live in very complex times, sir, but this Government is the same Government that faced the pandemic, with the same spirit of social justice, determination and unity. Mr. Botran, I deny you the greatest, Your Honor. With all the difficulties and, perhaps, with the errors and shortcomings that you may pose, we are proposing a fair sharing of the costs of war. And I remind you: fallen profits from the sky, large forks that can not climb beyond 2% their housing rentals, the property benefit of oil companies and tax reforms that we have also led from Spain in the minimum tax rate of companies, large digital corporations, the Tobin tax, in short, a wide list of new fiscal realities that we have been incorporating. Can we say that we need a reform of our tax system? There is no doubt that we need it, but I do not say it, as the European Commission says, and so does the International Monetary Fund, which are all but - I believe - dangerous reds, if I may say so. That is therefore a task that we must address, but, in fact, right now the whole of economic policy must focus on two things: the first, to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war and the second, to protect the economic recovery and job creation that we have been seeing in recent times, and that is what the Spanish Government is doing. To say that the Spanish Government is not carrying out structural reforms is also not in agreement with the truth, ladies and gentlemen. We are doing structural reforms in the field of energy, or are you not listening to Mr Abascal? Of course we're doing it. And you tell me, we don't have to increase the defense budget. I say to you: all the Member States of the European Union want to increase the defence budget. Well, you nod. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain has to increase its defence budget, because if this war in Ukraine has opened our eyes to something precisely, it is that peace is defended, peace is defended and Europe has to have greater deterrent capabilities than it has shown so far. This is it. [[Applauds]] And then there's an addition that you won't get away with, Your Honor. I have had the opportunity to speak to the Polish Prime Minister. I have been in Latvia, I have been in all the Baltic republics, I have been in Estonia, I have been in Lithuania, where we have deployed - in Latvia in this case - a very important military contingent of more than half a thousand soldiers. Your Honor, the security of this border is also the security of Spain, because it is European security. And just as if we had difficulties - let us hope it does not - with some country in the south of our borders, we would call for that support from the Member States of the European Union and also from the Atlantic Alliance, we must be responsible and solidarity with what they are suffering right now. I remind you that a few days ago, Your Honor, there was a bombardment by Russian troops 20 kilometres from the border with Poland. So how are we not going to learn a lesson from everything we're living? The lesson, Your Honor, is this. The lesson is that if all the Member States of the European Union - rightly so - are in favour of raising the defence industry's budget, if NATO does the same, for of course Spain, ladies and gentlemen, not because it is, let us say, reacting, but because of conviction it has to open a serious, calm, rigorous debate on the fact that we actually have to increase the defence budget. Because that border, that of the Baltic republics, that of Romania, that of Poland, that of so many others is also the border of Spain, it is the border of Europe and it is the border that we have to protect. [[Applauds]] And just as we have increased the public offer of employment by the State Security Forces and Corpses so that there will be no such thing as said by a deplorable delegate of the Government of Madrid, when governing the People's Party many years ago, that security is paid for by the one who can get it; just as we have increased the civilian guard and the National Police staff - just the opposite of what the people did - and we are reversing all that dynamic and betting on public security, Your Honor, we have to safeguard public security on our borders with military personnel. And, Your Honor, if anyone has any doubts about this, let them see the news, let them see the images, let them see what behavior Putin is having and they will realize it. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mrs Oramas, I am not going to enter into the question of Morocco and Sahara, because I think I have already answered that question. Your Honor, with all the flaws you may have and with all the mistakes you have been able to make, to say that the Spanish Government is not working and is not supporting palm trees and palm trees, it seems to me from every point of view unwarranted. Indeed, I am convinced that you have better arguments to criticize the Government of Spain and me, for sure. This is a government that is betting on the recovery and reconstruction of the island of La Palma. [[Applauds]] Mr Quevedo, simply tell him that I am very grateful for the support he gives me and for the recognition he makes of this achievement that we achieved last Friday at the European Council. In any case, you are talking about illegal proposals in relation to Morocco and Western Sahara, and I have told you, Your Honor, that the proposal that I defend as President of the Government is not illegal is within the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Mr. Adanero, you come up here and give me moral lessons, but you forget the most important thing, and it's that you've been expelled from your party for being a transfugue. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mr. Mazón, thank you for your support. Indeed, the Iberian exception will allow us to act. We also agree when you speak, Mr Mazón, that we have to intervene in the price of energy. You have heard me say on many occasions from this rostrum that we have to do it at European level. In short, Your Honor, I think we absolutely agree. On Morocco and unity, indeed, there is unity in opposition with absolutely different perspectives. Nor do I know very well, Your Honor, what your position is, whether your position is the self-determination of Western Sahara or to explore other avenues, such as, for example, this path that is embodied in United Nations Security Council resolutions. But, I insist, it is the same proposal that Germany is defending, which is defending France, with an addition, Your Honor, and it is that in the end, if an agreement is reached, it will have to be the one that the parties mutually recognize. This is the key, ladies and gentlemen. What we do is show a proactivity once a new United Nations representative or special envoy for Western Sahara is appointed, and I think that is where Spain has to be, in that proactive position. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, I know that you, like PP and VOX, consider that all evils are my fault, until Manolete's death, I have it clear every time you come up here. [[Laughter]] In any case, Your Honor, I will tell you that the problem with you is that we have a different position in the fundamentals, the energy transition. You don't believe in this climate change thing. You consider that the green energy transition and therefore the commitment to renewables, energy efficiency or energy saving are pantomimes of this ecological fanaticism, to which Mr Abascal referred earlier. So, what are we going to talk about, Your Honor? In any case, what I am telling you is that this energy proposal that you have would involve the condemnation of Asturias and Spain. I therefore believe that what we have to do is to bet on a much more competitive energy model for the industry in Asturias and Spain. Mr. Guitarte, you speak of the rural environment. This government has put on the table EUR 10 billion as a state policy, Your Honor, to meet the demographic challenge. This Government has incorporated as one of its vectors the formation and channelling of European funds, territorial cohesion, social cohesion, gender equality, energy transition and digital transformation. We are the only government in Europe that has done that. Therefore, I believe that at least the benefit of the doubt we have. In any case, Your Honor, I believe I have understood from your words that you will support the validation of this royal decree shock plan law. As I said before, I think it was Mr Errejón or Mr Baldoví - this is a government that is betting on self-consumption. We may be criticized for not going much faster, but that is a government that is betting on self-consumption, as we have also done in this royal decree law that we passed yesterday. And to Mr Gómez, spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank him for his words. Indeed, we are talking about a national plan that goes from the overall to the sectoral, and to this we must add, as you said earlier, the general state budgets, the European funds, the multiannual financial framework, the CAP, the REACT funds, in short, the cohesion funds. They are a huge amount of economic resources coming from Europe, also the result of the European negotiation that the Spanish Government has made, and that will allow us not only to consolidate this economic recovery, but also to try to give a fair response to these multiple crises that we are going through. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by reflecting on the words of Mr Gómez, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. These crises that we are experiencing, the pandemic and the war, are painful crises, costly crises for all, there is no sector that is free to suffer the impact of the war. The question is how to respond to these crises. And we, as I said at the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, will respond as we respond to the pandemic, with justice, with determination and with the greatest possible consensus and unity. I hope that this debate, ladies and gentlemen, goes beyond the nuances, except for the exceptions that are usually characterized by not even taking the phone, we can give a message of unity and agreement, which I believe is what we need right now and deserve the Spanish citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u72	Thank you, President. Mr President, in your second speech you have again asked us for the same thing as at the beginning of the first one: unity. But just as at the beginning of the first, we were talking to you about a divided government, what I have to say to you is that, in the course of this plenary session, what you have is a more divided government. He has again outdone himself: this is the first time that members of the Government have protested against the Government itself during a parliamentary session. And this happened here today: Secretaries of State of his Government were outside, at the gates of Congress, expressing themselves before the position of the Government. [[Applauds]] I hope this will lead you to realize that your problem is not the People's Party. I hope I do not hope that you have realized, by listening to all the interventions that have emerged during this appearance, that perhaps it is you who is the problem. Because if we all agree that I'm not steaming the right way, aren't you the one who's wrong? That has happened here today and should lead you to reflect. [[Applauds]] He also talks to us about NATO. Indeed, we are extremely pleased that the NATO summit will be held in Spain, as pleased as it was that it was the promoters in 2018 that that was the case. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, yes, in January 2018. I understand that you consider that you have more time in the government, but you arrived a little later. We are getting a long way ahead of us, but by the time you arrived at the NATO summit it was already closed by a People's Party government. [[rumors]] [[Protests.-A lady MP: That's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u73	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u74	But quiet. Quiet. I ask you to be calm, because I believe that the most important thing is that you know and know what the position of the People's Party is, that when your governing partners fail in all the agreements to be adopted within NATO, you know that this party will be with you, of course. And it's important to repeat here, so you don't forget. He's asking us about the Sahara. Look, whoever took a turn in relation to the Sahara was you, not us. We don't have to explain anything, because we're still in the same place, and who comes to explain the turn in your policy is the government, you. [[Applauds]] What is happening is that it has become clear how you understand state policy and what is behind it is how you understand your way of governing. You consider the State to be you; in fact, there has been a moment you have said: the decision I have made. This is the great problem, which you consider a state policy to be a policy that only concerns the scope of the President's decision, without consulting the rest of the political forces, and I say that I am also consulting in the sense of seeking agreements and that it has the support of the House, as it should be. That's what you're wrong about. Mr President, Spain is having a very delicate time, very hard indeed. It's been two years since we ever thought we were going to live. But this is a great country, with forty-seven million Spaniards rising up every day and striving to move forward, and what they need and deserve is an effective and up-to-date Government. And that's what's wrong with him. You ask us to be united in the answer, but the problem is that you interpret it and summarize it in that we are united in your answer. For you alone and exclusively there is one thing to say yes to what you do, not that the rest of the parliamentary groups can propose alternatives, analyse them and incorporate them. [[Applauds]] That's what you need in those moments. That is dialogue, that is agreement and the rest is imposition. You're getting too used to this being lentils, if you want to eat them and, if not, leave them. But we have a responsibility. If we see that your answers are not necessary for this society, if they are not fast and if they are not effective, understand that we cannot accompany you. And we cannot accompany you there, but we can propose measures that go in another direction to make this country work, and that is what we do. He has pointed out in his way of reflecting on and intervening in some resignation when he talks about all economic sectors, as if nothing could be done. Of course you can do it, and a lot. Do you know what happens to all economic sectors and to all citizens in this country? They know that there is a war, because they see reality, they know reality and they learn about reality. But they also know that the harshness of the consequences it is having on the Spanish economy is far superior to those of other economies in our nearest countries, they know what is happening in France and Portugal. And the Spaniards wonder: why do we have harder consequences? For the economic policy of the Government. Why are situations of undersupply occurring in Spain that are not occurring in other countries in our environment? Also for the government's economic and transport policy, because other governments would not have allowed their country to stand still, and you have been given exactly the same. A minimally responsible transport minister would have taken the bull by the horns from the very beginning and sought to reach agreements, and would not have waited for this country to be on the verge of collapse. [[Applauds]] When we talk about the economic situation, we see how inflation in Spain is not a single and exclusive issue of war. We closed the year at 6.5%, we were in February at 7.6% and now we are at 9.8%. And yes, 3.8% is already structural, because it is the underlying inflation. You don't think so? As has been said about 3.8%, I believe, Mr President, that we have a big problem. About lowering taxes, yes, we like to lower taxes, it works to lower taxes. But, Mr President, the statement by La Palma will not deny me that you signed it. So what we are demanding is that you do for once what you yourself have signed. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: All right!-Applause]] This would be a good exception, because it would generate a lot of confidence in the Spanish. But you can do more. Since you came to the government, public spending has risen by 21.7%. All this public expenditure that has risen is not precisely in the welfare state, and that is where we can act. Yeah, not everything's a welfare state. The welfare state can be maintained without the need to spend on things that are unnecessary. Inefficient spending can be avoided by looking for efficiency in spending, and that is the big difference. The energy debate would give rise to a monographic debate, but we already know that this in this House is quite complicated. But answer one question: how many kilometers of electricity and gas interconnection have been inaugurated since you came to the government, where it has been almost four years? Zero. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Zero!-Applause]] But do you also know what your third vice president was saying?: there is no need to unnecessarily extend short-haul infrastructure in the medium term. That is why we have more difficulties than other countries have. Finally, Mr President, inflation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u75	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u76	I'm finishing up. Inflation is the invisible tax that impoverishes families. It is the hardest for each of the Spaniards who are going through the worst. And do you know what we have been hearing in this House during the months leading up to the outbreak of war? Well, the collection went well in our country. There were already the prices fired, and here we were constantly talking, both by the First Vice President and by the Minister of Finance, about how happy we had to be for how it was collected. That is, more taxes as a result of inflation, more public spending, more public debt, more public deficit. This is what eventually collapsed a country and brought us to ruin.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u77	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u78	This is what needs to be brought back, Mr. Sanchez. Our party is about putting forward proposals and initiatives that will allow you to correct this economic policy that you are carrying. On this path of more taxes, more spending, more deficit and more public debt we are not going in the right direction. If you want initiatives to correct it, here we are and we will be happy to put them, as we do in plenary after plenary. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u80	It has proved to me surprising and exciting to see Mr Sánchez begin his intervention by asking for the withdrawal of one of the qualifications that I have used in this rostrum. I have called him autocrat and has generated such indignation in the president that, as I have few readings of philosophy and law, as you know, I have had to consult the dictionary of the Royal Academy, which says that autocracy is the form of government in which the will of one person is the supreme law. It turns out that you have changed the position of the Sahara without your Government, without your party and without this Parliament. [[Applauds]] I understand it bothers you, but tell me what we call this, Mr. Sanchez. I occasionally read yesterday an article published yesterday - it is among my few readings, Mr Sánchez - by a former judge of the Constitutional Court, Mr Manuel Aragón, appointed by you in the Constitutional Court, which is entitled Presidential Parliamentarism, in which he denounces the presidential drift of Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] What do we call the way in which you have acted in the Sahara and what we call the way in which you have conducted yourself during the epidemic, passing over this Parliament and trampling on the Constitution itself, according to rulings of the Constitutional Court? [[Applauds]] You here call us many things and I am not going to appeal to the president to remove them from the Journal of Sessions. We want you to record everything you say about us, to record, so that you will retract and to be ashamed of all of you. You want it removed. I, of course, do not wish to be removed. I keep it and, moreover, I think we have justified why we say this about you. You think it is the supreme law, because you have sent a letter in which you say that Spain has a position, and you are not Spain, you are not even the President of Spain, you are the President of the Government of Spain. You are not the representative of the State. You're not the head of state. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You can't go around without consulting Parliament, making announcements you don't even know about the Council of Ministers. I don't have a Ph.D. in Philosophy, it's true, Mr. Sanchez. I'm not like you, who has a Ph.D. in Economics. [[Laughter]] We already know that you are a great economist, perhaps that's why Europe's worst data: at the head of youth unemployment; together with the countries with the worst inflation data, with the worst unemployment data, with the worst debt data. Well, you're a great economist, we all know that. [[Applauds]] He's come up here to say we spread bubbles. I have quoted news from the newspapers, one from the newspaper El Mundo in connection with the disappearance of the Philosophy. Of course, you say that we have extended a bubble, but I have just taken a tweet from a gentleman who I believe is one of the government's supporters - he is usually here behind - Mr. Javier Sánchez Serna, who says: 'The PSOE intends to deny what is a fact, that philosophy does not have its own subject in ESO. In The LOE ethics was mandatory in the fourth of the ESO. In LOMLOU, optional. Now he's gone. Civic Values is not going to be a subject linked to the departments of Philosophy. We know what it's gonna be. You confuse philosophy with ideology. [[Applauds]] You confuse philosophy with ideological and political indoctrination, with multiculturalism, gender theory and all those things that you like so much and that you now care so much about Mr. Rufián, because he tells you that you are not in what you have to be, that you are not in the things of eating. [[The Lord]] You have also reproached us for the fact that Algeria has suspended flights from Iberia and repatriations, published today in El Confidencial - you complain to El Confidencial - which cites official sources from Algeria, and to this I refer. It's okay for you here to explain, but they don't seem very convincing, given the things you usually say here. I was surprised to see that the President of the Government's appearances have become a succession of attacks on VOX, but I see it almost with satisfaction. VOX is the enemy to beat. No, Mr Echenique, who always listens from the corner, we are not against science, what happens is that you are against common sense. I mean, what can we not produce with coal but can we buy thermal energy from Morocco? Are they from another planet? Do they have another atmosphere? As you know so much about science, I'd like you to explain it to us. [[Applauds]] And no, Mr. Rufián, VOX has condemned Putin long before you and long before your coup partners, who took advantage of Putin to attack our Constitution and our unity. [[Applauds]] And what VOX has done in Madrid is something similar to what the President of the Government has done: to distinguish between Putin and the Russian people for the help of the Russian people during the 11M; by the way, the date from which separatism and the left returned to power. [[Applauds]] And no, Mr. Rufián, the Spaniards must not be filled with the refrigerator from the government; what must be done is not to plunder it, as you all do, by spending the money of the Spaniards on their climatic, multicultural or gender delusions of the silly genre. [[Applauds]] You know they're wrong. Mr Sánchez asks what else has to happen in order for us to respond together. Well, I'll answer it to you. Look, first of all, that your partners are not the enemies of unity. Secondly, that you do not permanently demonize four million Spaniards and then complain that we do not take your phone. Thirdly, may you reply to what you are asked, to whom you are loyal, to what you owe, because you have made decisions without the support of Parliament, your Government, your party and your electorate. It is very likely that once again we will be left alone, Mr Sánchez, voting against your new tug. We don't care, we also stand alone voting against your unconstitutional states of alarm, we also stand alone in this House voting against climate law and we also stand alone in the motion of censure that we are presenting against you. We're used to it. We feel accompanied by more and more Spaniards. Mr. Sanchez, we don't want to be your accomplices. It's ruining Spain, you and your climate policies. They are not plagues that arise because of their tastes or the effort to desecrate graves, no, it is their policies that bring ruin on the international stage. And he comes here and tells us about superfluous spending, about public spending, laughs at those we propose to lower taxes, says they have already put the AIReF to monitor superfluous spending. Here is another bubble: Sanchez increases the Ministry of Presidency's budget for advertising by 2300 %; the money will be spent on advertisements on radios, televisions, print media, the Internet and other platforms. [[shows a press clipping]] I guess for your private bubbles. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u81	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u82	A couple of prelims and a couple of comments for the president. The two precedents are, of course, for the People's Party and for VOX. Mrs. Gamarra, you've made me so funny. Well, it really wasn't funny to me, but I was surprised to hear you talk about demonstrations that I didn't understand because part of the government, specifically United We can, had manifested out there this morning, even some Secretary of State - I think he refers to Enrique Santiago - in favour of the Saharan people. He is right, it is a contradiction, but it is that they are part of the reality, especially of the present and of the future, the contradictions in complicated government coalitions such as those that are the protagonists of the Spanish government and those that are the protagonists of us in Catalonia. I'll tell you what. Not you with VOX, but we with the different have and will have difficulties and the PSOE and United We can as well. But I am curious that you speak of manifestations that you do not understand or of manifestations that are unfaithful, you, when just over a month ago you, some of you and with hundreds of militants have manifested themselves in Genoa to cast out the one who was your president, to shout at him as a traitor, when many of you, at most, what you were doing was to shut up or hide or go. So don't give us lessons here to the left of manifestations you don't understand. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal, anyone misses it. I've been about to miss your intervention, I confess, but anyone misses it. The truth is, I don't know if Philosophy is going to stop teaching in this country. What I know is that it has been poorly imparted in the past, because if it had been imparted, if people had been instructed in philosophy, you would not have four million voters. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] I'm sure not. I'm sure not. Mr. Ortega Smith told me when he was coming down - Mr. Ortega Smith likes to talk a lot, especially when he's not here -: remember the key. I understand that it refers to your vote against in Madrid to withdraw Putin's Gold Key from the Community of Madrid. This is a fact. But you have also voted against declaring Almudena Grandes a favorite daughter. [[Rumors]] Everyone is what they are, and you are fascists. Fascists. [[Applauds]] As for what he says about taxes, that taxes go to the government, even to us and to us, taxes go to finance - I repeat once again - health, public services, public schools; you do not know it because you go to private schools, but also public schools. And you too make the adalides of the working class, and it seems to me extremely dangerous. They put themselves at the forefront of demonstrations, even calling for a strike. Every time someone like you, Mr. Abascal, calls the strike, I listen to you, because you have been on strike for forty-five years and you have to listen to the professionals. [[Laughter]] Mr. President, I'm only going to tell you two things. He has spoken to us about international legality and even told us about the UN. He has told us that his position, his turn, his betrayal of the Saharan people is in accordance with international legality, with the UN. I will only tell you, and it is data, that you have violated seventy-four UN resolutions, from 1958 to 2021, with that betrayal - we call it betrayal of the Saharan people. [[Applauds]] Only in 2021, last year, seven resolutions were adopted that recognized something as obvious as the future of the Saharan people had to be decided through a referendum of self-determination. And when you say no, that perhaps the way is autonomy, you are denying your self-determination to the Saharan people. Not to mention Philip in 1978 with his fist raised in the Sahara desert. But I'll tell you something else. Twenty years ago, one George Bush promised many things to one Joseph Mary Aznar to do according to what things. Perhaps these are the same promises that a Mr. Biden makes to you today. Mr. Bush didn't keep one of those promises, not one, and Mr. Aznar will pass on to history as it is; I'm not going to qualify it, everyone knows it. I really don't wish you the same, take note. Don't laugh, take note of what happened to Mr. Aznar. Everyone knows that Morocco is a strategic ally in that area of the United States. Please don't call us fools or fools. I understand that there are many things I can't say out of responsibility, but don't laugh. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u83	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u84	Thank you, President. You, the spokesman for the Socialist Group, and also the Foreign Minister, are repeatedly talking about an agreement between the parties. Which part do you mean? Could you clarify that for us? To the colonizing powers, Spain and Morocco? Does this agreement include the Saharan people? Because they are asking for a referendum, in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations. And you, you specifically, Mr Sánchez, are wrong. The 2007 Moroccan Plan, to which it has also repeatedly referred, has never been endorsed by the United Nations, and more than three hundred experts in international law say so. I don't think you understood me either when I was talking about the ICOs. On them, I repeat, the last thing small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people need is to be more indebted. There is one issue that many here have not just understood: small and medium-sized enterprises do not want to throw out those workers. To insinuate this is to have no idea what 99.8% of Catalonia's business fabric represents. In fact, a worker for a SME is a great asset, even his own boss, not a number that gets taken off and put on. Perhaps they are for the Florentines, the Botines and the stage, but not for the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. So, I insist, press the compensation button with the same agility with which you press the collect button. And - I finish - I have said it many times here: the best business of a bad business is to close it, and precisely because we want future... [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] It seems to me that this is very easy to understand: the more than 52 billion euros in taxes we pay the citizens of Catalonia want to manage them in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u85	Thank you. Mr Errejón Galván, you have the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. I am focusing on the issue of burden-sharing to deal with the crisis. You, Mr President, on 4 March proposed a major income pact. What is a great income pact? It is a commitment by which the different social sectors, as they assume to be misguided, accept that they will share the efforts. So, a priori, this doesn't sound bad, but not any income covenant is a good income covenant, not any covenant is a fair covenant. The difference that makes an income pact fair or unfair is basically how much each party is going to put. And so far, how much has each part put? How much has each sector of Spanish society put into the income pact? How much have you shared in the burdens of the pandemic and now in the energy and economic crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine? According to official data, the fortune of the richest has grown twice as fast as the economy has grown since the beginning of the pandemic, today they treasure 27 billion euros more, while - says FOESSA - there are two and a half million new poor. That has been the really existing income pact to date. And this does not necessarily have to be his fault: it is that the functioning of the market economy, if it does not intervene with decision, always divides the costs down. This requires vigorous intervention by the State. To end neoliberalism is not that the state intervenes more, it is that it intervenes more in favor of those below, it is that it balances the social balance. And right now there are good conditions for you to do so. I am not in favour of that idea of separating moral and material issues. It seems to me that at this moment progressive Spain needs to get out of the defensive situation and needs an injection of morale, it needs to see its government taking a clear stand for the vast majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u88	Mr President, no, I have never ruled, I have spent twenty-seven years as a civil servant managing the general interests. I don't know what you've done for the last twenty-seven years. It gives me the feeling that you have not read our proposals, and, as for when I say that you have to reduce advisers, I do not know whether I will have to tell you that you increase them or that you are a little more prepared, because you have not understood anything of the role we gave Mr Bolaños at the meeting we had. You say that our solutions are to lower taxes. No, deflating the IRPF rate is not lowering taxes, it is not raising them, which is different, very different. When I tell you to adjust fuel taxes, as the price of fuel is rising, what I'm telling you is to maintain the collection, not lower the collection. It is not, as you say, that we leave the state defenseless, or something like that. No, in short, is that the Tax Agency does not take advantage of the rise in the tax base by applying certain rates. You, who are cheap, I'm sure you understand this. [[Applauds]] Is nuclear energy really not safe or cheap? We have seven nuclear reactors in operation in Spain, are we in danger? I mean, have you tried to transfer to Spanish citizenship now in the replica that has made me that nuclear energy is not safe? Are you crazy in Europe when you have included nuclear energy in the new energy taxonomy? Are you crazy in Hungary, Romania, Czech Republic, France, Belgium, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Sweden, Switzerland, Finland, Germany, Turkey and Lithuania? Do you know how many nuclear reactors there are in Europe? There are 178 nuclear reactors. We're in danger, therefore! This is what you really wanted to say. And you laugh at the opposition telling me that if I put people, social democrats or liberals first. I'm laughing. Look, I'll put you in the order that you want me to put you in so long as you throw Podemos out of the government. [[Applauds]] People, liberals, Social Democrats or whatever you want. Do you remember, so much that you ask me for responsibility, what happened at the Andalusian Council, where it governs Citizens with the People's Party, in the last budget procedure? We offered the Socialist Party to sign them, we offered an agreement, and what did the Andalusian Socialist Party decide? Vote with VOX the budgets of the Andalusian Board against. Therefore, you fulfill your obligations, do not ask me mine. Funcas has just thrown you a jar of cold water on the government's measures and has just said that, at best, inflation will drop a point. And he asks Funcas to you, and I tell him from here: How are you going to pay the pensions? Are they going to continue indexing them to the CPI? 9.8% are going to keep looking at them? I have not ruled, but what I do is read to those who understand that they know about these issues. I think that today the Spaniards were very calm when they heard their president, the president of the government, say: Man, you complain about fuel taxes, when we have some of the lowest taxes in Europe, we could even raise them! Anyone who goes to the gas station today to pay 80 or 100 euros for filling the tank of his car will say: Man, elsewhere they are worse, as my President of the Government says! With regard to Algeria - Algeria, not Morocco - why don't you tell us something about Algeria? Why don't you tell us if you have spoken to Algeria, if you have tried to minimize the impact of the breakdown of diplomatic relations with Algeria? The only new thing you have said is that we have an agreement with Morocco. Look, an agreement is a bilateral relationship in which the two parties have to give something to each other. What has Morocco given us? If Morocco has given us nothing, it is not an agreement, it is a surrender. You say that when it came to Perejil, those gentlemen made it worse. Of course, the usual thing about bipartisanism: I do it wrong because one day they also did it wrong, Aznar did not show up here and we heard from the press. Do you really tell the Spaniards: gentlemen, always find out about bad governments of bipartisanism? You could do better than how bad they did in Perejil. And I ask you, please, in the reply, to correct one thing that you have said because it is important for Spain. You say that you are surprised by certain parliamentary groups, that they are opposed to the right of self-determination in Catalonia and yet are here demanding self-determination of the Sahara. Has it really equated the right to self-determination of a decolonization process that is in the Charter of the United Nations with the non-existent right of self-determination of Catalonia? Please clarify this, really! [[Applauds]] And yes, although I have not ruled - it makes you very graceful my intervention, and I really am glad of your solace - I ask you, indeed, to thin out the Administration, to tell the citizens that not only they have to fasten the belt, that the Administration will also do so. As another spokesman has already said, the Ministry of the Presidency's advertising budget has increased by 2300 %. Little seems to me to save the image of the CIS, from then on, as it is, but, in fact, there are more than a thousand two hundred advisers and twenty-two ministries, twice as many as we had before. Again I say this to you: I have not ruled, but I read the report of the Institute of Economic Studies on the efficiency of public expenditure, and it turns out that in the table we are in the middle low zone of the countries of the European Union and of the OECD, in place 29, and we have lost ten points since 2019 in efficiency in the application of public expenditure. And the only thing you're telling us is that they've created the AIReF. Man, of course! And do you know that the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Committee on Íñigo Errejón de Calidad Democrática is voting against the independence of the AIReF in the exercise of its functions? Even to deny independence in the performance of its functions of the AIReF and the Banco de España is coming the Socialist Parliamentary Group! [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. I just want to say that, in fact, State policy requires coming here to the Congress of Deputies and listening to the opposition. You're very offended because you've been called Putin. I have called you the Sun King, and I have not called you the Sun King because he is the king of photovoltaics, but because you look like Louis XIV. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u90	Mr President, have you really come to the conclusion that no one is against this agreement with Morocco? Is it true that, after all the discussion we have had, this conclusion has been reached? I don't think he's such a misunderstanding. I understand that you have certainly read a note passed to you by Minister Albares, because he spent the whole Commission repeating the same thing. But, as much as it is repeated, the truth is that here there has been a rather unanimous disagreement, except for his group, that the step that has been taken with regard to Spain's position towards the Sahara is not correct and is not acceptable. We also do not know the details of the agreement you have reached, but in any case, if that premise is broken, we do not agree. I tell you clearly, in case you haven't understood, but I think the others have said the same thing. You talk about solving the matter, but solving the matter is not positioning yourself with a part, and you have positioned yourself with a part. You said to generate confidence, that the most comfortable thing is to be quiet but that you have to be proactive. Indeed, it will have to be proactive, but in compliance with UN resolutions. UN Resolution 2602, which you repeat a lot, says: 'Free will of the people of Western Sahara, within the framework of the provisions, in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations'. The one that is said to be regarded as a step, that Morocco, autonomy...The same as the proposal made by the Frente Polisario. It appears in the preamble, but the resolutive part is this. And you, in the end, talking about this being 'the most' are taking a step towards seeking a solution within the framework of that autonomy of the Sahara and what you are doing is eliminating the possibility of a referendum that has independence as one of its options, and, in addition, you are accepting, therefore, that the territory of the Sahara is a territory of Morocco. They've changed their position. When you asked whether or not we are in favour of self-determination, you were suggesting that the Spanish Socialist Workers Party does not defend the self-determination of the Saharan people. Yes, of course we defend it, and we also defend what the United Nations says, which is exactly that, that there may be that possibility, because everything for the Saharans but without the Saharans is not worth it, they will have to decide. And, positioning with the most, that more that appears in the letter, is already being put on the side of one of the parties, and, therefore, is also seeking a solution exclusively within that framework. You'll have to ask the Saharans. I think if they wanted to be more proactive and find a solution, that wasn't the step they had to take. They should have contacted the Saharans before. And, by the way, we would like, I think, everyone, to know what the agreement is about if there is agreement beyond that letter and to say that Ceuta, Melilla and Canarias are going to be quiet for three or four months, although I do not know if that part is so. You were telling me that I already know about the issue of gas price, the solution, etc. Actually, I don't know. I can see it because we have been doing so many laps and because today in the media it is advancing that the same solution goes precisely because of what we proposed last week, that is, not to the deficit of the system, there are no budgets, to debt, but to distribute that burden among those who are part of the system. What's going on? You voted no and didn't come out, but now it turns out that's going to be the solution. Well, I don't know what the solution is, tell me if that's going to be, but today I still don't have the text. I insist on the subject of CO2, they run out of up to 25%. He hasn't answered me if the 65 million is less than 25% or not, they run out of up to 25%. I would also like to insist on the issue of electro-intensives: expand the possibility for other companies to be included in the electro-intensives, as is the case in the European regulation. As far as debt sharing is concerned, Mr President, yes, but it is limited to the funds. Before, I was referring to the Spanish debt, to that 120 %. What am I worried about? Because if inflation becomes structural - I wish and wish war would end soon and satisfactorily, and so on -, the types will necessarily rise, and therefore, or grow, improve productivity, or we will be in a very complex situation. And that's why we have to get right with the transformative projects now, that there are possibilities. And there I don't see that they're very right or very diligent, and then I'll go to the control question. I didn't ask for a tax reform. What I was referring to, Mr President, was the European fiscal rules, the debt limits, the stability pact. Now those rules are suspended, but, of course, what's going to happen to this? I also take this opportunity to ask you about another matter relating to debt and its mutualization. We are also talking about new funds, in which there would be precisely European mutualisation. We are talking about funds for investment in defence, immigration, energy. Is there really any of this or are it just speculation in the press or wishes on the part of some? I'd like you to shed some light on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u92	Mr. Sanchez, I'm going to try to be brief and I'm going to try to clarify some things. The first is about our position on the war in Ukraine. And I make a clarification that I will accompany with a request: Mr Sánchez, do not want to sow doubt about our position on Ukraine. I don't know why you did it, I don't know the reasons and the truth is I'm curious. In any case, I will make this clear to you, given that inexplicably you seem to need some clarification. Look, we have denounced and rejected the Russian invasion and have repeatedly demanded the immediate withdrawal of the Russian army from Ukraine. We have signed the joint initiatives that have taken place in this House, and you, who so much denounce the unfounded attacks on the right, should not sow doubts to attack us. He says he is not clear, but, as I see he says, I will literally repeat to him what I showed him just a month ago from this very rostrum: We reject and denounce the serious attack on Ukraine perpetrated by the Russian army at Putin's command. The attack on Ukraine violates international law and violates the human rights of its people. We consider this attack unjustifiable and urge Russia, in line with the UN call, to put an end to this military action and withdraw its military forces from Ukrainian territory immediately. We say it clearly and forcefully. Another thing is, Mr Sánchez, that you do not like us not to support your war euphoria by sending weapons or increasing the defence budget, nor are we going to support or whitewash an organization like NATO, because I told you a month ago too, and I repeat it now that we can vigorously reject the invasion of Ukraine without having to legitimise or support or strengthen NATO. And as I was saying, I've come here to clarify some things and I'm also going to tell you that what's not clear to me is your formula for sustaining the investment you're making, the investment you're going to need, if it's going to be through cuts and indebtedness, or it's going to increase income by applying taxes to electricity, banks and big fortunes. It has not been clear to me whether he will make a tax reform or not and whether he will help the rich to sustain the crisis or not. Nor has it been clear to me how it will ensure that workers will not suffer a wage devaluation and will not lose their jobs, or how it will ensure that pensioners and workers do not lose purchasing power with this CPI fired almost 10%. This is what you must answer, Mr Sánchez, because these are the answers that citizenship is waiting for. By the way, you said that no group has questioned the agreement with Morocco. I think he has been confused again, because the only group in this House that supports that agreement, betraying the Saharan people, is his, none else. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u93	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, if something has become clear in this second round of interventions, it has been the opposition's zero point of view, because they continue to deepen the attacks on the Government without realising concrete measures and without guiding a position on the issues that we are dealing with here today, among others, the relationship with Morocco, the position taken by the People's Party, VOX and other formations with regard to the relations between Spain and Morocco. [[The lady]] It is true that we are talking about an extremely complex, complex legislature from the outset: pandemic, war crisis, economic consequences in all areas, obviously social, but I want to convey a direct message to the citizens of this country on behalf of both the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government, and I want to clarify something very important. To simplify the message as much as possible, we can say that we are talking about a government and parliamentary groups that prioritize citizenship, that prioritize well-being and deal with these challenges that society is facing, in the face of a destructive opposition, that sees only the dark side and that has only one goal, that is to overthrow a government. That is the synthesis of what happens here a week yes and another one too, and today they have shown it. Mrs Gamarra, you rise to the rostrum and point out to the President as the most responsible for absolutely everything, and this is said by a political party which has imploded and which seems to want to be an amendment to all the policies it has carried out and to the opposition that it has done over the past two years. I am going to tell you something and I am going to tell you with the support of my group: we have the worst opposition at the worst time. [[Applauds]] Yes, we have the worst position at the worst time, the worst opposition at the worst time!, and I want the entire citizenship of this country to know. We cannot rely on a parliamentary group which, whenever it can, attacks the Government of Spain, even by attacking the general interest. They say that the tax agreements are not being implemented. We have explained our position when it comes to lowering taxes, of course we have, and it has been moved by the President of the Government. Now, has the People's Party taken any action in the autonomous communities where it governs in this regard? [[Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo and Mrs. Borrego Cortés: Yes, yes.-Rumores]] You know perfectly well that the answer is no, you know perfectly well that no. Normally, in these types of appearances parliamentary groups with a sense of state take over the actions of the Government of Spain; they may have maintained discrepancies in the issues in which they considered it appropriate, but they have usually acted since the example. As the President of the Government commented, in the conflict in Perejil the opposition leader was informed just when they were already carrying a military deployment. That is the example given by the People's Party and which contrasts with the actions of the President of the Government, who appears before any scenario in the Congress of Deputies to give the information that is appropriate. I would like to move, in relation to some of your statements, Mrs Gamarra, that we are very concerned that you will not answer us about the position of the People's Party with regard to Morocco, because you do not give us an answer. Is the People's Party in favour of restoring relations with Morocco? Is the People's Party in favour of maintaining a coordinated strategy with a strategic and allied partner in trade, economics, migration, anti-terrorism policy? What do you have to say here, beyond a populist position? It is a direct question, because it seems that Morocco is very sensitive to providing and transferring favourable information in relation to the position of the Spanish Government in this regard, and then to public opinion they maintain a completely contradictory position, which they have always done in these two years on foreign policy. As for VOX, it is the tone, the derogatory tone they use permanently, the tone of contempt. You stand uniquely and exclusively for your voters, the voters with whom you count or have counted VOX in the last general elections, but you despise a government democratically elected by the citizenry because you prefer a dictatorship to a democratic government! [[Applauds]] That is not correct and the whole country should know. That drift of confrontation and the search for confrontation on the street will lead to destruction, because of course this country is warning of the serious mistakes that a political formation is making against the welfare state, against the state of autonomy and against democracy, against democracy! [[Ms. Rueda Perelló points to members of the Government]] And, yes, they must rely on real information. They can't go up here and mention a tweet to then defame, because neither the Spanish ambassador to Algeria nor this government, there is no public institution that endorses the three lies that the VOX Parliamentary Group has transferred from this rostrum. Iberia continues to operate in the air with Algeria, the company itself has communicated. In the field of education, it has become clear, the President of the Government has made it clear. Nor has there been any announcement by the Moroccan Government about Morocco's request for sovereignty over Ceuta and Melilla in recent months. You know perfectly well that no; do not confuse, do not deceive the citizenry. Mr. Edmundo Bal, we're surprised by your aggressiveness, your push, your throwing. We think you have good intentions, but you're not orienting her well. It is used with special aggressiveness against the government, tends the hand, kicks... We don't know exactly what he wants. He talks about liberals but then the contradiction is permanent and constant. We are not going to talk about the drift of their political organization or where these contradictions and serious errors have led them not to take into account the sense of state, the general interest of Spain in the face of partisan interests. And please know perfectly well the effort that this Government has made with Catalonia, do not enter into a derogatory game in relation to the commitment of this Government of Spain on the territorial integrity of our country. No more, thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, let us continue to work for the general interest.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the speeches. I would like to highlight some of the issues that have been mentioned by the speakers. First of all, I would like to say to the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group that it was precisely at the June 2021 summit that Madrid was approved and accepted as the seat of the NATO summit next June. [[Applauds]] I also want to tell you about the interconnections that you are absolutely right and that they are frankly insufficient. As I said before, only 2%, when in 2020 the EU target was 10% and in 2030 15%: but we are only 2%. In any case, I have to tell you that if for anything it has served the work we have done over the past three years - over three years, ladies and gentlemen - it is to untie the interconnection of the Gulf of Biscay. In addition, I will share with you an anecdote. The first act I did as President of the Government after the motion of censure was to go to Lisbon, where I met the then Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, Prime Minister Costa, President Macron and Mr Cañete, who was as Commissioner, to push and untie this important interconnection. But, indeed, there is a great deal left. I believe that this is one of the large farms in Spain and that is precisely why we have had to increase - and a lot - our capacity to guarantee and ensure a robust enough energy supply and also to strengthen the electricity system. In short, this is a problem that has been dragging not only Spain, but also Portugal, from the beginning of democracy. Therefore, all the help we can have from your ladies and gentlemen and from your parliamentary group, of course, is welcome. Indeed, Your Honor, all sectors are affected. Like I told you before, we're at war. If one looks at what policies we are putting into effect in the actual Decree-Law, it may well be said that they are insufficient, as some speakers have said, but, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gamarra, we are aligned with what is being done by virtually all the European governments, linked above all with direct aid. There are no European governments that are now posing indiscriminate tax cuts as you are doing, neither left governments nor right governments of the People's Party. They are not doing so, ladies and gentlemen, because they understand that we cannot get out of this crisis with absolutely impressive national budgets and also with structural deficits that lead us to really worrying situations. The approach that we are making to all European governments in the face of the difficulties, Your Honor, is direct aid, concrete and surgical tax cuts such as, for example, in the field of electricity, such as those which we have incorporated into the Royal Decree-Law and which have to do with port charges for the fishing sector, or even, as Minister Escrivá reminded me, the postponement of payments of social security contributions which we have incorporated into the Royal Decree-Law for transporters, farmers and fishermen. I believe that these are the measures that we have to implement and are the measures that are being proposed by all European governments, whatever ideology they have, because we are all aware of the global and particular gravity that certain sectors and the whole of the citizenry have. In that regard, Mrs Gamarra, as you have not yet told us that you are going to vote against, I hope that you will also be able to confirm with your votes this royal decree law when it is upheld in the General Courts. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal, as always, is so democrat and so tolerant, and always remains 1. The truth is that it is curious that Mr Abascal always listens to the last intervention in the General Courts. [[Laughter and applause]] Oh, tell them later! Good. Well, tell Mr Abascal that, in fact, the aim is to defend the interests of the Spanish people; and I say this because I am the President of the Government because it was wanted by the honourable Members, the parliamentary majority, and so did the majority of Spanish citizens. That's what we have to do, ladies and gentlemen. And I think it is of interest to Spanish citizens - the one who lives in Ceuta, the one who lives in Melilla, the one who lives in the Canary Islands, the one who lives in Andalusia, the one who lives in the whole country - to have the best relations with Morocco, and I am surprised that when we approach this debate, none of you talk about the issue. Please tell Mr Abascal - who is absent today - that, of course, we are aligned with the resolutions of the UN Security Council; that, of course, we are defending the same thing that European nations like France and Germany are defending; and that what we reject is precisely the approach taken by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the relationship that Spain must have with Morocco. I have heard Mr Abascal, ladies and gentlemen, say things like sending frigates and ships to the Strait to control irregular immigration and therefore to stop our Moroccan neighbour. I have heard VOX and also Mr Abascal, when he went to Ceuta and Melilla, distinguish between Muslim and Catholic or Christian citizens. [[Mr Sánchez del Real's refusals]] Yes, tell Mr. Abascal. Of course, as he is not, he cannot listen to me and, therefore, he will not be able to answer me. But, I think 1 Mr. Abascal Conde is not in the Chamber. That is, Your Honor, just the opposite of what citizenship represents today in Ceuta and Melilla. And, ladies and gentlemen, you have previously made a reference to the President of the Autonomous City of Ceuta, who is not of my party, who is of the People's Party, to reproach the People's Party for its position on the issue. Well, I will tell you that, although I am a person who is not of my political party, I recognize the work he is doing for coexistence and harmony among the citizens of Ceuta. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal said something worrying, at least for me. He has reproached me - and I quote textually; if not, that they correct me - for my passion for profaning graves. At one point, he alluded to my passion for profaning graves. I understand you're referring to the exhumation of dictator Franco del Valle de los Fallos. [[Rumors]] I understand you're referring to that. And I'm the autocrat and you're the democrats. [[Applauds]] Mr Rufián and Mrs Nogueras will allow me to answer them jointly on this issue. I insist that we are within the resolutions of the United Nations; we are within. To say that we are not within the resolutions of the United Nations is to say that the position of France, that the position of Germany or that the position of the Biden Administration, for example, are outside the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Imagine what trouble we'd have! That's not true, ladies and gentlemen, that's not true. What the Spanish Government is doing is going a step further in what has been said by different governments of different signs, of the Socialist Party and of the People's Party, over the past twenty years. One can say: I do not agree. Well, perfect, but it cannot be said that we are not within the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, because that is not true, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to tell Mrs Nogueras about the SMEs and ICO credits that I believe are necessary, and I have also pointed out the moratoriums on social security contributions. In addition, I am very grateful, Your Honor, that you mark distances with Putin and that regime, because you represent a political party - I am not going to use the terms that have been used by other parliamentary groups - that you have played with fire and that you have flirted with Putin. [[Applauds]] I must say to Mr Errejón that I agree, because, from the point of view of the left and the progressives, I find it interesting and important, beyond rhetoric, how we make this idea of the redistribution of the costs of war land in politics. Your Honor, with all the flaws that you can blame yourself for, with all the mistakes that we have been able to make, with all the complexity that Spain is experiencing and that it is also facing this government - which, moreover, is not a government with an absolute parliamentary majority and we have to negotiate with all of you -, we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage; we have revalued pensions; we have extended the social shield; we have launched the ERTE and incorporated them into the labour reform; we have increased ICO credits, and we have proposed a national plan that will cost EUR 6 billion in three months - Your Honor, EUR 6 billion - plus EUR 10 billion in new lines of credit through the ICO and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the rise in energy prices. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that many things can be said about this government, some bad things and I accept them, but we cannot say that we are not committed to a fair sharing of the costs of this war, because we are doing so. If others were here ruling, it would be much clearer what difference there is to progressive governments in responding to a crisis over what happened to the financial crisis. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Bal, I'll just make a point and a nuance, if you'll excuse me. The point is that I want to tell you that, of course, we are ensuring the safety of nuclear power plants; there is no doubt about that. Now, what I have said to you - perhaps you have not understood me or I have not explained myself well; it will be the second more than the first - is that the bet is not that. I do not think it should be Europe's bet. In fact, the Socialist Party-here I speak as Secretary General of the Socialist Party in the European Parliament - has opposed the taxonomy that the European Commission has proposed. I also opposed the European Council as President of the Government of Spain, because I believe that nuclear investment and investment in gas cannot be a greenwashing that says it is green investment. It's not, Your Honor. Maybe I haven't explained myself well, and I hope you understand me. Secondly, simply for your knowledge and I hope that for your tranquility, the AIReF is independent, the AIReF is independent. [[Postigo Quintana: Well, it doesn't look like it.-Rumores]] Well, what do you mean, it doesn't look like it? I don't know why they say that. It has made independent reports that have even called into question the economic forecasts of the Government of Spain and we have not come out to criticize them. When you were finally ruling the AIReF... [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, it's 25%. The reference price shall be financed by the system itself. Well, I understand we're gonna meet again when that time comes at this point. And finally, about public debt, I just want to do a math. We're at 118%. We have lowered public debt, but I do share with you that we have to review the tax rules. That is what the Spanish Government has been asking for for a long time in the Council. On the new European funds to which you referred earlier, I have to say that it was a rumor that ran before the informal council in Versailles two weeks ago and that there is nothing concrete. We are not talking right now about more European funds or new European funds for defence, energy, etc. I will also tell you that if this debate is triggered, the Spanish Government will of course be among those who are in favour of creating new European funds. Mrs. Aizpurua, really, don't get me wrong. I have not wanted to question the diagnosis you made of the origin of the war or the causes of the war. If you misinterpreted me, I want to tell you that I did not go that way. I say this more than anything because I think it is important that we do not get confused about what the risk is, especially to answer your second question. Russia's war in Ukraine is not justified by Putin's expansionist or imperialist anxiety, it is clearly an attack on Europe. And if it's an attack on Europe, we'll have to take note. And, if we take note, it is unfair to attribute to this government and to me supposed bellicose velocities that we do not have. Here Who has warlike velocities is a person called Vladimir Putin; if there is an aggressor nation, Russia; if there is an attacked nation, Ukraine, and if there is a political project that is threatened because it represents quite the opposite to Putin precisely the European political project. And, if we are right in the diagnosis, then we can start to think that defending peace - which is what Putin has questioned - is perhaps something that deserves not only the present generations, but also the future generations. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be interesting, intelligent and even honest for ourselves to raise a serious and rigorous debate about what kind of European defence we want and, consequently, what kind of Spanish defence we want. Of course, Mrs Aizpurua, I believe that this is a falsehood - and I said this in my first speech - which Putin says he attacks because he felt threatened, because neither Ukraine wanted to attack Russia nor NATO ever intended to attack Russia. What is more, all that we are doing and all the statements we are making by the European and Atlantic Alliance leaders, what are they? There are even very complicated debates from a moral point of view. There is a moral debate, Your Honor, when President Zelenski says: Close the airspace of Ukraine because we are being massacred. What does NATO say? NATO says: We cannot do this because, if we do, then the conflict would escalate to an absolutely global level and would not turn back. And why do we do it, Your Honor? We do so because we do not want to get to that point, but we also say that at the time when a Member State of NATO or of the European Union is attacked - because I remind you that there is an article, Article 42.7, which states that all Member States will respond in solidarity if there is a nation attacked - we will have to do so, we will have to guarantee. I insist, if you go to Poland, if you go to Latvia, if you go to Lithuania and Estonia, you will realize the magnitude and gravity of the problem, because we have heard Putin and his Minister of Defense say that the Baltic republics are a threat to Russia's security, as they said more than a month ago about Ukraine. So, what do Europeans do, Your Honor? Nothing? I believe that if we are here to address these debates, debates - I insist - that we have not provoked, debates - I insist - that affect the solidity of a political project that, with its flaws but also with enormous virtues, has guaranteed decades of prosperity, peace and stability to all the generations before us and to those who will follow us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to open a debate on the defence budget, I think we need to do so. I think it is a debate that we have to deal with with with intelligence, with great generosity and with a great spirit of responsibility and solidarity, because, I insist, the borders of Poland, Romania, Slovakia or the Baltic republics - not only thinking about Russia, but also Belarus, which has a puppet government in Putin - are also our borders and, if they are threatened, we too are threatened. And if in the future - I hope it never happens - in many years' time, in a General Court where we are not, with a government of any political sign, we face a war threat in the south of the European continent, we will demand the same solidarity that the Poles, the Slovaks, the Romanians, the Baltics are demanding; and, indeed, we will be right to claim, as they are right and have many arguments to claim that solidarity and responsibility on our part. That's not a warship of any kind, but to be aware of who we stand in front of. [[Applauds]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can do many cabals and we can intervene more or less brilliantly in parliamentary debates, but Europe is experiencing a war that has undoubted consequences in terms of human lives, millions of refugees and also economic and social consequences that I hope will be short in duration; because, indeed, if it is not managed, if we do not achieve a diplomatic path and therefore the conflict does not cease, unfortunately we can see ourselves on the stage of a long post-war with all the consequences that this can have on our societies. From that point of view, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to approach the issue, it is clear that you will be able to criticize the Spanish Government for the rise in prices, you will be able to say that it is the Spanish Government and the evil Pedro Sánchez who are behind the rise in prices, but I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that 73% of the rise in prices is justified by the rise in the prices of unprocessed food and also of energy. And what the Government is going to do, being aware that this war - like the pandemic - is costly for everyone, for sectors and for the general public, from unity, determination and justice, is to cushion the consequences of the war, to protect the groups and sectors most affected and, without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, to work for our country to move forward. I would like to thank all those parliamentary groups who are going to respond positively to the validation of this royal decree when it comes to the General Courts, who support this national plan and who support the Government in unprecedented circumstances in the democratic history of our country, with a pandemic and a war that we are managing but no one has wanted, except one person. I would like to end by thanking the parliamentary groups that are going to validate it and also the members of the Government for the tireless work - day and night - that they are doing for two years in this part. It's a pride to belong to your team. Thank you. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u99	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, for three weeks you have had Spain in a limit situation. While you were not taking steps to alleviate the effects of inflation, the discontent of the Spaniards has gone up and deep social unrest has gone through our entire geography. Now, at last, it has adopted a plan that is late, that has insufficient measures and that does not content anyone. Today we know that inflation is already at 9.8% and Funcas says that this plan will barely contain inflation at one point. Mr Sánchez, do you think the Spaniards can be satisfied with your management? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u100	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u101	Thank you, Madam President. We have been discussing this issue since nine o'clock in the morning - and it is five o'clock in the afternoon. In any case, if the citizens show that discontent, they are right, and the Government of Spain will do everything in its power to reverse the dramatic consequences that the war and the pandemic are inflicting on our society. That's what we're gonna do. I pledge to use all the instruments in the hands of the State to correct, to cushion, to protect and to share the economic effects of this war. And I have also worked, Your Honor - at least know it - within the European Union to achieve a good agreement that will allow us in the short term to reverse the trend of this triggered and crazy price that we are suffering in the field of electricity as a result of the rise in the price of gas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u102	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u103	Mr. Sanchez, do you know where the source of that discontent is? In that you remain anchored in your is not no; do not listen, do not dialogue and do not fulfill your word. It has adopted a set of measures that we have been able to see in the BOE without appreciating the impact they will have on their recipients, because it has done so - as I said - without listening and without dialogue. Today many Spaniards wonder what will happen in three months. And why three months? There are many people who have to implement these measures, such as the gas station sector, who wonder how they are going to implement them. What does all that generate? Uncertainties, and here are the keys to a lot of the additional problems that your management generates. Nor have you listened to the parliamentary groups. There are many proposals that we have moved and that you have not taken into account: there are tax cuts, which there are, deflating, rationalizing superfluous spending and also, why not, reviewing the energy model for the new circumstances. You have a concept of dialogue that is not the right one, you consider that dialogue is a photo, a call and that we read then everyone in the BOE what you have agreed, and that is not dialogue as we Spanish understand it. All we know is that you have also failed to comply with the compromise, as I have been telling you, which you yourself agreed to in La Palma. Mr Sánchez, you are losing the confidence of the Spaniards. And you know why? Because when one does not keep his word, he loses confidence; when one always comes late to the needs of the Spaniards, he loses the confidence of the Spaniards; when he always stays short, the Spaniards take away his confidence; and, moreover, when he mismanages, they end up getting sick and effectively take away his confidence. Do you know what can happen from now on? That their proven inability to take action will make what is left of the legislature become a lost time that the Spaniards no longer have. In short, Mr Sánchez, it is up to you to act, it is up to you to be diligent, it is up to you to make reforms, and time for the Spaniards is running out if you don't act anymore. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u104	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u105	I keep grabbing that nail, because you don't say no to the validation of the royal decree law and, therefore, I hope you will support it when it was debated and approved. It would be important for the People's Parliamentary Group at this different stage, with new leaderships, to take a turn not of 360 degrees but of 180 degrees, and pass from the no, when we are going to build together and we are going to move a message of unity, which I believe is important. Man, you will be able to criticize that we do not lower all the taxes that you would like to lower - whenever you are in opposition, I insist, you all went down, but when you get to the government you go up to the VAT of the dicks, as you will remember - but you cannot criticize us and say that we are not talking to the parliamentary groups. We have spoken to all your ladies and gentlemen, but you have not sent us any proposals. We have spoken to the autonomous governments, we have spoken to the social partners, we have met - here is the Minister of Transport - with the transport sector. Finally, I do not think it can be said that this government has not done a dialogue, negotiation and in agreement with the sectors concerned. Is it going to be insufficient? No doubt. What are we going to have to improve? Sure. That we've made mistakes? Well, I'll take it. But, Your Honor, you cannot say that we have not done that joint work with the sectors concerned. In any case, I hope that we can reach that agreement, give that message of unity and support the validation of this royal decree, because I believe that we can open at this very necessary stage a stage of unity between the various parliamentary groups of the House. [[Applauds]] - BY GUILLERMO DÍAZ GOMEZ, BY THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHY DON'T YOU ELIMINATE THE OBLIGATION OF THE USE OF MASCARILLS IN INTERIOR? [[File number 180/000860]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u106	Question by Mr Guillermo Díaz Gómez, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u107	Mr President of the Government, why have you not yet removed the mandatory mask inside? Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u108	Quiet, please. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u109	That is what I ask the Minister of Health, Your Honor, and she answers me that, indeed, we will have to wait for the consensus of the scientific community, of the health professionals and also of the whole of the autonomous communities. But I am already warning you that there is one day left for this obligation to be lifted. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u110	Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u111	Mr. Sanchez, you know that wearing no mask inside no longer carries any risks. This statement is not an opinion, here's the evidence. [[Show a picture]] Look, in this photo that publishes the Moncloa-it is not a chivata photo that hunts a carelessness, I would never use an image of those characteristics - you are in Brussels, inside, without mask and with your interlocutor very close. I don't blame you for doing this, I would have done exactly the same as you did at that meeting. What I ask you is that what you can do there can be done by the Spaniards here. You may be without a mask at that meeting because it is in Belgium, where a liberal party that does not have restrictions that are not necessary governs. A month ago he said the mask inside would be removed very soon, and very soon it's late already, Mr. Sánchez. We have come weeks ago to the point where the mask generates more damage than the one that avoids. The mask, in addition to having an impact on freedom, has an impact on mental health. Think of the two-year-olds who have not seen the face of their full teachers yet in the nursery or who have only seen the full face of their parents. Think of those who are at an age of knowing emotions through the full expressions of the face. The pandemic has done a lot of damage to children's minds. Mr. Sanchez, the vaccine has turned COVID into a mild disease. The vaccination campaign has been a success, and I congratulate you, the Government of Spain, the health care workers, the autonomous communities and all the Spaniards who have come in mass to get vaccinations, but I would like to give you an example of a number of situations. Look, you eat out of the house more than I do, and you've experienced the situation of being in a restaurant eating and drinking without a mask, putting on the mask to go to the bathroom, coming back from the bathroom with the mask on, sitting down and taking it off. And you, like me, have thought: this is useless. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u113	Mr. Sánchez, you go to the gym more than I do - in sight you go more to the gym than I do - well, Mr. Sánchez, you know how annoying it is to do sport with the mask on. Mr. Sánchez, you have already given instructions to treat the epidemic as a mild epidemic. If we have to wear the mask until we avoid mild illness, we will always wear it. Eliminate the mandatory mask inside. Spain has complied; it has complied with Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u114	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. I was looking at the data I received yesterday from the Minister of Health on the cumulative incidence in Europe. In France, yesterday's cumulative incidence data at fourteen days are 1800; in the United Kingdom there are 1700; in Germany there are 3718; in Italy there are 1537; in the Netherlands there are 4104; in the Czech Republic there are more than 1000; in Belgium there are 1193; in Austria, lordship, 7000. If you remember - we all remembered that - when we were talking about cumulative incidences of more than 500, or even before the omicron appeared with 400, it was considered by health professionals to be an emergency and that we had absolutely uncontrolled the circulation of the virus in our country. It is true that the omicron has changed everything, because, indeed, as we are seeing, hospitalizations and ICUs are now in percentages of 5% or 6% and is therefore absolutely assimilated by the National Health System. But let us not forget this, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic continues to kill people, it continues to make people sick, and I believe that having these parameters of 7,000, 5,000, 3,000 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in fourteen days are figures that must be concerned, not alarm, but they must be concerned. Therefore, we have to be cautious enough when it comes to making decisions that, in fact, are very important, as you have said, for our day to day. I, of course, make myself available to health professionals, who are the ones who know, those who know how this pandemic is assessed and developed, and when they tell us, Your Honor, that we can lift this obligation, you have no doubt that the Spanish Government will take the decision the second time. [[Applauds]] - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHY DID YOUR GOVERNMENT NOT POSITION UP TO THE 3 STRATEGIC PROJECTS WITH EUROPEAN FINANCING THAT REQUESTED EVERY AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY AT THE END OF SEPTEMBER? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000871]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u116	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u117	Mr President, on 30 September your Government - in particular the Ministry of the First Vice-President - went to the autonomous communities and urged them to present three transformational projects and tractors for each community within a very short period of time, fifteen or twenty days. Why has your Government not yet positioned itself on the three strategic projects with European funding that it requested from each autonomous community at the end of September?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u118	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. I believe that Euskadi is objectively well positioned to receive the funds of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. We have talked about this at some point: industrial specialization, the competitiveness of the business ecosystem, the capacity for innovation... I believe that they are in an unbeatable position in areas such as green transition, such as renewable energy, sustainable mobility and also in areas such as digital transformation of the economy. Your Honor, in the coming days, I have just been told by the Vice-President, Mrs Calviño, who is going to write to the Lehendakari Urkullu that the three priority projects for the Basque Government, namely advanced therapies, mobility and the data ecosystem, are aligned with the various components of the recovery plan, so I believe that they will be able to move forward in parallel with the deployment of the different initiatives that are already under way. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u120	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u121	The truth is that we fulfill and send it in time and form. They were innovative, technological, with several institutions involved, and we already knew they were in line with the recovery plan. What happens is that it seemed that the logical thing would be to identify, evaluate and say yes, forward, but there hasn't been so far - it's the first news we have on your part - absolutely no answer. But it's not clear to me either. He says they're online, yeah, we figured, 'cause they were very profiled. But what are the selection criteria? Are they going to be subject to competitive competition? Do you have to get inside an ERTE? Will it be done directly? Do the autonomous communities have to look for life and find where and how we can fit those plans? It doesn't look like that should be the method. I hope that the next answer announced by the Vice-President will be much more concrete. I also take the opportunity to tell you about the sectoral conferences. When the funds are distributed, the criteria with which they are given are too closed, often do not marry reality in the autonomous communities. Sometimes the goals in some autonomous communities are already met and you can't spend the money on that exactly. Others, the ecosystem is very different from the rigid template you put in. I would tell you that, in the designs, there is more to the autonomous communities because, moreover, the European regulation ordered this. In practice, however, this is not the case and they are putting in place a template that has to fit into ecosystems that are quite different. I hope that even in these next ones - if they are chosen - 70 billion European funds - that these go to credit and will have to return each of the institutions - we will have more to count on the autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u122	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, I can understand that we have to manage more quickly, that between different administrations we are managing a fund that we did not know until it was created a few months ago. But what I cannot accept, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Government of Spain is not talking to the autonomous communities precisely to channel and transfer, that little less that the criteria are imposed on you, that we leave no room. We are improving and learning together how to govern this new fund that is Next Generation funds. If we have done something, it has been precisely to give priority to the transfer of economic resources to the Autonomous Communities. That is to say, in the year 2021 - bearing in mind that it was mid-year when the Commission gave the key to our plan - investments worth 749 million euros linked to the plan have been launched, of which 481 million euros have been transferred directly by the Government of Spain to the autonomous communities and 268 million have been made through the direct execution of the agencies of the General Administration of the State. In this case, I'm talking about Euskadi. Therefore, Your Honor, I honestly believe that, with all the improvements that we have to make, we are giving priority precisely to the transfer of resources to the Autonomous Communities, to the management of policies that are fundamental to the transformation and, in the cases that you are asking me, of course, when we are launching the PERTE, we will have to launch the calls and hope that we can... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW DOES THE MINISTER VALUE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF DIRECT AID GRANTED TO AUTONOMS AND SMEs? [[File number 180/000866]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u125	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u126	Thank you, President. Mrs Calviño, on 13 March, in La Palma, President Sánchez promised to lower taxes. He lied. There is no tax reduction after the date of 13 March. You have presented a plan; a plan that comes late and is insufficient, as the Funcas study center just remembered this morning. You presume to be effective when objectively your measures have been failing over these two years: eight out of ten self-employed people have had to run out of direct aid because of the obstacles you have imposed on them; of the 10 billion for the rescue of businesses, only 2 billion have been awarded; we are the country that fell the most in its GDP in 2020 and we are the ones that will be the last to recover; of the big economies, we are the one with the highest public deficit and the most we have increased the debt; we are the OECD country that is the furthest away from recovering the per capita income from the pandemic... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u127	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u128	... and the vital minimum income, its great social star project, only reaches three out of ten potential beneficiaries. Mrs. Calviño, do you still think that effectiveness is a virtue that adorns your Government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u129	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u130	Thank you, Madam President. The question you have raised is different, but well, it is related and therefore I have no problem answering. Efficacy is one of the characteristics that has marked the response in Spain to the pandemic: effectiveness, speed and determination. Since 10 March 2020, when we adopted the first measures, we have deployed a safety net for companies that has mobilised EUR 136 billion of endorsed credits, more than EUR 24 billion to finance temporary employment regulation dossiers, EUR 10.5 billion to support the extra benefits for the cessation of activity of self-employed people, a safety net that had never existed in our history, the funds of SEPI and Cofides. In addition, we mobilise €7 billion at the disposal of the autonomous communities to provide direct aid to the most affected companies, to the most affected sectors, with a total execution of 74%, that is to say, that €5200 million has been channelled. It is true that only a few autonomous communities have executed a hundred percent. We would have wanted a 100 percent execution in all the autonomous communities, but as a whole, I would say that the mobilization of public resources to respond to the pandemic has been decisive, very effective and has allowed us to protect the productive fabric, employment and incomes of families, and to have a stronger position to face this new challenge, the Putin war. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u131	Mr. Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u132	Thank you, President. Mrs Calviño, I see that you insist on the same recipes, but eight out of ten self-employed people have not been able to accept these aids. They insist on the same failed recipes, charging all the adjustment on the private sector and, if not, ask entrepreneurs or those millions of Spaniards who have a home and rent it. In the People's Party we have been able to reduce useless spending and lower taxes because it works and because it benefits everyone. Mrs. Calviño, is it possible to lower taxes and have the best public education? Yes, there's Galicia's example. Is it possible to lower taxes and have the best public health in Spain? Yes, look at Madrid. [[Protests.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u133	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u134	Is it possible to lower taxes and have the best social services in Spain? Yes, Mrs. Calviño, there's Castile and Leon. [[Rumors]] Is it possible, after forty years of socialist latrociny, to lower taxes and have better health, better education and better public services? Yeah, there's Juanma Moreno's Andalusia. [[Protests.-Laughter.]] They have plenty of room to lower taxes: 60 billion euros of useless spending... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u135	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u136	...and 10 billion extra collections. Mrs Calviño, fifteen days ago you said that our economy was the least exposed to war and today Sánchez says that all problems are the fault of war. Who's lying, Mrs. Calviño? [[Applauds.-A lady MP: Very good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u137	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u138	Two elements of response, Mr Olano. First of all, I know that the only solution you have for everything is to lower taxes, but I do not want to make a mistake here. The taxes that finance education, health care, all public services and the welfare state are not those that are lowering autonomous governments, they represent a very small part of public funding. The taxes paid by all Spanish taxpayers are fundamental to financing the welfare state and to having the capacity now to make the decisions we put into the response plan adopted yesterday. And that's my second element. Do you think the line of 10 billion public guarantees that we are going to mobilise is useless? That the 6 billion aid we are going to give, especially to the most affected sectors, is of no use? But where do you think the financing of all these aid measures comes from? For of those taxes that you consider a bad toxic to the well-being of society. Please, let us be responsible, let us look responsibly, with common sense, at what are the most appropriate measures and let us promote an effective response to this new challenge... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u139	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED INES MARIA CAÑIZARES Pacheco, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU THINK THE SPANISH TRUSTED IN THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000861]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u140	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u141	Thank you, President. Madam First Vice-President, your economic forecasts seem more like those of a pythonise than those of an economic minister, because you are not even close to reality. Its general budgets predicted GDP growth by 2021 above 7%, which would reach almost 10% with the implementation of European funds. The reality has been a GDP growth of 5%, that is, half of what it announced and a null and void execution of European funds that have not reached the real economy. Well, yes, some digitizing agents have arrived. The results of your economic policy, for which you are responsible, have generated the biggest fall in GDP in all the countries of the European Union, almost 11 %; a debt of 120% on GDP; an inflation that points to 10 % - the largest in thirty-seven years - and all this with the only recipe you know how to apply: to raise taxes, to create ministries and to spend without tin. In the face of a slowdown in the economic recovery, which you augured as robust and which is staggering - in this you have not been right either - Spain faces the risk of an inflation aggravated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. And I ask you: in the face of this panorama, do you believe that the Spaniards trust the economic policy of their government? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u142	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u143	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, for two years now we have been in a scenario marked by uncertainty; an uncertainty that has now been reinforced by the war in Putin. That is why we have acted with a fundamental principle: prudence at the time of preparing the State's general budgets and in managing public resources. This has allowed us to close the 2021 financial year with a deficit and a public debt on GDP that will be below the government's objectives. Responsible management, conscious management, trust. Secondly, we have been putting in place an economic policy agenda that is protecting the most vulnerable, the poorest citizens, and that has responded effectively to such an extraordinary situation as the pandemic with measures such as ERTE; we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage; we have protected the productive fabric, employment and incomes of families. And I must say that all this without your help, because you have voted against all those measures that were going to protect citizens and particularly the most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, responsibility, conscience, effectiveness, serious work; these are the foundations of trust. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u144	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u145	His answer is always the same: to hide behind the insufficient and late measures for thousands of Spaniards who will have to continue to choose between buying milk or turning on the heating. You, together with your companions, form the quintet of economic death for Spain: the minister of energy ruin, lady unemployment, doña toajes, tax woman, and you, miss inflation. [[Laughter]] The ministers of the digital age - digital, put by Sánchez's finger - are not able to respond to the real needs of the Spaniards because their policies do not serve the general interest of Spain. It is you who use the Spaniards to satisfy the needs of their insatiable government, needs that are many and expensive: financing a thousand advisors from the president, the list of the purchase of lady unemployed or more than 20 billion for equality. You insult rather than listen to the legitimate demands of the Spaniards - truckers, farmers, farmers - who claim to exist and survive. The street that you haven't walked in years is talking, and the rejection of the Spanish towards their government is a reality that has a name: democracy and freedom of expression. Its only truth is the lie, Sánchez's corporate principle, which governs in an excuse to justify his inability to face the challenges and threats we face. And it is that you govern Spain that is great. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u146	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u147	Thank you, President. The truth is, you're starting to look like your partner Olona in terms of insults. [[Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco: Thank you]] Yeah, but it's not that funny, actually. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Insults and jokes when we are talking about very serious issues, issues that have to do with just what citizens care about. This is a government that has been working responsibly, with seriousness, with empathy, which has now put on the table a national response plan that you would have to support, because it is precisely designed to support the most affected sectors, to cushion the negative impact on families, to reduce the cost of electricity and, ultimately, to act as we have been doing, generating the confidence of citizens and international investors. Let me tell you - it seems a lie that I have to clarify - what are the keys to trust. This is a government that does what it says, fulfills its commitments and pays its debts. Put it on. [[Applauds]] - OF César SÁNCHEZ PÉREZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD MINISTRY FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINKS THE COMMISSION'S AID TO PALIAR THE SCALE OF PRICES AND THE ENERGY CRISIS AND ENERGY BUILDING THAT OUR COUNTRY IS IN? [[File number 180/000867]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u148	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr César Sánchez Pérez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Ribera, in a year the price of light has risen by more than 80%, 28 % the price of diesel and inflation - the tax of the whole left - sprays its record today, 9.8%; inflation, which strikes the most vulnerable and especially the Spanish middle class. There are many supermarkets that have empty windows in Spain, but that is not the most serious; the most serious thing you have caused with your management is that there are many empty pantry in many households in Spain. And in the meantime, you have done absolutely nothing useful, not all this time, not even yesterday in the Council of Ministers. Madam Vice-President, the countryside is suffering, fishermen cannot go out fishing, transporters are still desperate and the industry is thinking of closures because it cannot pay the price of energy. And in the meantime, despite the lies that the President of the Government said here this morning, you continue to raise taxes on the Spanish. Look, now, four years later, you've realized that we're an energy island. And I ask you, what were you thinking when you proposed that the Maghreb gas pipeline be shut down? What were you thinking, Madam Vice-President, when you left in a drawer investments for projects between France and Spain for those gas and electricity interconnections that our country needed? Madam Vice-President, you have caused Spain to be an energy island during these four years. And I ask you: how do you appreciate what your fellow Germans, Social Democrats and Greens are doing, which are increasing the possibility of extending the useful life of nuclear power plants, which are burning more coal and producing more gas? How do you value what your fellow Germans, Social Democrats and Greens are doing? Madam Vice-President, what are you really planning to do so that the energy price in Spain will be reduced and the Spanish will be able to move forward? [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u150	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u151	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question, which touches on many points and allows me to pick up some basic elements and ideas regarding how important it has been that we have been working on energy since the first day, in a context in which we were clear, like the rest of the European countries, how important it is to have a transition that will allow us to have a much stronger, much more robust system, not only in the supply of raw materials, but also in technological innovation, in the non-generation of new dependencies from other countries. How we have worked to make this an opportunity for employment and industrial innovation in our country and how we have worked to consolidate a much more stable and more united European energy policy, thinking, at this time of serious crisis, how to reduce or contain energy prices, how to foster resilience, speed up the energy transition and coordinate our infrastructures and complementarities among our countries. How we support and should continue to support and increase support for vulnerable consumers, both domestic and industrial, and how we facilitate a fair sharing of effort. I will tell you that, with regard to our German social-democratic and green and liberal partners, we feel, at this moment, deeply in solidarity, at a time when this morning they have just declared the pre-alert, the pre-emergency, and they are thinking that they may have to introduce rationary measures in access to gas or what impact it can have on their electricity system, because the energy situation in Europe at this time is terribly complicated, with a high dependence on exports from Russia of gas, coal and oil, which fortunately catch us in many better conditions than others. Therefore, our commitment at this time is to continue to accelerate with stable and consistent medium- and long-term measures, but also with an immediate, rapid emergency response capability, accompanying vulnerable users, but also facilitating an acceleration of things that might have come later, as we did yesterday in the Council of Ministers and, of course, promoting coordination and interconnection upwards, with France and also with our southern allies, Morocco and Algeria. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u152	Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u153	Madam Vice President, I'm going to give you two tips. One, lower the taxes. Two, apologize to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u154	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u155	As the President of the Government has indicated very well, I do not know what else has to happen in order for you to understand that this is not the answer that our society needs, but unity, adding and addressing this extraordinary situation... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARTA ROSIC I SALTOR, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT UNDER RESOLUTION 2381 OF THE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE? [[2021]] [[File number 180/000859]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u157	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Marta Rosique i Saltor, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u158	Thank you, President. Minister, does the Spanish Government intend to comply with Resolution 2381 of 2021 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u159	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Deputy Rosique, Spain fulfills, this government fulfills; it fulfills what binds it and takes very good note of what is recommended to it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u161	Mrs. Rosique.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u162	In June 2021, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to which the Spanish State is a party, adopted a resolution addressed to the Spanish and Turkish authorities on whether to prosecute politicians for statements made in the exercise of their office. Since then, they have not complied. They are still, in fact, not complying with this. The resolution requires them to reform the criminal types of rebellion and sedition. They didn't. Also, withdraw all criminal proceedings related to the 2017 referendum. They didn't. Ensure that embezzlement applies only if the losses to the State budget are real and quantified. They didn't. Maintain an open and constructive dialogue. Neither do they. And to grant pardons, which have done so, but partially, disqualifying political prisoners from exercising public office. Do you have an excuse? No, they don't. There are the mechanisms and majorities necessary for you to carry it out, and you know it. That the People's Party does not approve is no longer an excuse, because bipartisanism, as you know, is over. What exactly are you waiting for? Be careful, because your inaction and your silence are understood as a rejection of this report and its application. Even if it is not binding, this resolution influences the European Court of Human Rights and also affects its long-awaited reputation, and we know that you are not so moved by dignity, but precisely this obsession with the reputation of Spain. And if they follow Turkey's steps, causing political exiles, disenfranchised politicians, mayors tried, judicially threatened officials, activists tried and convicted and hundreds of people fined for simply defending the right to determination of Catalan countries, this may not be the only international resolution to be found comparing Spain with Turkey. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u163	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, there is a number of confusion in your explanation, in your reflection, as there was last week in the senator of your own parliamentary group who asked me about this very issue. It seems, from what you have said, that you and I have read two absolutely different resolutions. You see, the first of the confusions is that it mixes binding resolutions with recommendations. When the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Strasbourg, judgment, the State, this Government, Spain, complies. And when they are recommendations, I can assure you, when you tell us which way we have to go, that this Government, Spain, takes good note of this. The second confusion of his lordship is that of mixing all the powers of the State and also requiring the Executive to make decisions, when it has no competence or capacity to do so. The recommendation, the resolution to which you refer talks about the three powers of the State, the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. Also, from the Legislature, Your Honor, where you are. The resolution, as far as the executive branch is concerned, which is what I have to report here to this House, to your honor, indicated that certain decisions were taken concerning the right of grace, and that is what this government has done, granting pardons, Your Honor. He also made indications that he could open a path of dialogue with the political forces in Catalonia, and, Your Honor, that is also what this Government is doing seriously. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we cannot avoid that we need to address certain legal reforms that involve modernising our legal system, especially in criminal matters, and adapting it to other countries in the environment, overcoming regulations that are typical of another century. We agree on this, but we need a calm majority, a calm reflection and a minimum of consensus, because it affects nuclear aspects of our coexistence. You will say that we can do that with a majority that is not too... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ENSURE THE COMPLETION OF SENTENCES? [[File number 180/000869]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u166	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last Monday the deadline for your good friend the Education Advisor of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Mr Cambray, to communicate to the justice how he intended to execute the execution of the sentence that recognizes the presence of the Castilian in the classrooms, in terms I understand that you, as minister of the Kingdom, will know. But, in the end, you don't have to be too sharp to see, Minister, that the answer is a full-fledged take of hair. That is why I am obliged to ask you how the Government intends to ensure compliance with that sentence. Allow me, before you answer me, Your Honor, and bearing in mind your shameful intervention last week, to ask a little more respect for those who defend the linguistic rights of the students, whether or not they are our children, because if you want to look for those who use the language in a partisan way, you only have to stand up and look up, they are your government partners. Thank you, Madam President. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u168	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, I have already answered this question several times and I will not tire of doing so. Fortunately, we live in a country where sentences are served, and more so when it comes to a firm sentence like this one we are talking about. Therefore, have no doubt that it will also be so in this case. But, fortunately, we also live in a state of law and you will agree with me that, once the Generalitat has forwarded a reply to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, it is up to it at this time to rule on the enforcement of the judgment to which you alluded. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u170	Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u171	Thank you, Madam President. What a disappointment, Minister, I thought you were going to answer me this time. The truth is that your answer is up to the high school decree you passed. Do you know why the Generalitat allows itself the luxury of failing to comply with sentences? Because you know you're on your side. And do you know why he's on his side? Because you owe your chair to those who fail to comply with the sentences. That's why you're not going to do anything now or ever, because the problem is you. They are a problem here and in Catalonia, here and in the Basque Country, here and in the Balearic Islands; that is the sad reality. That is why Mr. Cambray peacocked himself by ensuring that the ministry is not going to ask for compliance with the law. That is why you copy the language of separatists, maintaining a calculated equidistance and avoiding defending families and students. By the way, minister, do us one last favor: withdraw the high school decree, because I assure you that this story you intend to censor will not have mercy on you. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u172	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, you, as a Member of the main opposition party, have every right to ask me about the issues you consider, but I have taken the trouble to review all the questions you have asked me in the control session and the words you have spilled and all of them have the same objective: to cross, confront and divide. After almost twenty-five years of being a Member of Parliament, I have to tell you that I have missed some constructive proposal in the field of education. [[Applauds]] I have to tell you that it is such an obsession that you have to attack this government that you have been the only party that voted against the law on vocational training; look, you have even passed on the right to your VOX partners. Mrs Moneo, you and your party don't care about the subject of language, they don't care about the real sluggishness of this issue, which is that young people who are studying in autonomous communities with a co-official language learn to speak in two languages. What interests you about this matter - I have told you many times and I will repeat it again - is to divide, confront and confront us and, yes, to use the tongue as a bold weapon. Taking advantage that this weekend you are going to choose a new leader - by the way, a new leader who comes from an autonomous community with a co-official language - I am sure he will also agree with me on the importance of those young people who are studying right now in Galicia learning to write, to express themselves and to speak in Spanish and in Galicia. As I say, take advantage of this change of leadership to come again, please, to this path of constructive opposition, to the path of useful opposition, because of course this country will thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE SUPPORTED GIRL AGUSTIN ALODOBAR Mr Barceló, from the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism: Is there any government strategy to mitigate the impact of the Belgian conflict in this Europe on the full recovery of tourism? [[File number 180/000870]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u174	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Agustín Almodóbar Barceló, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u175	Thank you, President. I give the floor to the question.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u176	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u177	Thank you very much, President. Mr Almodóbar, this government acts responsibly when we have to face catastrophes, such as Filomena or the island of La Palma, a pandemic or, now, war. Today we have had a great debate, in which we have been able to explain the national plan for responding to the consequences of the war, a plan that will mobilise EUR 16 billion and that will once again protect businesses and citizens. What has not yet become clear is whether you are going to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u178	Mr. Almodóbar.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u179	Mrs Maroto, yesterday they presented a plan of shock against the consequences of the war and once again it is clear that you still do not paint anything; not a single specific measure for the most important sector of our economy. You have stated that the war will not have an impact on tourism activity, a new irresponsibility on your part, as a result of the tremendous ignorance of how the tourism business works. For the time being, more than 123,000 squares programmed from Russia to Spanish airports have been lost, international flight prices are being fired and the effects of the war continue to slow down reservations in Spain. And no Government is responsible for some things that happen, but for what it does; in the case of Spain, unfortunately, what it does not do: the worst recovery in Europe. 746 days later it is more than proven that the Government still does not have a clear road map that provides certainty to entrepreneurs, workers and destinations. Minister, she's a cashier: if the Spaniards have to pay more money in gas, light or shopping basket, she will agree with me that they will have less resources to spend on leisure and tourism, and all this at the gates of the high season. We had never seen a government react with so much lewdness, parsimony and indolence: the travel agencies with 30% of its workers still unable to work; 4000 outlets that have remained behind, despite their propaganda; the hoteliers struggling with the lack of basic raw materials; the price of electricity multiplied by three and having to pay more in the times of greatest activity, such as meals and dinners. Mrs. Maroto, do you know that generating a hotel exchange today is almost 30% more expensive than in 2021? No, of course you don't. She's been having fun with the European imserso lately. Mrs. Maroto, first fix the Imserso here, and tell Minister Belarus, see if she finds out. Today I've reached out again for the umpteenth time, sit with us. My group has tabled, over the last two years, thirty-nine specific GNPs in the field of tourism, thirty-nine, and they have voted against everything. Pay attention to what we ask of them, to what the sector asks of them: lower taxes and approve at once a PART for the Spanish tourism sector. Mrs Maroto, having the immense honor of being president or minister is to wear out so that your country does not wear out; it is to serve and not to serve; it is to lead, to speak, to find solutions and not to hide; to assume responsibilities and not to be irresponsible. Spain needs a government of the People's Party as soon as possible and will arrive soon, and I assure you that we will do well, as we have always done. With you that is impossible, because in Spain the solution is in the hands of the problem: you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u180	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u181	Thank you, President. Mr Almodóbar, if you had so many proposals to include in the response plan, I do not understand how the People's Party has not presented any in the round of consultations we have made. [[Applauds]] The truth is, Your Honor, that this morning Mrs Gamarra has made very clear what the recipes of the People's Party are to deal with the consequences of the war: lowering taxes; you have said it again and it is something that you always put on the table for anything. But it has also made clear that the People's Party's proposal is to cut €60 billion to cut public services, public education and public health. [[Rumors]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, cuts and austerity, these were the recipes of the financial crisis that led us to an unemployment rate of 27% and also to lose the confidence of the tourism and travel sectors. We have put in place a response plan that will mobilise 16 billion euros, 6 billion euros to help the most affected sectors, the most vulnerable population, and also to lower the bill for light, which you are telling me is, in fact, making the tourism sector have to pay a higher bill. This is what President Sánchez was doing in the European Commission in order to achieve, in fact, a new scheme in the marginalist price. But, as the President also said, what more has to happen, Your Honor, if the main opposition party is to join the collective responses, to stop working individually, to wear down the government, and to support it, at last? If Europe is united, we hope, Your Honor, that Spain is united and the People's Party supports the plan to respond to this war. The tourism sector will certainly thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT ANTONIO BERMUDEZ DE CASTRO FERNANDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: ARE THE GROWTH DIVISIONS IN THE GOVERNMENT THE RESULT OF THE COORDINATION FRAMEWORK? [[File number 180/000868]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u182	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are part of the largest and most expensive government in democracy, with a structure as disproportionate as it is unjustified. Therefore, the least that should be required of him is that, at least as Minister of the Presidency, he fulfils his main role, which is to coordinate the action of the various ministries and to clearly define the legislative programme of the Government. However, the reality shows that you rule in a coup d'état, stealing the debate from this House, and that you only coordinate, and wrongly, in the middle of the government, because the other half goes for free, and that is a failure that we all pay for. That is why I ask you: are the Government's frequent divisions the result of the failure of its coordination work? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u184	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. It seems to me very bold that you speak of divisions, you are a daring, a reckless one. Do you really want to talk about divisions? Where do you want us to start? Do we start with the divisions of your party, which throw out a leader's window because it denounces an alleged case of corruption of an autonomous president of your own party? Do you want us to talk about divisions in autonomous governments? What is your model of Castile and Lion? [[Applauds]] Look, I know the motto of your next Congress is 'We'll do it right'. At the moment, nothing is noticed, they continue to do so as badly as to date. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u186	Mr. Bermuda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u187	Look, Mr Bolaños, you have no authority to give lessons to my party, because in order to give lessons, the first thing is to set an example, and in this government, in terms of internal cohesion and coherence, neither injury nor an example. [[laughs]] [[a Member: None, none, none]] [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]] And it is that there is no week, Your Honor, that there is no fracture within the government, which is more and more like the Tower of Babel every day. It has been happening throughout the legislature, where ministers have been allowed to question the institutions of the State or the independence of the judiciary in the face of Mr Sánchez's passivity; attacks on the countryside or the UN proposal have occurred We can continue to increase taxes, rather than lower them, which is what we have been demanding one day and another in the People's Party; it has occurred with the transportist strike with the Sahara, where today they have once again maintained incompatible positions with each other, and it is happening with measures for the invasion of Russia in Ukraine, where Mr Sánchez has had more support from the People's Party than half of his own government, where even ministers qualify NATO as an organization of legal terrorism. And so we could continue all afternoon. Mr. Bolaños, to rule is to lead decision-making in the face of problems, and you overcome all problems because you are incapable of making decisions, and when you do, you always come late, either because you don't know, or because you can't be divided. That is why there is so much uncoordinatedness in his Government, because they do not have a common project for Spain. So, do you know what the main difference is between your government and my party? For the main difference is that when the People's Party governs, Spain advances, and when you govern, it always backs, and when we govern, we never fail, because we always deliver a better Spain than we receive. That's something you can't say. And so goes Spain, ladies and gentlemen, so goes to Spain! [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u188	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u189	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see your colleagues applauding you with a lot of passion. Be careful, that in your party, of the applause with passion to throw you out the window, there are five minutes. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]] I'll explain the difference between the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u190	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u191	I will explain the difference between the People's Party and this government. The People's Party this legislature has been synonymous with instability, for that toxic opposition and burning land that you have practiced; instability in Genoa, at its own headquarters, instability in the autonomous communities that govern. Look, you know what I'm saying? The worst is not that you are beheaded, because that is temporary, the worst is that you are bewildered, you have neither one idea nor one project for this country. I hope that in this weekend's Congress you will put all your intelligence into trying to have a country project for Spain, because our country needs it. [[Rumors.-Mrs.Angolo Romero utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u192	Quiet, please! Mrs. Angulo, silence! [[Mrs.Angulo Romero: If you don't answer!-Rumors]] Mrs. Angulo, you called her to order! Silence! [[A Member of Parliament: Finally, finally!-Continue the rumors]] Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u193	Thank you very much. Spain needs an opposition that is up to it, and you, for the moment, have not been up to it. Look, in the face of that instability that you suppose, we are stability. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] We have adopted - feel good - 131 legislative initiatives this government, each and every one of which we have brought to this House, with the most fragmented parliament of democracy; we have adopted two budget laws in time and form, which has not been in place for a long time, and yesterday we adopted a national plan to respond to the crisis in Ukraine. Let us hope that you will have your support, that you will be up to speed for the first time in many months and that the Spanish will be able to see how the opposition is beginning to be useful in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: ARE YOU CONSCIOUS OF THE SOCIALLY INITIATIVE EXPENDITURE OF THE MINISTER OF THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY? [[File number 180/000862]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u194	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Rocío de Meer Méndez from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you aware of the socially useless expenditure of your ministry?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u196	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u197	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the only unfair and economically useless thing is machismo and inequality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u198	Mrs. De Meer.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u199	How it is noted that when there are no arguments, there are the usual insults, those we are already used to receiving in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, you - and you have been doing this all morning - tell the Spaniards that you have to pay taxes to make organ transplants, to pay for chemotherapy sessions in public health and, logically, who is going to oppose it? But the reality - the reality - is that you are going to spend four times the budget of the Ministry of Health and more than twice the budget of the Ministry of Defence on an ideological plan that you have called the Strategic Plan for Effective Equality between Women and Men. It is indecent, Minister, that you are going to allocate 20 319 million euros, that you will then make up and say it is to improve people's lives. I will tell you some phrases of your strategic plan and the intentions of your ministry: creating an advisory table of ecofeminism; integrating the gender perspective, of course, into absolutely everything. The document is full of: General budgets of the State with a gender perspective; General administration of the State with a gender perspective; regulations with a gender perspective; European Social Fund with a gender perspective; contracts with a gender perspective... But don't miss it, which you also want to fight against the feminization of poverty in a country where 82% of sinogarism is male. At the same time, you want to involve the media in overcoming gender stereotypes, but you also advocate measures to eradicate - I don't know what - symbolic violence and cultural violence against women; you also want to transform the mandate of hegemonic masculinity and you want to create a feminist library, do CIS surveys for women and post-feminist degrees. And don't miss it - I don't know what it will be -, push the observatory for the image of women. Minister, thousands of Spaniards - that's why it's indecent - can't pay for the light, can't take a plate to their homes, can't heat their families, have to close the shutters of their businesses and the doors of their trucks forever, to stay without anything, so that you spend your tax money to pay feminism, that neither eats nor heats nor serves for anything. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u200	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u201	Thank you, President. Your Honor, are you really saying that it is useless for a woman who has been raped to have a place to go, to call 016, to go to a 24-hour crisis center and to be attended by a specialist psychologist or to receive legal advice? Does that sound like throwing away the money? [[Several Members: No, no]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u202	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u203	Would you like to throw away the money the State provides for maternity and paternity leave to families? The State invests between 6000 and 7400 euros on average per worker in these permits. What do you prefer, to fire women for being mothers or not to hire them for being mothers? Do you find it pointless that we recognize the right to unemployment of domestic workers, Your Honor? [[Applauds]] See, an employee of the home help service for people in dependency earns, on average, 926 euros. Do you really find it useless or an excess that if a woman has a work accident they will be given 700 euros a month while she recovers, so that she can recover? Do you find it useless that there be children's schools, a co-responsible plan for women to leave their children in a safe place if they have to go to the health center or if they need to rest, which is what the law says, Your Honor? Do you think it is a waste that we will strengthen the mechanisms for early detection of comprehensive care for women who are victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, as we do in this royal decree that we adopted yesterday? Do you think it's a waste that we protect mothers who raise alone, who are 1.8 million families? [[Mrs. DeMeer Mendez makes negative gestures]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, you and the PP, who govern with you, with your proposals put women's lives and rights at risk, and someone has to tell you, someone has to tell you because you want to destroy the most valuable of democracy, which is that through institutions and public money we take care of and protect each other. [[applause]] They defend an unequal society in which more than half of the population, who are women, have fewer rights. And I see them screaming a lot against women's rights, but not a single word that at the worst moment, when families are paying the bill for the most expensive light, the electrics are quadrupling their profits. Of that, I never hear you speak, because they obvious that inequality and machism are also, in addition to injustice and a violation of women's human rights, profoundly inefficient economically, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause]] Feminism is the best thing this country has and only you and the People's Party, which governs with you, seem to have not yet found out. [[pointing out the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] [[Several Members: No, no.-Applause]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT RESPECT THE TEXT AND THE SPIRIT OF THE LAW APPROVED IN THE CONGRESS TO THE UNANIMOUS INITIATIVE OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENT FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND OF COMPENSATION FOR THE VICTIMES OF AMIANT? [[File number 180/000864]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u204	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, with this issue, which is nothing but a question about asbestos, it will be difficult for us to keep up with the latest questions, but let us see what can be done. On 24 March, i.e. six days ago, the Basque Parliament adopted, in practice unanimously, a non-legislative proposal which read as follows: The Basque Parliament requests the Congress of Deputies to respect the spirit of the proposal submitted and that the rule finally adopted should not distort the initial text, seeking as much consensus as possible in order to obtain the prompt reparation of the victims and their families. That vote, apart from the result - which, as I said, was in practice unanimous - also resolved one of the fears of the asbestos victims' associations and other trade and social organizations, which was the position of the majority party of those who make up the government. There, the Basque Socialist Party ratified its commitment to this text and, therefore, its commitment to keeping intact the bill that we still have in Congress today. We believe that it would also be up to you to provide clarity in this debate. On many occasions you have complained that the media misrepresent things that you have pointed out in a wrong way. I believe that today you have the opportunity, with your voice and with all of us and ourselves as witnesses, to make clear your Government's position on this issue. That is why we ask you: will the Government respect the text and the spirit of the law adopted in Congress, on the unanimous initiative of the Basque Parliament, for the creation of a compensation fund for asbestos victims?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u206	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u207	Thank you, President. Mr Matute, absolutely, absolutely, we are going to do it, and in fact we have already incorporated it into the general budgets of the State. As you know, there are already EUR 25 million, which is exactly the figure you raised in the budget of the Imserso, of the Ministry of Social Rights, which is included in the general budgets of the State. But I'll tell you more. This is the first time I have spoken in public about this, but in the ministry I have received and also photographed myself - it is in the networks - with the victims of asbestos and their representatives, and I have known their concerns and the difficulties they have had in certain areas to put this fund. Therefore, my commitment cannot be greater and I am expressing it, at this moment, fully. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u208	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. I am glad that it has been clear, I am glad that it is clear and that we are not trying to continue to impute the management of this, for example, to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Agenda 2030, because it does not belong to it, but to its own ministry; and I say that I am glad that this is a debate that had to be resolved many years ago. It started in 2011, with an initiative of the parliamentarian of Eusko Alkartasuna, one of the formations that joins Euskal Herria Bildu in the Basque Parliament; it had a practical resolution in the articulated text that was adopted in 2016, on 19 May, in the Basque Parliament; in 2016 it arrived at Congress and was interrupted by the dissolution of Congress twice; there was an amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu, for 25 million, that provided resources to that fund, but still remains to make the law; I believe that it is important to comply. In a previous question, the Vice-President of the Government said that this Government always pays its debts, such as the Lannisters. I would also like your ministry, in this case, with the thousands affected and with the thousands of people who are going to be affected in recent years, to also say that you pay your debts.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u210	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u211	Mr Matute, simply by clarifying a topic of competence. In Social Security, the victims of asbestos who are permanently disabled already receive a pension, they have a pension of 35,000 euros, which is almost three times more than the average pension of a permanent disability; that is, those who are permanently disabled already receive it and it is the competence of Social Security. What we're doing here is a fund for a non-contributory pension, and these kinds of funds, like thalidomide, are managed by the Imserso. That is why in the general budgets of the State this benefit is managed by the Imserso, because it is the one who has managed this in the past and we have agreed within the Government. That's why he's in the Imserso, in the general state budgets, and he's definitely going to do great, because he's managed funds for similar victims and he's doing great. I have the utmost confidence in the Imserso and I think you also have to have it, because it's going to make it phenomenal. You'll see how we're going to get those 25 million managed perfectly, plus a similar amount every year that Social Security devotes to the pensions of beneficiaries who are permanently disabled. For those who are not permanently disabled, for various reasons, we have a solution. The Fund is perfectly equipped and will be managed with the best criteria by that institution that in Spain manages funds of this nature. You are convinced that, with this Government, it will be perfectly managed, and that is what I give as a commitment from the Government. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF THE HERAS FERNANDEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATE THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHY THE GOVERNMENT HAS PRETENDED TO DECALIFY TO TRANSPORTISTS WITHIN YOUR PROTEST? [[File number 180/000863]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u212	Question addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mrs Patricia De las Heras Fernández, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u213	Why has the government intended to disqualify transporters on account of their protest?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u214	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u215	Thank you very much, President. Mrs De las Heras, this government has never disqualified the sector. Moreover, what we have done has been to work with them to implement a series of structural and other measures in the short and medium term, because we obviously consider it to be an essential sector for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u216	Mrs. De las Heras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u217	On 17 March, he spotted the carriers of ultra-right groups who are trying to subject this country and asked not to legitimize their actions, which he called violent and said: they are replacing the word with sticks, stones and nails. Minister, have you seen any containers burned or injured by throwing stones? Because I remind you that your minions do throw stones at us, but, then, for you it is ketchup. They should be made to look at what they consider violent. I am not going to sit with a group of radicals who are acting violently, you said; blackmail, sabotage and boycott qualified your strike. He called the truckers on strike ultras and puppets from the far right. He was followed by the Minister of Finance, accusing Putin of playing the game and seeking instability. You decriminalized violent pickets; and now that the strike is against this government of hunger and misery, you forbid, through an order from the Interior, that there be talk of strike and picketing, criminalizing the transporters who go out desperate, classifying them as activists. And they use our glorious forces and state security forces, sending them tens of thousands to the streets, banning our truckers the most basic fundamental right to strike, with sanctions of 3000 euros. A real coercion against a fundamental right such as that of the strike. 'We are carriers, not terrorists', they are forced to say to defend themselves against the harassment and overthrow of this government. He even asked us to explain why you supported what you called a radical minority. It will not be so minority when 'Antonio' comes up with a new state of alarm and intends to use our military as squirrels, an instrument that, by the way, loves our autocrat president because he gives him absolute full powers or, at least, to trample on our fundamental rights. The truckers, whom you have called ultras, radical and violent, are families in need because of your Government, who ask to be able to bring a plate to the table and that their children do not lack bread, but, above all, they ask for respect. You've lost the streets and the story. As the president of the platform said: The union of the Spaniards is the largest we are getting. The Spaniards are with our truckers. VOX is with our truckers. You have been left alone with your subsidized class unions and even with 78 million euros of subsidies you have managed to kidnap the streets. There is very little left for them to be left without a public chair - one or the other - as soon as the Spaniards have the opportunity to speak in the polls as they are doing in the streets, and VOX giving him voice from the institutions. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u218	Minister
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. De las Heras, the only ones who disqualify here are you. You have severely insulted Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Ministers, Ministers, the President of the Government, political leaders on the right and left, writers and journalists. That's what you best know how to do, normalize insult in institutions and violence in the streets. That's what you've done. In the most complicated, more complex moments of the protest, you have thrown yourselves on the street to fuel the fire and to generate and increase chaos. [[Applauds]] They've gone into chaos. That's what you've done. Look, Mr.Abascal, last March 19th: We will not leave the streets until we expel this illegitimate government handed over to the enemies of Spain. Illegal government, enemies of Spain... don't you think this is a disqualification? Doesn't that sound like you? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u220	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u221	At the very least it is a lack of respect for those of us who sit in this Chamber and trust and govern ourselves with democratic principles, principles which you are only pointing out from outside, and, if not, remind Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, who is missing. Look, all you guys do is point to violence, set the streets on fire. This government condemns violence; and the only thing we asked for and the only thing we said was: we respect those who want to stop and legitimately understand their protests, but we will never, ever, ever, ever tolerate violence; and we also have to protect and ensure that those who want to work and those who want to do it with guarantees can do it and can provide essential services, that's what we have done, sitting with the transporters, yes, with the majority of the transporters; and we have agreed on a series of measures that are structural - short-term, yes, some, but structural too - with an impact of more than EUR 1 billion. And we will continue to work for the defence of the transport sector and of society as a whole. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u222	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to prevent ideological indoctrination and the lowering of the academic requirement, in the light of the new curricula of Primary, Secondary and Baccalaureate. For your defence, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[The Vice-President, Elizo Serrano, took the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree regulating the ESO curriculum has been published today. The first news we have had, according to an ABC publication, of your impact memory, is that you have rejected the request made to you by the Directorate General of Support for Victims of Terrorism to study terrorism as one more issue within the area of Geography and History. [[The Lord]] They have also been against the proposal of the Ministry of Defence, which proposed adding the "Civic and Ethical Education" collection, the "Culture and National Security" collection. However, they have listened to Mrs Montero- tan feminist - who has asked them to censor the musical compositions - I read textually - which could contain components relating to the myths of romantic love, in which a differential and complementary conception of men and women is assumed. I mean, at this point the bowlers are going to turn out to be part of the song protesting against the system, with these things that you have. [[Applauds]] But, it is that, moreover, in this curriculum you say that you are going to remove the chronological sense of history. Minister, if history is taken away from you the chronology is no longer history, it will be something else, that is, indoctrination, which is what you claim, pure and hard indoctrination. [[Applauds]] And I don't tell you, the Spanish Royal Academy of History tells you, which accuses you in its opinion of presentism and of using history to publicize your famous memory, which you now call democratic, because it seems that those leaders of the Popular Front were fighting for democracy, when there is nothing more to see than their declarations to know that what they intended to do was to establish the dictatorship of the proletariat, you put yourselves as you put yourselves on. [[Applauds]] But, it is that, moreover, you have skipped a unanimous agreement that there was here, in this House, in 2018, to include Philosophy in Compulsory Secondary Education; you have replaced it with this Education for Citizenship 2.0 which, as I say, is pure indoctrination. The historical perspective you change from a gender perspective. Look, you're going to allow me a galeate tour, because I know where I'm going to come from: that if homophobia, that if machism, that if and what. Look, we are opposed to gender theory for the same reasons and the same reasons why we are opposed to explaining in Secondary the nigromancy, voodoo or any scientific theory such as phrenology, etc., because it lacks a scientific basis. [[Applauds]] Moreover, the arguments against this theory I do not give them; if you want - Mrs Montero has gone - I give you the arguments of classical feminists of the PSOE and of the United Left, like Mrs Amelia Valcárcel, who has just extended a published book called Nobody is born in a wrong body, Mr Errasti and Mr Marino Pérez. And also Mrs. Lidia Falcon, founder of the Spanish Feminist Party, who says the following: Gender theory is a fantasy fiction, an ideological roughness. And Mrs Falcon describes the trans lobby, not me, as a mutant sect. And then before the Prosecutor's Office and topped by feminist activists, she said that this trans lobby pretends - she says, they are her statements- campaigning for paedophilia; she intends to medicate Spanish students with puberty blockers, hormones and other medications. [[rumors]] And he says that the ultimate purpose of these gender laws is to make women invisible. He believes that gender laws are the greatest attack on women in the last 50 years, and they allow a gentleman swimmer, who is not even among the three hundred best swimmers, to declare himself a woman, to beat all the cuts and to cut all the podiums; because you will be able to hide everything you want with your genres, but you cannot hide sexual dimorphism; that is scientific evidence. [[applause]] Here, Mr Echenique was speaking this morning about the scientific consensus with climate change. With what there is a scientific consensus is with chromosomes and with the result of that chromosomal division, which is sexual dimorphism! [[Applauds]] And you're gonna load up the women's sport, you're gonna load up the women's sport with these gender theories that go all over each other. Another block - as Mr Errejón, another radiating nucleus, would say - of ideology is its climate fanaticism, which includes everywhere in the agenda and in the curriculum of Secondary. And understand me well, we would find it wonderful that the phenomenon of climate change will be dealt with from scientific coordinates; that it be explained, for example, in Chemistry, what are the greenhouse gases, and that not only carbon dioxide should be said, because water vapor is the most important factor. And I don't think you guys should put an ecotase on those who cook. [[Laughter]] I am convinced that it would be great to explain in mathematics how these statistical calculations are made, these statistical models of climate change, how temperatures are obtained, the different climatic phases of the planet... All this would be great, but you don't do that. You want to form activists on the Greta, you want to have an army of individuals who are only dedicated to repeating their mantras, their ideological mantras, which are ruining our primary sector and our energy sector. [[applause]] In addition, you have done something rather curious - and I'm already going to the Bachelor's curricula; we'll talk about this already, we'll have more time to talk about it -, you'll allow me, with the History of Philosophy agenda. I have been a professor of History of Philosophy for thirty years and it turns out that you have gone in the haystack to look for a needle that does not exist and have found it so as to give a feminist bias to the History of Philosophy. They put us at Plato's and Aristotle's aspasia of Miletus! Surely everyone knows Miletus' Aspasia, philosophical Hispanism is well known. [[Applauds]] They place at the height of Plato and Aristotle a lady who was dedicated to rhetoric and who, apparently, according to some sources, also 2 They place it at the height of Plato and Aristotle! [[to the oldest trade in the world, the one that so much likes Andalusian socialists]] [[Laughter]] But we go to the Middle Ages and there they put poor Saint Hildegard, a Benedictine nun who dedicated herself to natural history, not philosophy. Natural history is the way in which natural sciences were called at that time; that is, a bit of botany, a bit of geology. What does this lady, who, at best, could say that she is theologist, in a curriculum of History of Philosophy, paint? Why? By their chromosomes? Those that, apparently, don't exist according to gender theory? You'll tell me, 'cause let's see what he looks like there! [[Applauds]] It will not be because of your feminism, because, come on, you tell me that a Benedictine nun is a defender of feminism, for up to that point we have arrived. In the Illustration you also put two perfect strangers, Mrs. Olimpia de Gouges or Mary Wollstonecraft, very famous because you went to France to see how they guillotined poor Marie Antonieta. That's all. We don't know anything. It is true that the French made a text called Vondication of the rights of men and Vondication of the rights of women, where, by the way, she defends virginity; that is, a feminist for this lady too. [[Laughter]] It's amazing. But absurdity comes in the Modern and Contemporary Philosophy, where you place next to Carlos Marx no less than Hannah Arendt, a fierce anticommunist! They put her next to Carlos Marx! [[Laughter]] Man, you could have put Rosa Luxemburg, even if it were. Well, no, sir, Hannah Arendt, a defender of pluralism and democracy, and they put her next to Carlos Marx. And to finish the matter, in the Contemporary Philosophy you forget the father of phenomenology, of Edmund Husserl, you forget Bertrand Russell and all his contribution to the logic and theory of science, you forget Gustavo Well, the father of philosophical materialism, you forget Unamuno and you put us to the testist, Maria Zambrano, who, by the way, was also dedicated to the phenomenology of religious fact. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Another feminist. And they also put Simone de Beauvoir there, but they don't put us in their partner, Jean-Paul Sartre. It's amazing. What is the criterion for deciding the authors of the History of Philosophy? What's in your crotch? Is that the criterion? Come on, it's just amazing. From a philosophical point of view, it is inadmissible for you to make this trap to sneak up in the morning here to non-partisan characters. 2 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. See page 110. of the history of philosophy and whose contribution to the history of philosophy is as irrelevant as that of Minister Iceta to the classical ballet. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] And, finally, mathematics. You have eliminated the rule of three in Primary, you have eliminated the Roman numerals, but it is that in the ESO and in the Baccalaureate you have eliminated the theorem of the breast and the theorem of the cosine. It must be that the breast has no gender perspective. They've eliminated Cramer's theorem, Bolzano's theorem, they've delayed the study of equation systems. This is said by a professor, a doctor in Mathematics, Carlos Madrid, in an interview with the national newspaper. You've removed the algorithms. In other words, it seems that the gender perspective consists in lowering the content to make mathematics, perhaps, more attractive. I remembered Euclid's anecdote. Euclid wrote his geometry elements because Pharaoh Ptolemy asked him to do so. I wanted to learn the man. When Euclid gave him those elements of geometry, Pharaoh did not understand anything and asked him to do something more digestible, something, let's say, with Pharaoh's perspective, to understand it, but Euclid said to him: Majesty, there are no real ways to learn geometry. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] I mean, there are no smooth roads, plains, no hindrances, on which Pharaoh walked with his chariot. There are no real ways to learn geometry, nor to learn physics, nor to learn mathematics, nor philosophy, nor history. The only real path is the effort, the study, the discipline, that with what you want to end with your general approval, with your elimination of numerical notes, etc., favoring those who can afford a private education and harming the Spanish people, who are forced to eat that ideological papilla that you provide them. [[applause]] That's what public education leads to, but don't worry about it because this will change. There is already a political party that promises that if it comes to power - and it will be sooner than later - it will put all Spanish students on an equal footing, studying the same according to any model they study and with no prospect of being Basque, Catalan, Andalusian or Murcian. All the same, all the same, all according to their merit and ability. Madam Minister, what you have just done is an attack on public education, no matter how much you say you defend it. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, applause.- Various Members: Very well! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u224	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first step of ignorance is to boast of knowing, said Baltasar Gracián. [[Applauds]] I recognize that I am astonished, Mr Robles, by this inquiry. It is very curious and the truth is that it is very good that those who deny feminism, those who deny that there is male violence, today want to talk about women and sexuality. It's very curious. That you, a political party that denies the reality of macho violence, want to come here and talk to the rest of the women about what equality and feminism means is, at least, cynical and ironic. Several women have been quoted. Maria Zambrano had to be exiled from this country by the dictatorship, that stage that seems to you to long so much. Olimpia de Gouges was guillotined, precisely because she tried to defend rights in favour of women, and that was her fault and her conviction. [[Applauds]] When you enter this door, when you enter this House, the least you have to do is to climb up to this rostrum by projecting respect for this House and for the Members who set it up, to tell the truth, not to miss the truth and not to lie, and you, ladies and gentlemen, feel very comfortable in the bubble, in the infamy, in the fake, that's where you feel comfortable, that's where you do politics. This morning we have heard many lies from Mr Abascal, and look, there is nothing worse, the worst enemy in education is lies, the worst thing that can happen to education is teaching to lie, and that is what Mr Abascal did this morning. [[Applauds]] If you want to know, if you want to know the reality of the subject of Philosophy, I will give you advice, go to the BOE, study and read, and there you will check the truth; study and read the BOE. [[rumors.-Applause.]] As I know you are not going to do, as I know you prefer to take possession of lies and fakes, I will explain to you how philosophy remains in this country's educational system: so far - you are a philosopher - philosophy was an optional subject in the ESO; today it will be able to remain an optional subject in the ESO, because the autonomous communities, which have competence in educational matters, that they consider, will continue to propose it. But it is that we have also recovered the compulsory subject of Philosophy in 1st and 2nd of Baccalaureate; that is what happens following the adoption of the educational law and the decrees of the ESO. [[Applauds]] In addition, we recover a subject that, given their intervention, I understand that they need and also like, which is the Education in Civic and Ethical Values, which is to be studied compulsory in 5oo in 6o of Primary and also in 3o in 4o of the ESO, which will be mandatory for all students. So don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, Philosophy is going to be studied in this country; the boys and girls in this country are going to study Philosophy. Moreover, it will be very useful to you, especially to understand what negationism and populism means, where you feel extremely comfortable. [[Applauds]] I thought that with this interpellation we were going to be delighted with some proposal in the field of education; we were not surprised, ladies and gentlemen. When you talk about education or anything else, you always do it as a catastrophe and always as if we were talking about a horror movie, because that's your way of doing politics, that's your big contribution. You only know how to tweet, trembling headlines, because your only goal is to try to prove that everything that has been done in this country in the field of education is wrong from 1978 to the present. Good thing it looks like you, the leaders of VOX, are coming with that cloak of countrymen to save us all and turn the situation around. But I wonder, what would you do about education? Because I listen to them carefully and this is the first time I have heard a proposal. I say: since here in this rostrum they do not make any proposals, I am going to go to that rumbling agenda called the Agenda Spain. I've read it, and there's a phrase from Buñuel that said: flojico, Luis, flojico. Well, that's his schedule: loose. [[Applauds]] Little effort has been made to print you on that Spanish Agenda. When one sees it and reads it, one finds only occurrences, barbarities and even some clearly unconstitutional question, and they take advantage in educational matters to reaffirm that they do not like our country at all. Because you don't stop criticizing our country, you don't hurt Spain, you hurt the Spanish and you're left with Spain, the real Spain, the different Spain, the Spain of freedom and the Spain of the 21st century. [[Applauds]] By the way, now that you are going to rule in Castile and León, I imagine you are going to immediately ask Mr Mañueco to return to the State the competences in educational matters, I imagine this will be his first request. It was his great dream, now you have the opportunity to do so: end of the autonomous state and re-centralisation of the state; it will not be that now that you are going to take office you soften those heroic convictions. [[Applauds]] Mr Robles, after listening to you, I have to tell you that your educational proposals are neither realistic nor responsive to any contemporary pedagogical principle, nor do they have anything to do with the aspirations and needs of Spanish society of the year 2022. A scratch in their proclamations and the only thing that comes out is their ongoing work of misinformation and manipulation on the reality of our country and also on our education. You are asking me here to speak of ideological indoctrination and the lowering of the academic requirement of the new curricula. Frankly, I as a minister would have liked to have a calm debate on this issue, but with you it is impossible. You have not raised the question for us to talk about proposed issues or issues that can improve the quality of our educational system, but since you want to talk about ideological indoctrination, he asked: who is to you responsible for ideological indoctrination? Who is it for you? Do you think that this minister every night, when she comes home, picks up the phone and calls the seven hundred thousand teachers who are currently serving in the schools of the Spanish educational system? [[Applauds]] Surely that is the model that you would like to do, which leads me to ask you: is it indoctrinate in all the autonomous communities? Are you going to indoctrinate in the Autonomous Community of Castile and León? Is he indoctrining himself in the Autonomous Community of Murcia? All I ask of you is respect; respect for our teachers, respect for our teachers, respect for our teachers and for our teachers; respect for the educational community, for their authority, for their autonomy, because they are responsible for forming and educating the most sacred we have, who are our young people and our children. So, please, more measure and more respect, than they deserve. [[Applauds]] And what you criticize as indoctrination is just the opposite, and it is that you advocate censorship, which is now true that you call it parental pin, because that was precisely the way to indoctrinate in past times that you seem to want to relive. In those days, it was indoctrination like this, through censorship of what was not allowed to speak or teach; it was not possible to talk about sexuality, affectivity, democratic values, it was forbidden to talk about a good part of history, equality or diversity. Therefore, what you are advocating is that it should be called indoctrination, and otherwise it is called freedom. And look, if you want us to talk about the curricula, you should know - it was explained in the last appearance - that the curricula have been created, elaborated with the collaboration of all the autonomous communities, we have participated with the seventeen autonomous communities, with a very important number of professionals, teachers who know the reality of the day-to-day life of our classrooms, and I deserve all the respect of the world. These curricula that you despise follow all the recommendations made to us by international bodies; they are the same curricula that are being used by the most advanced countries in the field of education, those countries of northern Europe. I know you despise them, but honestly, I don't think you've even bothered to read them. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish, because I will continue to listen to you, to see if in this second part of the inquiry you have any proposals to make to me. I will tell you something that I am sure you will like, Mr Robles: to serve Spain is to have served it for years, to be serving it with responsibility now in difficult times, with high eyesight, and to be willing to serve it with loyalty and commitment for many years. We have been, are and will be serving our country. Not you. You were not and are not now because you do not hold your shoulder in difficult times for the Spanish and for the Spanish. And they will not be because citizens want to support solid and serious projects, and you are pure smoke; toxic, but smoke. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u226	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u227	Mrs. Joy, I don't presume to know, I'm socratic, I just know I don't know anything. The problem is that you ignore until that, that you don't know anything. [[Applauds]] Look, again and again he accuses us of not making proposals, and my colleague Georgina and I have made hundreds of proposals in the Education Committee. They are all rejected because, apparently, they come from the far right. Time and time again they're rejected. For example, we have proposed that a single State selectivity be made, which you do not want because you do not want to harm the relationship you have with the separatists. We've made hundreds of proposals and they don't admit any. Then you come here and say that we do not propose, of course we propose! For example, we propose that you comply with the Constitution, that you comply with article 20.1 (c) of the Constitution establishing freedom of tenure. [[Applauds]] And chair freedom has a double meaning, according to the Constitutional Court's ruling of May 1981 and the Supreme Court's ruling of December 2005. Firstly, the freedom of a professor says that the teacher has the right, in disciplines of a dialectic nature, to take the view he considers most appropriate to his loyal knowledge. That is the positive point of view. And the negative is that the teacher has the right to refuse to be a belt of transmission of an official doctrine. [[Applauds]] You seek to impose the law of historical memory as an official doctrine and to accuse anyone who steps out of the path you mark of hate crime. You do not presume to be a Democrat because this has nothing democratic. And as for you being the greatest exponent here of what the Spanish people apparently want, I'm going to show you a small chart so you can see how the polls are. [[Shows a graph.-Laughter]] The Spanish people are beginning to turn their backs on them now, and I assure you that when we have powers of government we will change teaching and for good. You have been indoctrining or trying to indoctrinate, not teachers; teachers conform to the agendas and according to your ideology. We are not going to impose any kind of indoctrination. You're talking about the parental pin. Look, the parental pin was invented by the UCD. When the official ideology of that time was Catholic religion and morals, the UCD invented parental pin, giving parents the opportunity to choose another indoctrination. Which you don't do, which forces everyone to go through the stone of gender ideology, LGTBI laws, historical memory, etc. [[Applauds]] So don't tell me stories, I already know them all, because I've been teaching for many years. Don't tell me stories, Minister. Parental pin is a right of parents, recognized in paragraph 27.3 of the Constitution. That is why we take LOMLOU to the Constitutional, because it violates constitutional requirements, which you have already done at least three times, so we know about our complaints to the Constitutional Court. You tell us about the Agenda Spain. The Agenda Spain is a very general document. Whenever you want I will explain to you what our educational project is and what we intend to do with education. And I repeat it for the umpteenth time. What we are trying to do is to put all Spaniards on an equal footing, that there should be no evidence of selectivity, that everyone should study the same, that there should be no different curricula depending on where one is born, or that there should be no different curricula depending on whether one is studying in the public, in concert or in the private. [[Applauds]] To study the same in Andalusia as in Catalonia. And, by the way, left-wing gentlemen, who end the betrayal that you are committing in Catalonia against the most disadvantaged classes, which are those who have Spanish as their usual language, and are adding to it a difficulty, because you are forcing them to immersion in Catalan. Here everything is presented as very beautiful and, apparently, this is for them to learn two languages, so that they are bilingual. No, that's not true. This is to make a non-existent homeland based on ethnolinguistic criteria. [[Several Members: Bravo!-Applause]] And you're consenting. So, please, don't lecture me and insult me by saying that I presume to know, a knowledge I don't have. Philosophy means that one seeks knowledge, and if one seeks it it is precisely because one does not have it. You - as Santiago Abascal said this morning - are not a philosopher, you are a sophist, because you have a knowledge or you think you have a knowledge that is useless, and you even ignore it. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u228	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mary Zambrano said philosophy is a preparation for death and the philosopher, the man who is mature for it. You, Mr. Robles, have shown that you are neither mature nor a good philosopher. [[Applauds]] I deeply regret your intervention. I deeply regret your intervention because I believe that talking about education from a constructive point of view, in a serene way, is always important to our country, but in times of difficulties like the one we are going through is really primary, absolutely paramount. It's impossible with you. You are the living expression of a political party living from the chascarillo and rudeness, and so it is very difficult to be able to talk to you, even to raise constructive questions. [[applause]] I am convinced that many teachers, many teachers and many teachers, despite the hours of debate, will be watching and listening to us. What you have done here today in this inquiry has been all but a constructive speech, less a speech in favor of our educational system. And I, despite listening to your intervention, tell you that I am deeply proud of the progress that we as a country have had and have had our education system, because today our country, after coming from a dark stage of more than forty years, can enjoy a practice of universalization of children's education, a giant step that our country has taken; and something really important: we have managed to extend compulsory education until the age of 16; we have multiplied the percentage of university graduates to exceed the average of the European Union, or we have reduced the dropout rate as never before. It is true that we still have to continue to take steps, but for the first time our country is 13.3% out of school. All these achievements may seem a frivolity to you, but, of course, it is an effort that our country has made and that I am deeply proud of. I have to recognize something, too. The educational model you and the one we have is radically opposite; it is true. You, even if you don't say so, defend an education system that expels; an elitist education system; an educational system that doesn't give everyone opportunities. You defend an educational system that divides us to the good from the bad, to those who can from those who cannot. That's really his model. [[Applauds]] Yes, they're disheartened through tweets and sophistication, but that's the reality. You don't believe in that education that gives everyone opportunities, regardless of their skin color, where they come from, what their identity is, what they call themselves or where they live. That is your problem, that we defend equality in education for all and you for a few. Just for a few. [[Applauds]] That's a root problem, hard to solve. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not do politics, you are engaged in politics, and it is politics that suffers. But I will also tell you something: the more political you bring more serious and rigorous politics we will continue to do to others. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX parliamentary group, some stands, directed towards Mr Robles López]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Robles, you informed him that, on the basis of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure concerning your first intervention, namely the phrase, 3 for lack of decorum and for being offensive logically for the House and for the Andalusian socialists themselves, will be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. [[the oldest trade in the world, the one that so much likes Andalusian socialists]] [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the difficult management of the State-owned company Correos and Telegraphs, S.A. [[File number 172/000192]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u231	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Poor Management of the State Anonymous Postal and Telegraph Society, S.A. For your defence, Mr Delgado Arce of the People's Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u232	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you raised this question with seriousness and respect to speak at the Congress of the Deputies of the State Anonymous Postal and Telegraph Society, the postal public operator, the largest Spanish public company, one of the main companies in the country by size, capillary and human capital, no less than 52,456 employees throughout the Group of Postal Affairs. It is a provider of physical, digital and parcel communications, and is the public operator designated to provide the Universal Postal Service in Spain, depending on this reason on the Ministry of Transport, but also, as a member of the public business sector, integrated into the SEPI Group, under the control of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service. Minister, we are extraordinarily concerned about the management of Post Offices, in particular of President Juan Manuel Serrano Quintana, who with no experience of business management was appointed in July 2018 by Pedro Sánchez, according to criteria of friendship and political coincidence, since he was his chief of staff in the Federal Executive Committee of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, Serrano Quintana is leading the Group of the European People's Party to a critical situation of difficult reversibility, unless the Government reacts immediately. The demoralization and discouragement of people working in Post Offices are capitalized. Minister, are you aware of the critical financial and economic situation of Post Offices, near the collapse? In the year 2020 the State Postal Company had a catastrophic result, with a negative operating result of 353 million euros and losses of 256.68 million euros. Indeed, the year 2020 was a year in which the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic were felt and there was a setback, a decline in what is the traditional postal segment, however, in the area of messaging and parcelry the year 2020 was a year of growth in general. According to the annual report of the postal sector of the National Securities Market Commission of 2020, operators in this parcel and courier segment grew by 17,6 %. Well, Minister, the turnover of the public operator in this segment fell by 12.9% compared to the previous year. That is to say, in the year of the explosion of electronic commerce by the confinements, the public operator loses turnover in relation to the previous year, as its competitors, as I said, grow. Ladies and gentlemen, the losses of this postal company in the year 2021, in the year of recovery, in the year when things began to improve, will probably reach EUR 100 million. But the figure is even higher if you increase the sale, which was made almost the last 3 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. See page 105. day of the year to make up the accounts, of the main building of Correos de Valencia for 26 million euros; a regrettable way to decapitalize the company. The company's cashflow is negative for the first time in society's history. Credits amounting to EUR 433 million had to be requested to cover short-term payments; a credit line of EUR 600 million had to be requested, because the group's debts had been multiplied by ninety times by the fall in its own funds. Ladies and gentlemen, if these decisions are not corrected in the short term, the value of the company's liability will exceed the asset and Post will go into technical bankruptcy, and the government that led to the appointment of Serrano will be the last responsible. What control is the State Society of Industrial Participation doing of what I have just said? Minister, are you aware of the irrational policy of human resources and decapitalisation that is taking place in the company? Since Mr Serrano's arrival as president of this society, there has not been a single month in which a high-skilled worker - deputy directors, area chiefs, senior technicians - has not ceased to be either a worker or a civil servant. Only in the last four months have a total of 20 managers been dismissed with conciliation in the mediation service, many of them with truly scandalous compensations. And worst of all, these people are immediately registered by competition companies, which clearly take advantage of the know-how and knowledge of these people. The President of the Post Office, Mr Serrano, is appointing for senior management positions persons who do not have the necessary qualifications to be in charge of the responsibilities entrusted to them, and we even believe that there are appointments that have been made without the authorization of SEPI. A unique case has been that of the CEO of Correos Express, appointed in 2018, Avelino Castro. Express mail is a subsidiary of the Post Group, as you know. Well, since his appointment, this company has experienced a series of disproportionate cessations and abandonments of company managers and cadres, when they were people who had placed Express Posts in black-numbered situations, i.e. in positive results. Much of the leadership of the Correos Express directive has gone to competition companies, have been registered, as I just told you a moment ago, and some, like the Portuguese company that has hosted these managers, have grown in 2020 by 70% in activity and 41% in billing. President Serrano, friend of Pedro Sánchez, has not been able to stabilize a management team to manage a company of the size and relevance of Post Offices. How is it justified that since the arrival of this responsibility, in the Presidency of Posts, there have been three Directors-General of Technology, three Directors-General of Commerce, three Directors of Human Resources and that those who carry out this responsibility do so provisionally since 2011? There are other paradigmatic cases, such as that of two people who had been fired from Post because they had not met targets, because their management was deficient. They were dismissed, compensated and reintegrated into the company as general manager of products and services in the case of Mr Zapatero Sierra and as director of operations in the case of Mr Herrera García. How is it possible for these people to be remunerated with salaries in excess of EUR 100 000? Madam Minister, are you aware of the policy of giving up correspondence and the policy of erratic diversification of Posts? Since his appointment as President of the Post Office, Mr Serrano has questioned everything he has done until his arrival, and carried out a simplistic analysis, in which it was concluded that the letters, the traditional correspondence, was to disappear, when in 2019 it represented 65% of the company's revenue. Communications with physical support since the presidency Mr Serrano has fallen to bits, above 40%. In no country in Europe has the physical replacement of the letter by electronic means occurred so quickly. Nor can the unbridled pricing policy that has been followed in Posts be viewed as positive. It has undoubtedly been the most active agent for the electronic replacement of the letter: price increases that have gone far above inflation and have clearly damaged the profitability of the company, because it has become much weaker before competitors. There are products, such as one with high profitability, advertising, which has recorded increases of 60%. So it's not possible to compete. And, with regard to diversification, of course diversification is necessary, but it has to be done with planning, it has to be done with control, it has to be done with caution, not in the way it is being proposed. And, as for the package, that segment of which I spoke to you, Minister, in which there has been growth, as with the sector as a whole, as a result of the company's cost structure, as a result of not being able to plan an adequate growth strategy and by that price policy, has been lost large parcel customers. Minister, are you aware of the failures in the policy of internationalization of the State Postal Society? Are you aware that the internationalization, for example, that has been raised with China, with the participation in a consolidating company, has not yet produced any kind of performance or benefit to the company Correos, to the company that has acquired that participation, and that such important customers as AliExpress, who was a huge parcel supplier, have been lost? Only the loss of this customer, not being able to offer it the right services and the right prices, has entailed losses of more than 5.5 million units of packages in 2011. The same applies to the investment in the purchase of a Portuguese subsidiary of Correos Express Portugal, which reports only 0.1 % of its total turnover to the Groupe Correos. Minister, I can also tell you about the failure of the new Post Office businesses, especially this last Post Office, the rental or hiring business of an aircraft supposedly to make the trade route between China, Europe and Latin America. To date he has not made a single commercial flight transporting parcels, he has only made two trips of a humanitarian nature recently. To date, not a single package has arrived through that channel. All this that I have just told you, which is a description of different areas of the company's performance, highlights that this company is not being well managed. The Ministry to which you belong, the Government to which you belong, Minister, cannot be profiled in this situation, must face up to the fact that, in the socio-economic context that Spain is experiencing, with a galloping public deficit, with excessive inflation, with a number of acute problems and situations, Post Offices cannot produce results that in two years are going to entail four hundred million euros of losses, and what is expected for 2022 is not exactly satisfactory. Correos is a great public, centenary, more than centenary company, with a great capillaryness, with a universal postal service that has been provided with quality in the whole of Spain but that in recent times has lost bell and power, and therefore, minister, I would like to hear your answers. What proposals do you bring us, logically, to set our position next? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u233	Thank you, Mr. Delgado. The Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Delgado, first of all, I would like to thank you for the tone of your speech, although, unfortunately, it is sometimes not the one your party has used to. However, the truth is that I also have to tell you that the last times the People's Party has questioned the government, both in this House and in the Senate, it has been on matters for which you were largely responsible. A few days ago they were asking for explanations and demanding the Government to lower energy taxes, ignoring that it was you who approved their increases and also forgetting to put on the table and in the debate all the measures that this Government has developed to address the solution. And they also did so with the pandemic: over and over again we have been accused of being impassioned by the so negative effects it has had on the economy and also on the day-to-day lives of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we have not seen you bring to this House a single proposal with a constructive spirit and, of course, we have not seen you put all the measures, all the resources that this Government has allocated to address the consequences of this health crisis, on the table. Today they bring to this House one more matter, of which they have also made their cape a saying. They ask the government for the poor management of the State Postal and Telegraph Society, another issue on which I will also show you here today with data that we dismantle their theories. I'll start at the beginning, Mr. Delegate. It is very important to highlight the will of the State Postal and Telegraph Society to enhance the public service it offers to ensure that all Spaniards, regardless of where they live, have a universal postal service of quality. And as Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, I would like to point out that in that effort Posts is not alone. A few months ago, on a proposal from my department, the Council of Ministers approved, by agreement of 1 June last year, the Universal Postal Service Delivery Plan. This plan incorporates, in addition to the universal postal service obligations, the conditions for financing these obligations, which have been validated by the European Commission in its decision of 14 May 2020. This plan has provided legal certainty, providing stability and sufficiency in the financing of this service. This puts an end to a precarious income situation that the previous Government does not resolve, Mr Delgado. And with regard to the management of Post Offices and Telegraphs, I will tell you about the audit report of the IGAE that it carried out to Post Offices on the financial year 2016, mandate of the People's Party, and that it will clarify the situation that the current government found when it arrived at the company. As to the viability of the company, the audit report pointed out that, if the way in which the financial burden was to be offset was not clarified, the problem of the treasury - the People's Party government, the year 2016 - would be aggravated. As regards recruitment, it proposed the necessary reform of the management and control systems of the company because serious breaches had been detected, such as infringement of the principle of transparency, infringement of the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination, lack of sufficient motivation in the award agreements, the inclusion of clauses contrary to Spanish law in the technical specifications or the establishment of vague and imprecise assessment criteria which encourage and enhance discretion in the award - the year 2016, the mandate of the People's Party -. So, as always, double measuring rod. I will tell you that precisely the current management team is devoting itself to putting this situation back on track. Already in December 2018, in the area of wages, employment, provision of jobs and also improvement of working conditions, Correos has fulfilled all its commitments in relation to stable and quality employment. Prompt calls have been made for the stabilization and replacement of 13,297 jobs to reduce the rate of temporaryity. In addition, the quality of employment will be strengthened in the 2022 financial year following the approved labour reform. This is the reality, and not the sophrases about the privatization of society that have sometimes been launched from this rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we see the public sector as an opportunity to ensure the equality of all citizens, of all, regardless of their place of residence or economic capacity. I will explain to you what you do, instead, when you rule. Thanks to you, in Andalusia, for example, public health has broken the record of referrals to private health: two hundred million euros and almost one million patients. Have you not heard that the Andalusian Council in one year has increased by 43% the budget intended to outsource health? [[Several Members: Run!]] Of course they do, because for the People's Party that is the real efficient management of the public. And in this I will be blunt: Post Offices will not be outsourced, Post Offices will not be privatized, because in that it is you who have experience. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I refer to employment data, which are sufficiently clear. For the recruitment of human resources, Correos analyses the variations of each environment and adapts its resources to the identified needs and carries out the provision of jobs, in accordance with the regulations of the company: firstly, through the transfer competition, which serves to meet the expectations of promotion, mobility and reconciliation of the family life of its employees; secondly, through procedures of admission, as fixed labour personnel, through public selection processes, and, finally, when temporary or short-term needs occur, it has a system of employment grants at the provincial level, whose bases are public, for the recruitment of personnel. In short, it is committed to stable and quality employment, and, more importantly, it does so within the framework of social dialogue, within the framework of legality, within the regulated procedures and, therefore, within the framework established legally, and not subject to any kind of arbitrariness, as you seem to drop. And when I told him that the company analyses the identified needs, it also does so to ensure the provision of postal service in all the municipal terms of the territory, both in urban and rural areas. In fact, in order to promote the provision of these services in areas of the so-called emptied Spain, Correos has focused on the formalization of collaboration agreements with different local and autonomous administrations to provide public services from the offices or by rural post offices. An automatic cashier deployment has been carried out to avoid financial exclusion, with a total of 1629 in the coming years. New electronic devices, totalling 21,882 PDA, have also been made available to its staff, from which they can be carried out at the same door of the home of any citizen, such as postal and parcel admission, collection of receipts, withdrawal and entry of staff, DGT environmental badges or payment by bank card and cash. And, by the way, I must also say that Correos and Renfe signed an agreement in 2019 that allows users to purchase their long and medium distance AVE train tickets through the public postal operator's network of offices. Undoubtedly, it is an agreement aligned with the new Post Office strategy to take advantage of all the potential offered by its network, making it available to administrations and companies and expanding the services and products offered to users. In addition, this agreement also increases the face-to-face points of sale available to Renfe, especially in rural or low-demographic areas. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Our signs are viability, employment, compliance with agreements and the provision of a public service where new needs are identified. So, really, stop doubting the management that is being produced in the Post Office by the current management team. This government is solving - and I repeat -, one after another, many of the problems that you created during your management, and - believe me - we will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u235	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Arce has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. Finally, with all cordiality, I am very sorry that you have written all your speech and do not refer to any of the issues I have raised, which are very important and serious. He talks to me about issues such as privatization, which I have not mentioned or asked for; on the contrary, I believe in the public character of Post. I do not know what health is talking about in Andalusia, because that degrades the parliamentary debate - I am telling you very clearly - and I also think that this area is being properly managed. But that's not the point, because the Post Office employees are watching us, they're seeing us, and what will they think when they talk about these things? [[Applauds]] In 2018, when the People's Party left the government for the motion of censure, a man named Javier Cuesta was president. The gross operating income at the end of the year was positive, of EUR 12 million. We left the number of packages with an increase of about 40%, the company's revenues had grown by 9% compared to the previous year, postal revenues increased by more than 6%, the company's reserves amounted to 580 million euros and its treasury was positive, worth 125 million euros. Like I told you, now you ask for money so you can pay the payroll. Really, you are not aware of the problem I am raising. This intervention is an alert. Here we talk about many things, and yet we have a public company of 52 000 employees, of which virtually nothing else we talk about in budgets, when the debate of the state-owned industrial participation society comes. This issue is really serious, because I bring you an inquiry that conveys the discouragement and demoralization of 52,456 postal workers-I don't say of everyone, I say of the vast majority - and I also bring the voice of parliaments, municipalities and deputies who have discussed very recent motions and non-law propositions in which they show their great concern for the drift of this public company. [[Applauds]] The public postal companies have a future, because really these worrying losses that I am talking about, of four hundred million euros, are not happening in other public postal operators. I'll give you some data. The French public company, La Poste, increased its revenues by 11% in 2021. The German company has grown in billing by 22,5 %, its EBIT is absolutely positive, demolishingly positive. The Portuguese company, the Belgian company and the Norwegian company are also involved. Why can't ours be on this path? We can understand a considerable loss, but with four hundred million in two years and a problem of financial management, human resources management, internationalization policy and such erratic diversification, I think it is reasonable for the Spanish Government to react. And to react in this case, in our view, is to make decisions in the body in which to do so, which is the general meeting of shareholders of the company Correos, in which the state representative, which is the representative of the State Society of Industrial Participations, must propitiate a process to initiate the removal in the post of that public manager - which is not a personal matter - who is currently at the head of the company, who is not giving the battle and is leading the company to this drift. I think what would be reasonable is not to keep waiting for things to get worse so that we later complain. It is not the same as a public company that has its own financial capacity and resources as a company that is in debt and about to be bankrupt. We want to secure the future of Post Offices, we want to secure the future of its employees, we believe in the present and future of this company. Of course, we support the process of employment consolidation to which you have referred; indeed, a process that begins at the government stage of the People's Party. That consolidation process we started, we applied it to reduce the temporality, which in Posts reached a worrying 25% of the staff, and you have not yet managed to reverse this process. And I'm going to give you another data: this past Christmas is the time when more jobs have been lost in Post Offices, about two thousand people, when it really took a lot more to attend to the service. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by insisting that a public company handles public money. But it's everybody's money, it's not a money that doesn't own. We are obliged, as parliamentarians in Congress, to control the action of the government of public sector companies, and so is Post Offices. Madam Minister, I know that some questions escape from the area of your ministry, which are within the area of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, but in any case, you have to be aware that we are facing a serious problem and we have to solve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u237	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. I am pleased that you agree with us on the importance of the public sector, of public enterprises and also on the quality of the provision of such public services. Of course, we're not used to it and we're not used to it when they rule. That is why he set the example of what has happened and what is happening with health in Andalusia. But welcome be that rectification and I hope you do the same when you rule, the same as you say or are saying in this case. Of course, I have to tell you that, despite the fact that you seem to be defending the role or importance of the public company Post Offices, the truth is that you have recently dedicated yourselves to setting up a contemptible campaign against that public company. You have spoken, and you do so permanently, of inefficient management. Before I tried to explain to you, also referring to the origin of certain difficulties that the company has experienced, that most of that problem arose when you were managing Post Offices in the previous government. [[Rumors]] You were talking about debt, but I will remind you of the EUR 32.6 million sanction imposed by a resolution of the National Commission on Markets and Competition. And I also remind you that this sanction refers to actions during the years 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, years in which you ruled, years from which you defend that extraordinary management. He also spoke in his initial intervention that Post Office was disposing of material resources, that it was decapitalizing and that it was being used for other uses. Your Honor, within the strategic lines of the Post Office and in this logical intention of equipping that company with the necessary optimization and the efficiency of its real estate assets, what has been done with respect to those goods that are susceptible to exploitation, because for the Post Office business, of course, they only generate expenses and risks, it has been to enable other state administrations, autonomous or local, to exploit them, and in this way to obtain the Post Office benefits. So much so that her own spokesperson, Mrs. Gamarra, being mayor of Logroño, signed an urban agreement between the city council and the Post Office in which a Post Office building was qualified to be used for a five-star hotel. Therefore, do not make selective memory and remember also the actions that you have performed and the mistakes and also the management failures that you made when you ruled. [[Applauds]] On the issue of parcelry, obviously Post has also developed the parcelry business exponentially in recent years. Proof of this is the result of the revenues: in 2019 Correos closed with a profit of 14,8 million euros, in 2020 the effect of the pandemic of the COVID-2019 caused, of course, a drastic fall of the shipments and therefore also of the billing, and however, the payment of the entire payrolls was maintained, and in 2021 its results were improved despite the effects of the pandemic, the continuous drop of the demand of the postal service or the slowing of the online consumption. With regard to the results account data, the EBITDA for 2020 was -315 million, the EBITDA for 2021 was reduced to -75 million, and this shows the improvement of the accounts from the hardest part of the pandemic, and that last year's accounts accounted for this fine from the National Market and Competition Commission generated, I insist, during the People's Party government, that 75% of the 33 million to be provided. Finally, on changes in human resources, they are driven by specific situations and performance issues. I shall conclude, Mr Delgado. As I have indicated before, the capital, economic, financial and labour situation of the Group of the Post Offices does not present any risks at present. This Government is firmly committed to ensuring the obligations of the universal postal service, we will ensure its public character and its financial sustainability. This Government and the team are doing their job well. I hope that you too will work to improve yours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u239	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u240	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's plan for the economy in the face of the current geopolitical situation. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u241	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have to try to be original after all day by talking about practically the same thing, although we are bringing today the motion resulting from the inquiry made by the People's Group last week to talk about the economic consequences of the current geopolitical situation. A year ago, we began to suffer an inflationary spiral, while the government once again despised the evidence and filled the newspapers with that of robust recovery. Today, after a year of continuous increases in light prices up to 80%, after more than ten months of rising fuel, 28%, and after several months in which families see how each end of the month becomes a new coast of January, it is no wonder, logically, that transporters, farmers, farmers, fishermen, in short, everyone, because today everyone in Spain is convinced that the economy, our economy, the Spanish economy, is on the verge of collapse and because at the forefront of it we have a government overwhelmed by the events that show itself unable to renounce its ideological dogmas in order to restore the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, while the President of the Government was speaking to us here this morning about the war in Putin, we have learned that Sánchez's inflation was set in March at a rate that has not been seen for thirty-seven years: at 9.8%. Families cannot reach the end of the month with 10% less resources, so it is not understood the government's interference, resisting to lower taxes, resisting to review public spending and relying everything on mere market interventions. It is a Government that is concerned to collect, but forgets to govern; a Government that drags its feet to take action and, when it does, succeeds only in making the situation worse. And it is that with Sánchez's solutions soon we will stop talking about passing inflation, which Mrs Calviño mentioned a year ago, not because it is over, but because we will have to start dealing with stagnation, which is already here and which is already going to start impoverishing millions of families. With Sánchez's solutions, today each Spaniard has 1154 euros less in his pocket than a year ago; with Sánchez's solutions, today prices, not counting energy, go up more than twice as high as wages. In addition, Sánchez's solutions are a trilling game: with one hand they give us 15 cents of subsidy per litre of gasoline and with the other they charge us one euro in taxes for that same litre of gasoline. Ladies and gentlemen, with these precedents and in the current context, it is not surprising that every day that Spain passes is less competitive, among other things, because the impact of energy costs on the disposable income of Spanish families is greater than in the countries of our environment. If a Spaniard pays 8,4 % of his income to pay the bill for light, a German only uses 6,4 %, but an Italian only uses 3,7 % of his salary. I remind you, gentlemen of the PSOE, that our income is already 13% lower than that of our European neighbours. Energy costs are increasing and, at the same time, we diverge in terms of per capita income with our European neighbours. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that the difference in the Spanish inflation rate vis-à-vis our partners is two more points and that prices rise by 40% more in Spain than in Europe is a real drama, not only because it impoverishes families in the present, but because it also condemns us in the future by making us a less competitive economy. And, in the current geopolitical context, in Spain's foreign policy with regard to the Sahara, which also opens up an unprecedented diplomatic gap with our other neighbour in the Mediterranean, with the Algerian country. And I ask myself: has anyone thought about the government what the cost to the Spanish economy will be for the Algerian government to feel betrayed by the Spanish government? Has anyone in the most advisory government of history -784 advisors - calibrated the impact of a unilateral decision of this caliber? As soon as possible, Spanish companies with interests in the neighbouring country will suffer a very high cost in their operating account, being marginalized, for example, in investment tenders. This morning we learned that Iberia's flight operations between Madrid and Algiers were suspended. On the other hand, while we are immersed in the biggest energy crisis in Europe over the course of the century, the Government has given up being an indispensable part of the European gas distribution coming from Africa. We are renouncing a strategic weight that will now fall on Italy which, logically speaking, is taking advantage of our weakness to become a natural gas distribution hub for Europe. If according to Pedro Sánchez we are an energy island, because of Pedro Sánchez we are going to be a mere rock, an islet in the middle of an ocean. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we already knew that the word of Pedro Sánchez is worthless. We have now also found that we cannot trust what you sign. Like buying him a second-hand car! It has lasted fifteen days for Pedro Sánchez his commitment to all the autonomous presidents. That is why, and not for anything else, we are bringing this motion to plenary today, a motion that calls on the Government to review macroeconomic forecasts. Funcas this morning has cut growth in 2022 by 1.4 points and Calviño has not reviewed the forecasts for six months. We call for a structural reform agenda to regain competitiveness and we call for a re-establishment of relations with Algeria. There are five points in the motion that could be summed up in one: that Pedro Sánchez fulfill his word for once, that Pedro Sánchez implement the agreements he reached with the presidents and that lower taxes to contain the inflation that impoverishes the Spaniards. [[applause]] Meanwhile, the People's Party - it has ended, President - will not fail to offer its hand extended to a collapsed government, to a government more concerned to stop the deterioration of its image than to offer rapid solutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u242	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u243	Do state policy, gentlemen of the Government, with loyalty, with sincere and genuine dialogue, with unity and for the general interest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u244	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u245	Thank you, President. It is true that the situation is not good. As you have already said here, today we have seen the CPI figure, the highest since 1985, mainly because of the rise in electricity, fuel, fuel and food prices. It is true that we have an unprecedented and uncertain situation. We were emerging from the recovery of the pandemic crisis, with many ups and downs - we must also say - with bottlenecks and lack of supplies, and we are faced with a situation that has arisen, which is the war in Ukraine, which has resulted in an unprecedented energy crisis that has, in fact, already altered political and economic agendas and requires different palliative measures to be put in place in the short term. It is a situation that is causing the various analysts, as the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group have said, to be making changes to the economic forecasts and, therefore, to growth. Of course, we believe that having a macro table, forecasts or as realistic an analysis as possible is necessary right now. We must therefore have an update of the forecasts in this new scenario in order to correct the measures and the path to be followed. That is what they propose to us in paragraph 1 of the motion, but, while we agree, the Vice-President seems to have already announced the forwarding of a revised macro-framework to Europe in April and will serve as the basis for the stability programme to be forwarded later. On the other hand, the motion proposes a series of generic measures or principles that are easy to comply with, because who does not want to resume a reformist agenda in order to regain the competitiveness of companies or the use of European funds in order to modernize the productive fabric? Here I understand that the Government is already doing so, although it is true that with its lights and shadows. We have the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and today the income pact has already been approved. We also did not fully understand point 3, because the commitment to La Palma stated that fiscal measures or rebates will be promoted to cushion the impact of energy prices and other aid to be proposed. The fact is that there have been tax cuts in the field of energy; there has been an approval and extension, such as the reduction of VAT on electricity or 0.5% of tax as well, as well as a number of other direct aids which are set out in that income pact. In conclusion, the last point concerns the restoration of diplomatic relations with Algeria. The truth is that our party does not know whether relations have been broken or not, because nothing has been clarified about this by this Government. It seems that for the moment the supply is insured, although it is true that Algeria can review those oil and gas contracts; but that would not happen until 2030 and therefore we have not just understood this point. It is a motion with some points that are being executed and others that have their lights and shadows. I do not know whether they are going to put the point vote or whether it is going to be just the full text of the motion. We will be waiting to position ourselves on our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u246	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u247	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The People's Parliamentary Group is bringing us today a motion resulting from an inquiry into the economic and geopolitical consequences of the war in Ukraine. In the explanatory statement, the proponent went back four years to confront the Socialist Party with massive increases in taxes, deficits, debt and lack of structural reforms. Of course, just look back four years, because if you look beyond you would have to talk about the Rajoy government with an absolute majority, which has been the government and the party that has made the most tax and tax increases in the fiscal history of this country. Look, we are not here to tell you if you or you do it worse; we are not here to tell you that you always defend in the opposition what you refuse to do in the government. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, alternatively]] We Liberals are here - and you and you should be here - to be useful to the Spaniards. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, alternatively]] To be useful is to reach agreements, to seal state covenants away from populisms; to commit and to commit an intense reformist agenda, as we have been proposing to them by the liberals since that 221 of the end of 2019, which both of you and you have rejected. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, alternatively]] [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, alternatively]] This country suffers from serious public policies that think about future generations. Do you know we've chained three economic shocks in fifteen years? Are you aware that there is a generation of young people who were born in the 1990s and who have known nothing other than the crisis in their adult lives? First, the financial crisis with its debt crisis and its cuts; then, the one originated by COVID-19 and, now, I renew a crisis with a war in Ukraine that puts the European economy on its feet in a way that had not been seen since the 1970s, since the oil crisis of 1973. That is the context, ladies and gentlemen, that is the framework for the debate. This is the reality where all of us, as political representatives, should show our usefulness. In its motion, the proposing group, the People's Group, calls, inter alia, to resume a reformist agenda aimed at restoring the competitiveness of our companies and our country. Well, of course, I can't agree more. But why have you and you not done anything, not a single structural reform for the last fifteen years in Spain? [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, alternatively]] I'm telling you. Because, instead of thinking about the next generations, they were only thinking about the next elections and they have been imported a pepper from our country, its modernization and its future so as to buy votes. Look, we're in a very serious geopolitical and socio-economic context; I think you're all conscious after the monograph we've had today. It is another crisis that catches us Spaniards on changed feet, without the structural reforms made and without a fiscal consolidation plan. Should urgent aid measures be adopted? Of course we have, but it seems that, despite being the slowest, we have not given much thought to the strategy or the effectiveness of this shock plan. We are adopting measures as if we do not have budgetary restrictions of any kind, with macroeconomic scenarios of both growth and inflation, outdated and unreal. Funcas, this very morning it dismantles the shock plan by saying that the impact to lower inflation will be very moderate, just a point. We do not know the cost of the deviation of inflation in pensions, in public salaries, in bonds indexed to inflation, and we have Damocles' sword from debt markets on an immediate horizon. We will support this motion because we share your demands. In fact, we were the first and only, for example, to request the deflation of the IRPF in January. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have to vote on measures in this House that are very difficult, very difficult. We need all the efforts and effort of all - families, workers, businesses, pensioners and the Treasury - to overcome what is coming. We, in serious work, in the work of reforms, will always have us working for this country, rule who rules. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u248	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u249	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are already taking a few initiatives in this House on the economic situation and the proposals made by the People's Parliamentary Group. Although we do not fully agree with this one, it is certainly a little more cautious than the one you presented at yesterday afternoon's sitting. But in any case, I'll do some thinking to see if I'm able to convince someone; I don't think so, but, well, I'll try. The review of the macroeconomic framework I believe is imperative. It is not going to be easy, I tell you, because the situation is of great uncertainty. However, it is curious that the People's Parliamentary Group included it in the subsequent motion for an inquiry, when in the interpellation itself the minister already told them that there would be a review of the macroeconomic picture in April. We are already going to have it; and I say to you that for you, for us and also for the government this will hardly be the last adjustment in the macroeconomic picture, as things stand. [[The lady]] But, beyond the situation and the forecasts, it is true - and I recalled it this morning - that the situation of inflation is a problem that is emerging, perhaps with some surprise, not only for the Government, not only for the Bank of Spain, not only for the different education services, but for everyone in general. It already appears with some force in May last year, because, indeed, in December we had 6.5%. Therefore, this 9.8% is not directly attributable to Ukraine's war in its entirety. Therefore, here the economy has a problem and, in addition, the Spanish economy has an additional problem. If you monitor the evolution of inflation and compare it with the rest of Europe, you will be able to appreciate that there is a much bigger gap in the Spanish economy that is not closing, is being maintained. Specific measures will therefore have to be taken not only at European level. But in order to take action, one has to be sure that the measures go in the right direction and, above all, that it is in a position to take them. If the situation of the conflict in Ukraine is not resolved with the invasion of Russia-it is more, even if the conflict can be resolved, if it is not resolved favorably so that Europe can lift the sanctions - this situation is not short-term or will be'short-term' for a long time. Action will therefore have to be taken today and action will have to be taken in the coming months. But, of course, you can't go up here and take the checkbook out like you don't have any limitations. Yesterday I recalled: we are almost 120% of public debt in relation to GDP. In 2011, when you started to raise taxes - and I didn't criticize it, but criticized it for not having foreseen it - we didn't get to 70%. Therefore, if in a situation like that, with 70% of public debt, you went up taxes because there was a problem of fiscal consolidation, we will have to agree that we are going to have a problem of fiscal consolidation, and this is not solved just by lowering taxes. We therefore disagree with these generalist solutions, which are somewhat populist, although we believe that action should be taken - and we are also urging the Government - in the economic sphere, not only in the short term, but above all in the medium term. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u250	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u251	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the text of this motion is a bit sluggish, it is a sluggish one. Have you read it well? The explanatory statement already contains statements that, at least, attract attention. Look, I'm going to give you an example. You say that instability in the economic framework occurs when the consequences of the financial crisis that began in 2007 have not been overcome. Do you realize that you are recognizing that during the Zapatero government, but also Rajoy's, not only did you not manage to cushion the effects of the crisis, but that you chronicle the structural, economic and social problems that arose as a result of the crisis and its disastrous management? A lapsus maybe? In any case, the honesty of the People's Party is appreciated. [[Applauds]] The ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group are full of their mouths, asking the Government to be more empathetic towards the workers and to carry out the reforms that will enable us to get out of the crisis. The same empathy that the government of Mariano Rajoy had when it approved the labor reform, which cuts the rights of working people and left one in four working people and almost half of the young people of working age unemployed? Do they claim the empathy that Fatima Báñez, Minister of Labour of the Rajoy Government, now in the leadership of the CEOE, assumed of the external mobility of our young people when they emigrated to other countries in search of opportunities that were closed to them here? Perhaps you are claiming the empathy that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, had when indirect taxes, such as VAT or on hydrocarbons, went up just at the time when 2 million households in our country were with all their members unemployed and 730,000 households without any income. Or the empathy they have recently shown by opposing the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage or the labour reform of Yolanda Díaz, which benefits the most vulnerable working people; less the comrade Casero, who is not, by the way. Or is he? No, he's not. Neither a lesson nor a lesson will you give us empathy, dialogue and how to deal with a crisis by protecting people, because if we have demonstrated something during the pandemic crisis it is that you can deal with a crisis in a way other than austerity, and the results are completely different. Precisely today, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers has adopted a package of measures necessary to cushion the impact of the effects on the economy that war has and that clearly have the stamp of the Union Podemos. Already on March 11 the minister and secretary general of Podemos, Ione Belarus, pointed out that it was necessary to launch a new social and green shield to protect families that included fixing the price of electricity in another way, significantly expand the social bonus of light and gas, increase the amount of minimum living income, establish direct aids for SMEs and ensure the border detection of Ukrainian women and girls victims of violence or trafficking. These proposals have been transferred to the Government - along with others, such as the limitation of rental prices - and, thanks to this work, measures will be put in place that have never been adopted before. Today we show once again that it is possible, that what is needed is political will to carry out the changes that citizenship needs. We are fully aware that this new social shield will have to be further strengthened and implemented, and we will continue to work on that. At the moment, we already have fuel subsidies, direct transport aid, direct aid to the primary sector, extension of the electric social bonus, increase of the minimum income vital, ICO credits, limitation of the price of rents... What have you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party done? What have you done in the autonomous communities where you govern? I'm telling you, nothing. They are only engaged in campaigning against the management of the Government of Spain. Do you know what is done in the autonomous communities where it governs the United Podemos, as in the Balearic Islands? Raising the amount of social income guaranteed, more food aid, measures to alleviate energy poverty and guarantee food, strengthening of teaching staff, bonuses to consume in local trade, we move from the sun tax to recognizing the right of self-consumption as a right of citizenship... Ladies and gentlemen, take note of the country's first autonomic shock plan, with an investment of 70 million; take note of this plan, because citizens need it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u253	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the Spanish economy has been facing the third economic crisis since 2008. Following the sudden contraction of GDP caused by the pandemic, Spain has been the only one of the major countries in the European Union that has not recovered its levels of GDP in 2019 and has not increased those levels. It is now facing the greatest supply shock experienced since the 1970s, under precarious conditions because of its fault: unsustainable public sector indebtedness, a labour market whose rigidities have increased its counter-work reform - it is now more difficult to create jobs -, very indebted families and companies with declining incomes, a crazy taxation and a new energy shock caused by the war in Ukraine, which brings us to the head of a scenario of stagnation. This scenario, compounded by its macroeconomic irresponsibility, has resulted in a devastating blow for businesses and families, who have not yet overcome the effects of COVID-19 and are entering a path that punishes and punishes their income and standard of living with enormous hardship. In the midst of the current electroshock, you maintain a macroeconomic picture that constitutes an insult to intelligence, everything is frivolity, a policy of gestures at the service of the President of the Government's agenda, committed to showing an image of statesman that is pathetic. To make the situation even worse, they have taken a radical turn in foreign policy towards Morocco without consulting anyone, without passing through Parliament, violating the resolutions - all - of international bodies on the Sahara and putting at risk the relationship with Algeria, which is our first gas supplier. If doing this in a normal scenario is essential, doing so in the midst of the worst economic crisis that Spain and the European Union have experienced in the past forty years is suicidal, and can only be explained for reasons completely outside the national interest. [[applause]] Maybe that's the price to pay for Mr. Sanchez to get a slap in the back of the sea. A supply shock caused by the increase in energy costs is not dampened by more public spending, by price controls, or by trapping the solitaire in the Falcon; the only short-term way to alleviate the impact on businesses and families is by reducing or suppressing taxation, which falls on electricity and hydrocarbons, which artificially raises the energy costs borne by Spanish families. This has been done by most of the States of the European Union, and you do not want to pay attention, because the rise in these prices provides them with extraordinary income for their energy demagogy and to make that agenda that you believe is necessary to continue to govern. This only helps to delay the exit from the crisis, to introduce ourselves into a new one without having come out of the previous one and to increase the economic and social costs that we will have to bear in order to overcome both. But the brutal upward impact of energy prices is also a demonstration of where its blindness and energy policy can lead us, because it does not guarantee Spain's security of supply. Its obsession is to shut down nuclear power plants, its criminalization of all non-renewable technologies, its stubborn opposition to greater interconnection with France and a long time and so on have exacerbated and exacerbated Spain's energy vulnerability, if there is no drastic change in orientation. His action in the field of energy is like the horse riding of Atila's horse, leaving nothing alive in his path. His incompetence is known; his sectarianism, I manifest; his irresponsibility, clear. [[The Lord]] To the sluggishness that you write every day you should add a new qualification for your government: you are gaffes. [[Applauds]] They attract upon themselves all imaginable biblical and deep plagues, and aggravate them with their pitiful measures. This government is in K.O. Technician. Unfortunately, the prolongation of their agony is in their hands, delaying the moment when citizens expel them from power, and in the meantime their ability to do harm is enormous. Every day Mr Sánchez and his party partners remain in the Moncloa, harder and harder it will be to rebuild the Spanish economy. As Larry Browne said, socialism breaks your legs and then gives you some crutches, or as Margaret Thatcher said, socialism goes well until someone else's money runs out. But I prefer a Spanish saying: year of reds, hunger and lice. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u254	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u255	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Castellón, I thought that after all the day we have been here, in this Congress of Deputies, it was clear to you what the situation in Spain is. He says we have a government overflowing with events. Well, do you know what I see and see millions of Spaniards in this country? A government committed to fighting the pandemic and the consequences of the war in Ukraine without the support of the main opposition party; that is what we see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Gentlemen of VOX, you are installed in the bubble, because you have turned the lie into your only tool to deceive people. You know why? Because in this country, although it weighs and pains them, today there are twenty million people affiliated with Social Security, a record figure in history, and we are also reducing the temporality thanks to the labor reform of this government; that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] And in all this context, today the People's Party brings us a motion, ladies and gentlemen, which essentially asks for three things: an investment and reform plan, a plan to reduce the cost of energy and a plan to respond to the situation and consequences of the war in Ukraine. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I'm sorry to tell you that we already have these three things. The first is called Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan with European funds; a plan by the way, which has been described as outstanding by the European Union. The second, the government has been working for months on reducing the energy bill: we have reduced VAT from 21 % to 10 %, we have set the legal minimum on the excise duty on electricity, we have put on hold 7 % of the tax on the value of electricity production or we are driving the thermal social bonus, and now, moreover, there is a very important agreement in the European Council, which will allow the price of gas to be reduced and with this also the price of electricity - yes - thanks to the leadership of Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] And the third is precisely the National Plan to Respond to the Economic and Social Consequences of the War in Ukraine, which was adopted yesterday by the Council of Ministers and which today the President of the Government has given good account in this rostrum. A plan that talks about new ICOs, a plan that increases the amount of minimum living income, that reduces or limits the increase of rents, with direct aid to the sectors most punished by the crisis in Ukraine such as transport or livestock, in short, a plan not to leave any company, sector or family on the way. [[Applauds]] The problem of all this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - I don't know if you know them, I understand that you know it, because it would already be a problem that you don't know these measures - is that you have voted against them all in this House, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, at the worst time of our lives, when what was needed is to have a party that will join a parliamentary majority to help people. [[applause]] And the question has been asked by the President of the Government also in this rostrum: what more has to happen?, what more has to happen in this country, ladies and gentlemen, in order to count once on the People's Party?, what more has to happen, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a new or old policy, it is a good or a bad policy, and you have been practicing bad politics for two years and are still on the same path. I will explain it very quickly: if the Government now approves the plan to respond to the war in Ukraine, it is late; if the Government had approved it two weeks ago, it is that it approves it without anyone and without listening to anyone; if last week you saw well that President Macron in France said that he was going to lower 15 cents the price of fuel, today the Government of Spain drops it 20 cents and it seems to you bad. That's your thing, do you realize that? One thing and the other, and that is how they carry the whole legislature, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. But I tell you one thing, they can fool someone for a while, but they can't fool everyone and certainly not for a long time. In addition, it ended, the Government of Spain had shown that it was possible to do things differently. We have shown that there was an economic policy different from yours: cuts, privatizations and massive tax increases. Now, all we're asking for is unity. Ladies and gentlemen, let them support your country, the people who are having a bad time. That's what this is about, and they haven't been in the whole legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u256	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, in order for the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to report on the demands of the calls to the 20M event, the Government's response to the same, the planned actions to address the crisis affecting the primary sector and the whole of the agricultural system, exacerbated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the destabilization of the international markets in raw materials, and the impact on the Spanish agricultural system. [[File number 173/000138]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u257	Finally, today, we continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group to Congress, so that the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food will report on the demands of the callers for the 20M demonstration, the response of the Government to them, the actions planned to deal with the crisis that has been facing the primary sector and the entire agri-food system, aggravated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the destabilization of the international markets in raw materials and the impact on the Spanish agri-food system. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion and of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Marcos Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u258	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the image of the Spanish countryside. [[Shows a photograph of the 20-M demonstration]] This is not the happy Arcadia you just drew us, this is not a series of Netflix; this is the real Spain, the one that gives us food, the one that instead of winning loses by working, the one that does not arrive at the end of the month and throws the milk because nobody can pick it up. [[applause]] There are 400,000 honest people, 400,000 people with a loud and clear voice asking for respect. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed that 84% of Spain's territory, which is our rural world, must be respected by your Government. [[Applauds]] There is one before and one after March 20, even though the Government did not dignify itself to call them until a day ago, until yesterday, ten days later. There is one before and one after March 20, and there will be one before and one after March 20 for farmers, fishermen, regants, hunters and livestock farmers if you support this motion. Proposals? Up your shoulder, here they are. I am grateful for the dialogue of the political groups, especially those who have made improvements, because the proposals in this contingency plan have no political colour, common sense, rigour and technical support. This plan has nothing that is not essential and urgent to approve at this time. All proposals have normative support in our country. In addition, proposals are approved by the European bodies - by the College of Commissioners, by the European Commission, by the Council of Ministers - and even implemented already in some of the European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands that they apply also in Spain or that we lose a train that will not happen again. Make it clear that if the Spanish food system has problems, we will have each and every one of the Spaniards because we need to eat. The problem isn't new, it's been two years on the streets. And it is not just the crisis in Ukraine, it is a problem aggravated by the crisis in Ukraine, and you intend to solve it now by running and speeding up, in an improvised way, with reforms and with short-term proposals. Do you know that Italy or France made the proposals more than two weeks ago, and that France, for the livestock sector alone, has put in more than 400 billion? It's more than you've put together for all sectors! But what else has to happen? Yes, what more has to happen if the government is to respect them as other European governments do? What else has to happen if the government is to take the rural world seriously? [[Applauds]] The Minister of Agriculture has been in office for four years without doing anything, feeling everything: reputational attacks, cuts, lack of funds and trying to convince us that, with the amendment of the law of the chain, everything was resolved. Ask the farmers if they are covering the production costs. Please explain why the Government refused to regulate and define them, as requested by the People's Party, in the Chain Act. They will not be surprised that, two years later and with the production costs fired, they no longer deceive anyone. That is why they said loud and clear the 20M that doing nothing is not an option when supermarkets have empty linears, when feeding animals costs in a fortune, costs are triggered and nobody pays them, farms are closed and the price of energy, feed and fertilizers are absolutely insurmountable. There are solutions, of course there are. In the People's Party we have gathered them in the thirty proposals that form this contingency plan, rigorous and not improvised. Our proposals complement and improve those adopted by the Government. That is why I am absolutely sure that your ladies and gentlemen are going to approve them and agree because the first thing is to have food and, to do so, we must prioritize production on any other ecological or ideological issue. That is why revising the CAP and the European Green Pact is more urgent than ever. The French president has proposed it, what will Spain do? Will it at least revise the CAP National Strategic Plan, which was sent to Brussels without consensus? They will also agree that it is necessary to make production profitable, because no one works for love of art, there are no magic formulas: either you spend less or you enter more. Of course, what they have published today in the BOE is neither one thing nor the other. It does not guarantee the correct flow of the food chain, nor does it ensure that costs are paid or that the products at source are collected. Trucks cannot remain stationary and the goods cannot be uncollected for one more day. [[Applauds]] We have to put solutions on the table and we have brought them. I will sum them up very briefly: use the extraordinary fund of EUR 5 billion you have to have. It was a proposal of the Socialist Party - yes, they were in opposition -: 1000 million euros a year for exceptional situations. We are in an exceptional situation and from 2018 until today it has been five years, that is, 5 billion. Apply now, we don't understand why they don't. They keep the word that Mr Sánchez gave to the presidents of the autonomous communities and lower taxes immediately. [[Applauds]] Lower food VAT to 0%, it was authorised by the European Council last year and recommended by the College of Commissioners on 23 March. Leave tax exemptions to farmers who charge less than EUR 60,000 in the CAP, reduce the IRPF modules to 50%, and grant temporary exemptions to Social Security. Do not make moratoriums, but exemptions. Energy is already 70% of production costs. They authorize the double electric billing and the energy bill in the waterings, which we have been waiting for since 2018. There is a popular outcry, the outcry of the farmers, the farmers and the fishermen of this country, who can no longer stand it. Small cheese shops, handicrafts, agri-food and family businesses are closing for dozens every day. If the farms are not profitable, no food will be produced in Spain. We'll eat whatever they decide to produce other countries, we'll depend on what they want to sell us.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u259	Your Honor, you must finish, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u260	We will pay whatever they want to charge us and, moreover, without any control over emissions to the planet. The Spanish rural world has only this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u261	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u262	I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u263	Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u264	Let us not let the alternative be to continue with street protests, empty shelves and tied boats. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u265	Your Honor, your time is over a lot.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u266	Without a rural environment there is no future, and the future in Spain is in the rural world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u267	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-The President holds the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u268	For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Group, which will also fix its position on this occasion, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u269	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a safe place to live and work, with profitable agricultural farms, fair agricultural prices, that is, a rural environment with opportunities and future, which needs the determined attention of the Government, is what the demonstrators from all over Spain called for on 20 March. The Government cannot ignore these requests from a rural world that wants to live. Their demands are not a demand arising from opportunism, because it responds to really structural causes. The Government must understand that the rural environment has a very serious problem. The origin dates back many years, however, successive governments and autonomous communities, beyond point patches, do not take decisive measures to modernize the sector and make farms profitable. Thus, for example, neither government nor opposition expected this protest. Agricultural structural problems threaten to collapse farms due to a lack of viability. In order to correct these problems, we have tabled several amendments to the motion by the Group of the European People's Party, although we have not been able to reach an agreement. We, like many agricultural unions, believe that there is a problem with the current CAP, which urgently requires an update despite being so recent, to include equal treatment among farmers, as well as priority attention, above all, to the professional farmer, eliminating historical rights, which are not rights but only customs, for the convenience of administrations to modify them. We believe that there is a very serious problem of lack of profitability due to the shortage of inputs, electricity, diesel, and in parallel to the very low prices of agricultural products at source. Faced with this, the law of the food chain must be rigorously enforced and, as our amendment argues, guaranteeing fair prices to farmers, preventing sales below production costs in the chain itself. On the other hand, it is clear that there is a lack of support for innovation and the circular economy in the agri-food industries, as another of our amendments advocates, for example, to be able to produce and market biogas from purines. Another of our amendments argues that the farm strategy to the European Union Bureau is necessary as a nuclear measure of European agricultural policy in order to make agricultural products more sustainable and of higher quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u271	Thank you very much, Madam President. Farmers, fishermen and farmers, and the entire Spanish primary sector, are suffering one of the worst crises in several decades. The multitude of public demonstrations to demand urgent measures to alleviate their unsustainable situation and that of the entire agri-food system are the product of a perfect storm that, once again, has caught the Government from improvisation. A four-year continuous management path, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food continues to rebuy decisions of the European Union that have relegated Spain's interests over and over again. Our rural environment is broken down by the lack of services, the lack of investment and now, with the prices of fuel, supplies and uncertainty arising from inflation and the concern to be producing at a loss, it is possible to discover that there is no decisive policy in favour of our primary sector. Add in the specific case of Asturias the problem of the wolf, discrimination, the allocation of fishing quotas, territorial isolation and the decisive failure of the autonomous policy reflected in the neglect of the primary sector and the abandonment of our peoples. The proposals endorsed by the ministry of demographic challenge are painful. I will vote in favour of the thirty measures that are being developed in the contingency plan proposed by the People's Group, because they are emergency remedies to correct a disastrous situation for the countryside, livestock and fisheries, and to help all the people who, with their sacrificed and hard work, feed society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u273	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion has so many points that it is very difficult to take a unanimous and unique stand on it, but the first points concerning the change of orientation in the CAP, aimed at food security and the protection of national food sovereignty, are perfectly consumable. Point 6 to get the wolf out of LEPRE would have unanimous support in all the affected autonomous communities and of course, among them, Cantabria. I do not know whether the Government is aware that the measures that have the unanimous opposition of all those affected are doomed to failure, and sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease. There are also many measures that were already out of step in his motion and others that have been since the decree law passed yesterday, and in fact are the proposals made by the Galician councillor at the meeting that the cantabrian cornice councilors had and that can be shared. But, look, the revisions to the Green Pact, the paralysis of strategies From the farm to the table and biodiversity will never be accepted by Europe. It would be much more important or interesting, in any case, to try to slow them down. Another question. VAT for producers is already deductible, it makes no sense to reduce it this time, and in fishing there are very few rates that can be removed from fuels, because they are practically already exempt in almost all. Aid under the new temporary framework cannot exceed EUR 35,000, so it does not appear that it will cover costs. Finally, there are the exemptions to social security, there have been only moratoriums so far. What am I going to tell him! It is full of good intentions and many toasts to the sun. You will have to wait to govern in order to implement these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u275	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, more than twenty days ago I warned Minister Planas at his appearance in the Commission that the food dependence of Spain and the European Union on third countries such as Russia or Ukraine, currently at war, on products as basic as cereals would be fatal for our food supply, and could produce hunger in Europe. We have insisted on the defense of national food sovereignty since we arrived at Congress, and our insistence was answered from the beginning by all groups, including the People's Party, insulting us, calling us autarchic or anti-European. We have called for the urgent removal and immediate repeal of the 2030 Agenda and any international agreement or legislation that blames our producers for environmental problems while exempting the real culprits. [[Applauds]] On 9 March we asked the Minister to draw up a contingency plan and a new, less green and more agricultural common agricultural policy, which urgently encourages the production and strength of the agricultural sector, recognizing its priority and strategic character. Green demagogy or our children's bread, globalism or patriotism, posture or food security. [[Applauds]] Agricultural policy, both national and European Union policy, is inoperative. As soon as it leaves producers helpless in theoretical situations of overproduction, such as overnight, it is intended that all kinds of food should be produced as a matter of urgency. To top it off, the so-called crisis reserve is paid for by farmers. The agricultural sector cannot react as if it were trying to open or close a key. The costs are insurmountable. The farmers, who are ignored and caught closing their farms, cannot return to the business as if they were trying to open or close a trade in the Gran Via Madrid. Today, we are in this motion with dozens of measures that we have complemented with our amendments. We want to stress the apparent political turn of the party that is presenting it, which calls even for the revision of the European Green Pact, a party that has enthusiastically and without any kind of critical spirit the whole of the green architecture of the European Commission, very much in line with its European People's Political Group, which is chaired by the Commission, a party that drives the 2030 Agenda and renounces the productive capacity of our agriculture, as it continues to do today in Brussels. [[Applauds]] We agree with the vast majority of the concrete measures in your motion. It's never too late if the bliss is good. We welcome the common sense here in Spain, but we do not want it to happen as happened in the health crisis, where transporters, farmers, farmers and fishermen were the heroes of the first line, but as soon as the crisis has relaxed, they have become, by the progressive consensus, ultras and intransigent, simply because they cannot continue to work to lose money for the costs of production, energy and fuel caused by the policies of this government. [[applause]] They're ultras of your children's bread. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] We want real and sustained commitments over time, not patches; a real strategy in defense of profitable and productive agriculture, the only formula for sustainability and food sovereignty. We want the government to urge the European Commission to curb green demagogy and to take into account the negative warnings of the scientific report drawn up by the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission itself. We want to use trade as a complement and projection of our agricultural sector, but with the necessary trade safeguards to protect our national agricultural sector so that they do not replace us. [[Applauds]] We want a national hydrological plan that takes into account that water is a good thing for all Spaniards and that is fundamental to cohering the territory of the nation with irrigation, and that the European funds do not go away for chiringuitos or for irrigation of our agricultural competitors in North Africa. In short, apart from foreign agendas, we want to bet on our agenda...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u276	Mr. Chamorro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u277	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. ...which is only Spain and that's why we're here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u278	Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Before going into the matter, I would like to make a reference to the previous point, to something that Mr Coello of Portugal has said. Hunger and lice happened in Francoist prisons. There was hunger there - and a lot! - and lice. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] Well, the People's Party brings us a motion resulting from urgent questioning with a very long title, Mrs Marcos. You are making a global review of the economic and social situation of agriculture in the Spanish State based on the consequences of the COVID, the invasion of Ukraine and the mobilizations, that is, it is already a kind of continuum, and I share it in the sense that it draws a rather catastrophic picture. It's not just a situation in the first sector. It goes further, because the problems presented go beyond the agricultural, livestock and fishing sectors. Is there a connection between the crisis in the agricultural sector and everything else? Of course. Is the situation serious? Idem of Idem. Is the reported situation real? Yes, in most cases. Now, are the solutions proposed the most appropriate and necessary? Not always, or not all. We, precisely aware of this situation which has emerged, have asked the minister the following oral question: what is going to be done? Because the crisis in Ukraine generated a food crisis of all kinds throughout Europe, and the consequences have clearly been seen. You take advantage of that thesis and present this motion. But let's go through the parts. First question: Mrs Marcos, you cannot bring a motion of thirty points. No, because that is not a motion, that is a statement of principles, it is an electoral program or a letter of demands with which - with all affection - they shoot everything that moves. Of course, in the face of this thesis, an unbreakable adherence of all or nothing is required, which is impossible, because it is not normal for everything to be shared in the same way. And that happens in all motions, not just this one. Many times we have criticized it in this House, when it was very typical that the Socialist Party precisely brought motions with so many points. But there is one part, without a doubt, purely agrarian and there is another more global, as we said. If you want, let's look at it, but I agree quite well with Mr. Mazón's analysis. I share most of the criteria he has presented, because there are certainly certain aids which are the responsibility of the Government and which the Government must do. Some measures have already been taken. You got ahead of yourself, but some of you have already taken them. In other autonomous communities, in Euskadi, for example, today a plan for the clash over the war in Ukraine has been presented, in which all these issues have been collected. But there are a number of other issues. For example, you are starting from criteria on which the Spanish Government is not going to be able to decide, because the amendment of the CAP is going to be done by the European Union, if it has to be done. I mean, is it going to have to change? Are you going to have to channel it any other way? Do we know perfectly well whether this is a short-term issue or whether it is already going to become structural? Because, of course, if it is a short-term issue, as long as the situation lasts a little bit, we cannot make drastic changes to a thing such as the common agricultural policy and, of course, it is not up to the minister either. It will be the European Commission that values it. And, as has been said, it will be difficult for certain criteria that have been agreed and that are basic to change. Let us hope that certain flexibilities are compatible, because the situation is serious? Of course it's serious! But it will have to be reconciled. Therefore, it seems to us that there are measures that you propose that are not appropriate at this time, at other times, instead, we will see how the needs develop. Because agricultural and agricultural problems come along, even when you were ruling, and now, in a motion, you cannot solve this problem.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u280	Mr. Agirretxea...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u281	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u282	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u283	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating this motion as a result of urgent questioning of the situation in the primary sector, a situation that led hundreds of thousands of farmers, farmers and other rural representatives to go out on the streets on 20 March, but not only last 20 March, just before the pandemic was already mobilizing the whole sector. Both farmers and farmers, all these people thought when the pandemic came: what can we do for society, because they really depend on us? And in the middle of the pandemic they left everything, put their health at risk, put their businesses at risk on many occasions, went out and helped us keep the supermarkets full. And what do they find on the part of the government? Well, he's always late. In that mass demonstration he was, as it could not be otherwise, Citizens. We were there as public representatives, but also as citizens on foot, because to everyone, as the proponent of this initiative said, life is going on in this, really; it is literal, it is going to be able to fill our fridge and feed our families. Citizens are on the streets defending their proclamations, of course, but they have also been working in this House for months to ensure that the conditions of all field workers are the best possible and to prevent them from having to add months of sacrifices for a price escalation that does not stop. The agricultural sector deserves to be taken into account as a priority, it is strategic. You always have to keep it in mind, not only when a war breaks out, or not only when there is a timely price rise problem, or not only when there are elections nearby; you always have to keep an eye on them. It is true that the prices of fertilizers, electricity, diesel, feed or fertilizers are increasing, it is true that thousands of farms are now on the verge of disappearance and it is also true that the crisis of the war in Ukraine has aggravated everything, but we cannot look elsewhere. Farmers have had these problems for years and the solutions put on the table by the Government are totally inadequate. And why do I say this? Because when the food chain law was amended, a law that was soon left for what could have been for farmers, the government focused solely and exclusively on introducing the actual cost of production into contracts as something magical that would solve all the farmers' problems, and if they have gone out again it is because the problems have not been solved. Today I would also like to focus on a point which is included in this motion and which my group has been advocating for many months now that it should be implemented at once. I am talking about farmers being able to benefit from a more economical electricity contract, a double rate that will allow them to reduce the cost during those months that are not watered. It is a motion that we have brought here, to this plenary, as a result of an inquiry to Minister Planas and that was approved, and the sector has been waiting a long time for it to start. From here - tomorrow I'll tell the minister - he asked when it's going to start. Therefore, not only for this measure, but for many others appearing in this motion, we will vote in favour. In fact, we believe that the Government, with the royal decree that we hope will be adopted tomorrow, will be late again and put on a patch again. We had the opportunity with the food chain law, but they always have to go out on the street to get a little improvement, and it's not fair; it's not fair that this sector, which is the key sector of the entire food chain, has to be begging for improvements in its sector every day that happens. It's not fair. The same Government, which now takes its new package of measures to combat the rise in prices, ignores the real needs, and many of them are reflected in the motion we are debating today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, instead of fooling the Spaniards by saying that they have succeeded in the European Council, that we all know they are not real, instead of doing that and selling inefficient and, on many occasions, non-existent solutions, we encourage them to simply keep their word and allow farmers to have two electric powers to save on their consumption and billing that allows them to have a decent life, that at least they have enough benefits to have that dignified life, because they also deserve it. They deserve it because they helped us in the pandemic and now it is the Government that has to take immediate solutions to help this sector so important and so strategic for our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u284	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u285	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was telling you that, despite my years and over ten years in these Chambers, he continued to be a naive, and it is true, but one thing is that he is a naive and another thing is that in these ten years he has not learned anything. One thing I've learned is that when I see you coming down from your seats to your lordships, from any group, loaded with advertising posters to go up to this rostrum, whether to teach photographs, graphics or newspaper covers, I've learned that intervention is not going to be adorned by rigor. [[Applauds]] And here we are, posters and a motion with thirty points. Nothing more and nothing less. And if your lordships thought that with thirty points they would solve everything, they have gone wrong again, because those of the two hard eggs come more and add six more points, because thirty were few. [[Laughter and applause]] And now we're going to have a motion with thirty-six points. Otherwise, I'll live to see. Of course, in thirty-six points there will be one we consider to be reasonable or common sense, as someone claimed yesterday. But I only give you two thoughts and then comment on one point. The two thoughts are not for me to answer now, but for when they arrive home they review the thirty points and then tell me. With these thirty points we intend to solve problems in the primary sector. Have they all been generated in the last four years, or more than half already existed four years ago and we did nothing? Second, quantify. Yesterday the government passed a real decree in the primary sector and this morning was quantified by the president of the government with an application - which I think is relatively reasonable, because it is very segmented and very focused - of 430 million. But it's just that you guys at one point already cascade 5 billion, like the one who doesn't do anything. [[Laughter]] Have you quantified the cost of the thirty points? Because we'll have to see where we got them. They leave nothing: they lower VAT, they lower hydrocarbons, they lower the IRPF modules, they lower Social Security. Everything, they touch everything. And one comment, because I think they're going to do well for future interventions and future initiatives. Out of the thirty, point 5 of the motion - sometimes fixed with some points - claims that in the new cycle of hydrological planning the basin plans respect unimplemented investments and water reserves for unimplemented irrigation, some more than thirty years old. Farmers are all over Spain, there are also farmers in the Ebro Delta, and they will have to go and explain to farmers in the Ebro Delta why their farms are disappearing, why the Ebro Delta is disappearing, why there is no reasonable minimum flow rate. [[applause]] And you, in the new planning, do not make references to minimum flow, because the old planning, which is now going to overcome, of the Ebro basin plan was approved by a government in office at that time and without respecting the minimum ecological flow necessary for the delta to survive. That the delta can survive means that the Ebro Delta farmers can survive. They are also entitled - perhaps they still need a point 37 - to respect the environmental flows in river basin plans. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u287	Thank you very much, President. If you read the explanatory statement of this motion, the feeling is apocalyptic, and all the factors have really been conjured up to produce, as we often say, the perfect storm. With this I do not want to trivialize dramatism and even the situation. It is clear that the agricultural sector is going through a very complex situation and that it adds up and accumulates crisis over crisis, but let us be clear: the crisis affects some more than others and, as in all productive sectors, it is particularly serious about the most vulnerable. That's fundamental. I am sure that the demands put forward by the agricultural organizations, which call for short-term measures in this case but also structural measures, are very different from those put forward by hunters and protaurins. I'm sure there are differences. I'm even sure they differ from the interests of the gentlemen who parade on horseback at the rally. That is why I say that the crisis has a profound impact on the most vulnerable sectors. They all form the vision of the rural world in crisis, you will say. In their explanatory statement they consider an attack on the rural way of life - literally - the draft law on the protection and rights of animals, which endorses the demands of the hunting sector. I repeat: rural way of life. My interest is what it means to form rural life. Because for our group the rural society is also constituted by the services sector, the industrial sector... There are a lot more people, not just the agricultural sector; there are a lot more people. The rural environment is much more complex. I sincerely believe that the image you have about the rural world does not cease to be - forgive me for saying so - a caricature of another time that today no longer adapts to a reality, fortunately, much more complex and much more modern. Focusing on the agricultural and fisheries sector, which I understand is the aim of this motion, the demands are so diverse that we sincerely believe that it is urgent and necessary to put forward a comprehensive strategy to reform the agricultural sector in depth, a strategy that should not fall into a simple list of short-term measures to resolve current emergency situations. With this I do not want to underestimate the urgency that the sector is really demanding today and, therefore, we can often agree with many of those necessary measures to respond to the fuel crisis that has joined the crisis of the war in Ukraine. But I did want to insist that the crisis in the sector is basically a structural crisis, as has been said, and that, therefore, it has been dragging away for a long time. In that sense, when you were ruling, I don't remember that much progress was made in that regard. Of the many proposals you make, we could share some initiatives to increase income or production - because there are initiatives that I think are interesting - or even to reduce costs. On the other hand, there are some proposals which for us represent a clear involution and which are red lines. Food chain: you abstained from that law, even though you knew that it was a totally insufficient tool to deal with price regulation, and our group was already warning that without mechanisms for regulating the domain position - I repeat, the regulation of the domain position - it was very difficult to avoid an equitable distribution of production costs to all the different links that make up the chain. [[applause]] We have seen it in the dairy sector: today the small milk producer continues to sell low cost, which means that it has not managed anything at all. That is why we voted against, despite all the pressure we had behind us. I think it's important to say it here. [[Applauds]] In relation to the CAP, what model of the CAP? Does the CAP benefit the 20-M young people who were riding in the demonstration or the CAP that protects this most vulnerable agricultural sector? We can talk about a revision of the European Green Pact, but not about the paralysis of the Farm Strategy to the Bureau and the Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 that you are proposing. Indeed, we believe that reform in the agricultural sector goes through a much more sustainable production model, which prioritizes a proximity market and therefore guarantees food sovereignty in this regard. It is not contradictory; it is not contradictory. It is precisely sustainability that seeks food sovereignty and a proximity market. In the same line of sustainability, we cannot agree with the proposal for the extension of new irrigations and the policies of interconnection of basins or, more clearly, transfers between basins. Comrade Ferran Bel has commented: the problem is water scarcity, and it will continue to be a problem in the future. One of the main effects that climate change is causing in the Mediterranean area is a clear scenario of reduced water inputs and increased evapotranspiration caused by increased temperature. I'm on my way. See, if not, what is happening in the basins of Guadiana and Guadalquivir and the need to discuss precisely this very week, tomorrow, a decree law on drought, although much of the problem is due to the more than 1500 illegal wells that are drying Doñana and that precisely make up those new waters that you so much demand. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u288	Mr. Eritja, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u289	I'm on my way. It gives me the impression that we want to take advantage of the dual fuel crisis and the war in Ukraine to reactivate reactionary positions with the aim of paralysing policies aimed at a more sustainable productive model than the current one, in which food sovereignty is precisely the basic pillar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u291	Thank you very much, President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we have already told you more often in this rostrum: we are many - not only the Reds, but also the Democrats - who are already very tired in this House of them coming here to lie and insult. I will tell you that it is absolutely shameful that you come here to repeat, one after another, the same lies that Franco said. No joke with the lice. The lice in this country were neither red nor democrats nor poor; they were the result of the war your political predecessors brought to this country, Mr Coello; that is, that they stop telling lies and stop insulting in this House. [[Applauds]] The People's Party is bringing us a motion for an inquiry into the situation in the primary sector. At the very least, it must be said that this motion goes wrong, first of all, and goes wrong because most of the proposals, precisely, result and insist on a model that is at the root of the structural problems of our primary sector. They are also late because, of course, this government is already legislating and is taking out specific packages of measures to solve the short-term problems caused by the crisis in Ukraine that is suffering from our primary sector. Thirdly, they come - to put it this way - at a crawl, because it is the People's Party of Minister García Tejerina, the minister of fertilizer lobbies, the minister who - by the way, now that we are in the worst energy crisis - is sitting in Iberdrola, who comes here to talk about how to save the primary sector. That said, and whatever it is, they bring us a truffle motion of half-truths, of fake news, in which we try to collate, with a sort of disaster drawer - already said here today, more than thirty points - proposals deeply regressive. Firstly, regressive proposals, because they try to dismantle policies to combat climate change, which is a total consensus today; and secondly, regressive proposals because they can only seek to overthrow the resilience and sustainability of our primary sector. But look, just so it is explained that at this time, where there is a total consensus in the European Union on the need for a transition, to abandon agribusiness, to go to new models of agricultural and livestock production, you propose to end the European Green Pact, to end the Farm Strategy at the table, to end the Biodiversity Strategy 2030, and you would just miss joining VOX and Trump and saying that we leave the FAO and also abandon the UN Panel on Climate Change. In short - and we are going to the issue of the 20th and mobilizations - as much as the right and the extreme right try to infiltrate and have tried to capitalize on those mobilizations, in Unity We can say very clearly that we are next, that we listen, that we understand the just demands of the primary sector. And we also say that there were organisations like COAG, such as UPA, with which we and we usually work with those that, by the way, we take forward, from the hands of those organisations and other parliamentary groups, the food chain law, to which you opposed. And that being said, just as we are clear that the mobilizations are not against the government - and this is important - it must be said that the mobilizations are against a model, which is precisely the model of agribusiness, of farmers in the hall, of young ladies and gentlemen who you, gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, have been protecting in this country for many years. In Unity We are very clear that we have been warning for a long time that the fundamental problem is to put the food chain in the hands of multinationals, agribusiness and speculative investment funds. We have also been saying for a long time that we must urgently address the weaknesses of our agri-food production model, protecting small and medium-sized farms, guaranteeing supply and thus guaranteeing food sovereignty. But it also draws attention - as you have also said - to how you propose an extraordinary 5 billion fund and raise the 65 million reserve fund of the crisis by 200%, while, systematically, you are telling us that we must lower, lower and lower taxes on all sides. Where do you want to get these resources for our primary sector, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? I am now finishing, ladies and gentlemen, with another question that happened today. Today we had to systematically listen to Mr Abascal talk about climate fanaticism. I think it is necessary to say that fanaticism, superchery and lies are, precisely, against all scientific evidence, to deny climate change. So, ladies and gentlemen of the right, of the People's Party and of VOX, say, once and for all, what interests they defend and, above all, not tell us thirty points, but what model they defend for the primary sector of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Sancho Íñiguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u293	Thank you, Madam President. Very good evening, ladies and gentlemen; good evening. In the last two years we have faced the greatest challenges of the twenty-first century, I would say that since democracy began. When we left a pandemic, with a fortress that even the most optimistic could not imagine - farmers did support us, you did not - a barbarity like the war in Ukraine has convulsed Europe and the world. The PP is presenting us with a motion and, Mrs Marcos, I think I would sum it up soon: the government of Pedro Sánchez leaves no one behind. The answer is easy. A president like Pedro Sánchez, with leadership, proposing and achieving commitments to improve the lives of the Spaniards; a president who, as it is said on my land, is the first to remain: to greater difficulty, greater strength. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that, in your internal affairs, you think that the 349 Members we represent all the Spaniards should say: thank you, President; thank you, Pedro. [[Applauds]] Thank you, because Spain and Portugal will be able to take their own energy measures: the Iberian exception. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, this would be enough to answer your motion. Spain is in the best hands, but I want, ladies and gentlemen, to put them in front of the mirror. I would like them to react; I wish they would start to be a constructive, state-owned opposition. [[Mrs. Marcos Ortega shows a photograph of the 20-M demonstration]] They help the Government, because that, in exceptional situations, is to help the Spaniards; they abandon sectarianism. We are faced with a drunken Gloria, a drunken Filomena and Brexit, to overcome with note the impact that it assumed - I don't want to remember what you said here -; we came up with the pandemic, from which we came out with a fortress that even the most optimistic would have imagined; we had the impact of the volcano of La Palma and now, ladies and gentlemen, the convulsion of the invasion of Ukraine or of the war of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Government has put in place policies and continues to put in place many measures to alleviate these consequences. I would like to list a few: ERTE, support for self-employed people, minimum living income, labour reform, etc.; a very good CAP budget - I repeat, a very good CAP budget -, 44 million more than at the previous stage, despite the Brexit. [[Applauds]] And remember what you said in this rostrum. A budget for agricultural insurance of 45 million more than the best budget of the PP; for irrigation, 245.3 million more; for the RDP, 26.5 million more; for the ICA, 3 million more; for young farmers, 54.4 million, Mrs Marcos. The PP, 0 euros, this is what you believe in the generational relief, that's what you had in your budget. [[Applauds]] Our policy will have to be aimed at not prioritizing inaction, we have to finish subsidizing inactivity. ICO, MAPA and SAECA lines have been launched. The request for ICO lines of endorsement is extended until 30 June 2022; 430 million, as one colleague said, for agriculture, livestock and fisheries; plan of response to the war; have the funds of recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, all this without your help, I repeat, without your help. What else has to happen to help Spain? Our war response plan is EUR 16 billion; support for small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs and the self-employed with ICOs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I'm mayor of a town in Teruel. My children have gone to rural school. I am a farmer and a farmer, a shepherd's son, a shepherd's grandson - my maternal grandfather, a shepherd of food -. Ladies and gentlemen of PP and VOX, I am ashamed when I see you in the demonstrations with which you are riding, I am ashamed. [[Applauds]] Don't use us, don't harm the government. Ever since I joined agriculture, trade unionism, co-operativeism, politics, the Courts of Aragon, and here, I have never seen a right-wing proposal that favors farmers who work from sun to sun to win the chastisement, neither the PP nor the VOX. I finish, ladies and gentlemen, with the pain I had this afternoon when I heard a phrase: year of reds, year of lice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u294	Mr. Sancho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u295	Excuse me, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel shame, sorrow and pain to hear these sentences here. Millions of Spaniards fought for democracy, worked to regain equality and freedom, and, ladies and gentlemen, today a pastor's son may be speaking here, defending him. For all of them, I demand respect for Parliament. Whoever doesn't believe in democracy has no place here. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u296	Thank you, Mr. Sancho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Marcos, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u297	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-30-CD220330.u298	The vote will take place on their terms. Thank you very much. Good night. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and fifteen minutes of the night.
