ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree Law 3/2022 of 1 March, on measures to improve the sustainability of the transport of goods by road and the operation of the logistics chain, and transposing Directive 2020/1057 of 15 July 2020 laying down specific rules with regard to Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/67/EU, on the movement of drivers in the field of road transport and on exceptional measures for the revision of prices in public works contracts. To present the royal decree law, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u2	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting to this House, for validation, the Royal Decree Law 3/2022 on measures to improve the sustainability of the transport of goods by road and the operation of the logistics chain, and on exceptional measures for the revision of prices in public works contracts, following its adoption by the Council of Ministers on 1 March. This Royal Decree also transposes Directive 2020/1057 of 15 July 2020 laying down specific rules with regard to Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/76 for the movement of drivers in the road transport sector. The path that has led us to the text that we are discussing today has been long and is the result of intense work and dialogue with the respective sectors until consensus is reached. On the one hand, in the case of transport measures, we are fully aware of the importance of road freight transport in our country and in our economy. It serves as an example to remember that it has been 10 years with a 95 % share in the modal distribution within inland transport, that the Spanish heavy-duty fleet is the third in Europe by volume of goods or that they almost absorb 70 % of the tonnes transported abroad. All of this is undoubtedly thanks to its great flexibility and capillaryness, qualities that have been basic, for example, during the health crisis to allow the supply not to be interrupted and that remains today in the complicated environment in which we move. In this sense, we have already put in place the known as a driving plan, the Plan of Impulse to the Sustainability of the Transport of Goods by Road, strategic framework of the sector for the coming years. And to respond to the demands of the sector, the result of dialogue and consensus, last December 17, we reached an important agreement with the freight department of the National Road Transport Committee. The aim of this is to balance existing asymmetries between the actors in the road haulage sector, to improve the position and competitiveness of this sector and to ensure adequate working conditions and social protection for drivers. This is an agreement of extraordinary relevance in a sector that is essential for the economic activity of our country, as we have already seen, an agreement that includes a total of twenty measures, both regulatory - those contained in this royal decree law - and non-regulatory, which reflect the commitment of the ministry to the sector. On the other hand, and in the case of price review measures, I must say that, linked to the pandemic, there have been two effects related to raw materials: a price decrease in 2020 and a significant price rise in 2021, in response to an economic recovery. This price increase was having an undesirable effect on the development of the public works contracts in operation, which were also unpredictable at the time of the tender by the contractors of the works and which exceeded the concept of risk and venture that the contractor had to bear in any public contract. If we do not act, these negative effects would end up leading to possible paralysis of our public works or even to the termination of contracts, with circumstances that are significantly detrimental, mainly for the public interest and also for the economic operators of the civil works sector, an aspect that, if it is already to be the subject of attention by the public administrations, is even more important if we want to be able to comply with the execution of the funds that we are receiving from Europe until 2026 through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, of which Spain was one of the most benefited, as you already know. In order to get an idea of the magnitude, in the chapter on sustainable mobility - components 1 and 6 of the plan - we are talking about a direct investment by the ministry and its entities of some €76 billion extra to add to the annual funding collected by our general state budgets. For this reason, in the last quarter of last year we started working together from the Government to develop a procedure for the review of extraordinary prices. The usefulness of both measures, i.e. those relating to transport and public works contracts, has been supported by the situation in Ukraine, which has further increased its need by making them an essential tool. Although the war began a few days ago, in the globalized world in which we live its consequences, we are already very aware of them. In fact, they affect the day-to-day lives of citizens, as well as businesses, both in the case of transport and public works, especially because of the increase in the price of energy and fuels and the added difficulty in supplying raw materials. This war certainly directly affects our country, so from the government we are working on four axes, as was discussed at last Sunday's Conference of Presidents, which gave rise to the agreements of the island of La Palma: support for the position before the next European Council for measures to achieve a reduction in energy prices; the impetus for the implementation of European funds by all public administrations; coordinated management of the reception of Ukrainian refugees; and the implementation of the plan to respond to the consequences of the Ukraine war in Spain. I assure you that, as we have been doing to cushion some of the consequences of the pandemic, the Government will once again rise to the level of circumstances. In the ministry we are aware that the transport sector, like many others, is being greatly affected by the current scenario of uncertainty arising from the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and in particular from the increase in the price of fuel derived from it. In fact, yesterday Wednesday I met with the freight department of the national committee, a meeting at which we valued, in addition to making a review of the current situation, the acceleration of the implementation of the non-legislative measures of the agreement of 17 December 2021. We share the view that a situation in which carriers are obliged to work below their costs is not sustainable and that the application of the principles set out in the food chain law to the freight sector is speeded up, in addition to the commitment to publish weekly by the Ministry - rather than monthly - the variation in the price of diesel, which is used as a reference for the index of variation of the average price of diesel to be used in the price revision formula. And all this without prejudice to the fact that the national plan to respond to the impact of the war, which is scheduled for adoption on 29 March, will include specific measures to reduce the price of fuels on the line that are already taking place in other countries in our environment, as well as all those that can be agreed during the process of participation that will be opened with the committee. Focusing already on the concrete measures included in this royal decree law, in the case of transport measures it has been necessary to amend five laws, which also shows the profound structural revision that we address in this text. Firstly, it contains a general ban on the driver's participation in the loading and unloading of goods and supports, and it also deals with waiting times in these operations, fundamental issues in order to improve the working conditions of our professional drivers, which will undoubtedly help to solve the shortage of drivers, a problem which we face both in Spain and in the rest of Europe. In this regard, the completion of driving and rest times is also reinforced, in line with the European Union's mobility package, which Spain has always advocated. An important axis of this royal decree is the assurance of a framework of fair competition in the sector, in which it highlights the fight against the so-called mailbox companies, for what is also transposed in this royal decree law the Directive for the Movement of Drivers in the Sector of the Transport by Road, supplemented with other measures such as the strengthening of the inspection of the land transport. A particularly important element is included in the package today, such as the mandatory inclusion in the contracts of the revision of the transport price by variation of the fuel price from the time of the procurement to the actual execution of the transport. Finally, other measures related to the improvement of the efficiency of the sector and its environmental sustainability are also included, such as the nine-month modification of the mass and dimensions regulations for certain types of vehicles. They are a set of measures that will mark the future of this sector, as we can see. For this reason, during the entire process of drawing up the Royal Decree-Law, consensus has been sought with the different actors of the sector, within the master lines outlined in the agreement reached last December with the department of goods of the National Committee of Transport by Road. Consensus has been sought and we continue to work along the same lines, especially with the new situation resulting from the crisis and the war in Ukraine. I do not want to forget that the agreement with the committee also included, as I said, other non-regulatory measures in which progress is already being made, such as the subsidy for the construction of safe car parks for trucks, with a total investment of at least EUR 20 million, and the design of a plan for the progressive conversion of winter car parks to safe car parks or the setting up of a working group to make a proposal on training needs and talent attraction to the road transport sector. In short, we have adopted a package of measures that will help to give strength to a sector that is key to our country's economy and to improve the working conditions of professional drivers. As can be seen, continuous work, communication with industry and commitment to compliance with European legislation have enabled progress to be made in modernising the legislation of a sector that needs to have robust pillars to enable it to be sustainable, fair and efficient, without the remaining activities being affected. I would like logically to take this opportunity to refer to the mobilizations organized from the so-called platform 'for the defence of the sector of the transport of goods by national and international road'. First of all, I would like to stress that the Ministry's dialogue with the transport sector is articulated through the national committee, constituted by representatives of the professional transport associations according to a guarantee process based on the accredited representativeness of these associations. In short, the committee is the voice of the transport sector and in which the sector is represented, including from small self-employed to large, medium-sized and small enterprises, with representations obtained with regulated and transparent processes and, moreover, without forgetting that its composition has been renewed this same year without the above-mentioned platform having obtained any representation. In this sense, from the ministry we continue to maintain contacts with the national committee, which is our interlocutor in the sector, as I have already said, and which, by the way, I have to say, has been repeatedly opposed to these mobilizations. As I have indicated, yesterday Wednesday we held a meeting at which I moved the commitment to accelerate the measures included in the December agreement, as well as to analyse the new measures that could be included in the national response plan. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, since the committee itself has conveyed to us its concern about some violent situations that are taking place and, of course, have no place in our society. We respect, as it cannot be otherwise, transporters who decide to stop as long as they do so without violence, but we must also respect and, above all, protect those who decide to work, as well as the provision of essential services. [[Applauds]] The second set of measures of the Royal Decree, as advanced, concerns the regulation of the procedure for the exceptional review of prices in public works contracts. It has been sought from the beginning to be a simple, well-known and therefore agile procedure. The materials that give rise to this exceptional procedure are finally four: steel, bituminous materials, aluminium and copper. Its selection is due to the fact that materials had the greatest price increase in 2021, over 20 %. On the other hand, we have had to put aside the cost of energy, which I will mention briefly at the end of this intervention. Firstly, I will comment on how this recognition of the exceptional price review has been carried out and when it is applied. As regards the type of contracts, the procedure applies to public works contracts, but it also applies to certain private works contracts covered by the Public Sector Contracts Act. Contracts must be formalized prior to the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law, i.e. before 2 March of this year. For the contracting entity, it applies to entities forming part of the State public sector. It leaves open the possibility of welcoming the Autonomous Communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, if they so wish. On the recognition of the impact of the price increase, the work certification for the 2021 financial year is compared with the certification that would have resulted from the price review with the four materials mentioned in the same year 2021. If the difference is greater than 5 %, then the procedure is applicable if desired and requested by the contractor. If the procedure is applicable, the calculation of the amount of this exceptional price review is simple, using the formula for price review in the contract or the formula for price review in its default by deleting the term for energy. It shall apply irrespective of whether two years of the contract has elapsed or 20 % of the contract has not been certified, which are the classic terms of the contracts in order to be able to apply the price revisions. The date to be considered as an initial temporary reference for price indices shall be the date of formalisation of the contract, except before 1 January 2021, in which case it shall be taken as a reference on 31 December 2020. The price benchmarks are the monthly official price indices of the basic components published regularly by the National Statistical Institute and, to limit the economic impact of this exceptional measure, we rate the increase per contract at 20% of its award price. As far as the procedure is concerned, one is similar to the usual price review. The only condition imposed on the contractor is that before applying for this exceptional price review, he shall give up any legal action he has taken in that contract as a result of the increased costs of the materials. This extraordinary procedure involves a great deal of economic effort for the Government, since, according to the estimates we have carried out, it will amount to more than EUR 400 million of additional expenditure through the main contracting entities of the ministry such as, for example, ADIF or the Directorate-General for Roads, but we are sure that this measure will save a significant number of contracts which, if suspended or cancelled, have significantly damaged the public interest underlying any public works contract. In the same vein, I would like to take advantage of the resolution signed at the end of last year by the Ministry's Secretariat of State to recover from the specifications of the new works contracts that are being proposed this year and subsequent to the usual price revision formula, leaving the 2013 resolution on their impropriety without effect. As I said, I want to make a brief mention of energy too. This component is not taken into account in the exceptional price review because, at the same time as this procedure was developed, the Government has put in place provisions with a significant cost to cushion the impact of the rise in energy on public sector contracts. In this way, if a new revision of the energy component had been included in public procurement, an unjustified double revision of this component would be involved. In the same vein, they know that the President of the Government has started a round of trips to defend Spain's position by proposing measures to decouple electricity prices from those of gas, to tap energy prices, to make centralized purchases in wholesale markets, to accelerate as much as possible the strategy of renewables and to encourage gas interconnections in Spain to give security and autonomy to the whole of the European Union. I think we all agree that we must take far-reaching measures, going to the root of the problem. Finally, I would like to reiterate that in the ministry we are aware that the world has changed a lot in recent weeks as a result of the conflict in Ukraine, but I would like to send a message of tranquillity to society and the sector, with whom we are meeting today. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. This ministry has a commitment to recovery. We have a commitment to the future and we have a commitment to citizens, and we are doing so. Therefore, having set out the situation and ratified the reasons for necessity and urgency required by the Constitution, I ask this House to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca is the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. I will vote in favour of the validation of this Royal Decree-Law transposing Community directives which affect, inter alia, measures for the movement of drivers in the road transport sector. In relation to this and other crucial areas in the socio-economic activity of Spain, the time has been wasted and the calls for attention with which we have been alerting in this rostrum on which we were coming as a result of the erroneous budgetary forecasts for the financial year 2022 have been disregarded. After informing the Council of Ministers of its annual draft public accounts, different and qualified public bodies and solvent analysts have already warned the great inconsistency of some figures, which do not correspond to the latent economic involution. However, you, camouflaged behind the false mantras of the just transition of Ribera and the robust economy of Calviño, no case. They have been labeled as anti-patriots to which we have tabled amendments of all kinds, although now inflation, energy, fuel shortages, supplies and so on, which were already climbing prices and record figures, are suffocating families, businesses, industries and an endless number of victims. Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, speaking of road transport, this week many truckers have stopped, but they are not and will not be the exception. Mobilisations of farmers, farmers and fishermen have already been announced, which, among other sectors, have also been producing at a loss for months and do not expect them to work under such conditions because of their total ruin. Among the applause of your socialist colleagues for this week's serious and shocking transport stoppage, you have just said that the government will act forcefully in the face of violent pickets. Indeed, it is appropriate to intervene and avoid coercion always, that is, even when perpetrated by the unions Workers' Commissions and UGT, with which you form a lobby and undertake labor reforms against workers and desert territories such as the Asturian mining basins, among other trophies. Ladies and gentlemen, the Executive could have applied in this legislature with identical force in the State Official Gazette to anticipate the facts and correct the record invoices that the Spanish are paying for gasoline, gas oil or fruit, vegetables, bread, milk, fish and other essential products. It is worth remembering that, after the general elections of 2019, in the agreement of progressive coalition between PSOE and Unidad Podemos, Sánchez and Iglesias Signed on behalf of their organizations the price drop that is shooting today, tearing society and the productive fabric and impoverishing the whole of Spain. Are mobilizations and unemployment really surprising to you? So hold on, they come curved. A few months ago, in Congress, different measures raised by the opposition were rejected that could have alleviated the perverse effects of the pandemic crises, now exacerbated by the aftermath of the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops. But no, the parliamentary left has refused to implement amendments to review public sector prices and compensatory measures so that the costs of rising raw materials costs are compensated by the Administration. Now come the haste and the distress. In addition to bad, we are late and, from what we have just heard, as if nothing is happening here in Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u6	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this speech I will focus only on the part relating to the revision of the prices of public works contracts because, although the minister is very diplomatic, it must be said that many Spaniards do not know - perhaps some of their lords - that in Spain there are a lot of works stopped, a lot of works started and stopped, a lot of works awarded and stopped. I've personally checked it out in some that affect Cantabria, and there are many contests that are becoming deserts today. The ministry has known for a long time that we are suffering and has tried to put a solution; a solution that, as I am going to say now, is not a solution. And in this case, I do not want to blame the Ministry of Transport, because here we have to point out to the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the Public Sector Contracts Act and which, moreover, has been so scarring when it comes to setting the thresholds to enter this extraordinary review that many companies will not enter. I have checked it with concrete examples. They say that they have the agreement of the big companies, but the reality is that it is not going to be so and the reality is that many small and in many other contracts of other autonomous communities and municipalities this is not going to solve anything, because it also does not convince us what the minister has said that they remove the energy factor from the formula of price review. That is nonsense because, apart from what is notorious, the rise in electricity, we all know that it affects the rest of the components, and that will prevent us from entering the 5% famous threshold that they want to do the equivalent of risk and venture, which I believe will rather be ruin and venture of the companies. I could give a lot of examples of how this formula has been calculated because, above all, when calculating that 5%, not even the fixed factor, which reaches almost 40%, in many formulas does not intervene, eliminates other components, and with those four we reduce ourselves to that by 24% they have to draw more than 5% of the total. And, of course, energy is not compensated by that if it does not enter the base. Look, it is better to spend 10% more on work and do 10% more work than not doing anything because here, in this case, what is very clear is that we have a risk not only to the economy, but to the European funds, which will not be able to be fulfilled in time. I hope that the European Union, too, with the aggravation of the war in Ukraine, will be able to extend the deadlines; otherwise, we will go very badly. Minister, listen to me. We will validate this decree law. But tell the Minister of Finance to prepare another law decree immediately. It is not enough for us to process this decree through the urgency procedure, because we already know what is happening when we validate a decree law here and then we process it through the urgency procedure, which is not urgent and stays there. This government has a lot of experience in making decrees because it makes them churros. Then please tell him to prepare another immediately when he sees the failure of these formulas throughout Spain. It won't cost them much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u8	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to on. As stated in the title of this royal decree law, it aims to adopt various measures to improve the sustainability of the transport of goods by road and its logistics chain, in addition to others aimed at the transposition of a Community directive, 2020/1057, whose deadline for transposition ends on 22 February. It is also accompanied by a number of complementary measures to which I will refer later. But as regards the substantive content of the royal decree law begins, first of all, in its first title, with certain measures aimed at reversing the situation of penosity of transport drivers when, in addition to the functions proper to their activity, they are obliged to undertake loading and unloading operations, so the norm introduces a limitation consisting in preventing the active participation of drivers in such loading and unloading operations. In addition, another amendment to Act No. 16/1987 is attached to this measure to update the regime of infringements and sanctions with a view to implementing that measure. On the other hand, another amendment to the Land Freight Transport Contract Act is specified, in which, in the opposite direction, and in order to balance the relationship of loading and unloading operations, the shipper or consignee is required to take charge of the cargo and unloading operations. Secondly, the Royal Decree-Law is aimed at making it possible to review transport prices in the light of the variation in fuel prices, which initially sets in that famous ceiling 5% to which has already been referred in other interventions. The truth is that, if it is not for the time when this measure has taken place, it may well seem like a joke about destination, although it will have to be seen how it is implemented, how this clause will have to be based on the impact that the fuel item has on the cost structure of freight vehicles, it may have some substantial effect and not become a mere rhetorical allusion that will play little part in the area of price review. We will be attentive because we believe that, given the dates and events that are taking place, this one will not have too much travel. It is also aimed at transposing the European Directive, which aims to avoid unfair competition between Community transport undertakings as a result of the use of these display undertakings or mailbox undertakings which benefit from different fiscal and social conditions and involve a deferred exploitation of workers and unfair competition between those undertakings. For its part, Title II has been aimed at revising public sector contracts and, in the same way as Mr Mazón has just done, it has come to say that, without prejudice to the exclusion of the price of energy and, moreover, the inclusion, as the Minister has explained, of steel, aluminium and copper, in addition to bituminous materials, the fact is that the impact of energy on these costs of these raw materials, which are going to have an effect on public sector contracts, is going to have a greater impact than the expected impact of the 5% limit, which, for the time being, calls into question the effectiveness of these measures, although we also believe that their results should be expected. In its additional, transitional and final provisions, this Royal Decree-Law incorporates different measures, the establishment of a code of good commercial practice in the procurement of goods, the declaration as an exceptional event of public interest for tax purposes of the Global Mobility Coll, GMC, the tax regime applicable at the end of UEFA, another on procedures for the supply of COVID-19 drugs where they are of an exceptional nature, the amendments to the General Social Security Act in Articles 277 and 280, and another on the level of assistance protection for unemployment of permanent workers. Another is the amendment of the vehicle regulations to facilitate the increase in the mass and dimensions of vehicles which has been unnoticed, but which is of increasing importance in the context of transport; the timely amendment of the consolidated text of the Traffic and Road Safety Act; and, finally, the coverage of compensation for participants in international peace and security operations. In short, it is one more of the many initiatives to which this Government has accustomed us which, under the mantra of urgency and peremptoryness before with the disguise of COVID and now with the disguise of the transposition of directives, places us before debates that, it is true, we believe that for the most part they are urgent and, therefore, they justify the measure of the royal decree law, although they do not cease to be worthy of a severe criticism of the continuity, the proliferation of this mechanism, since its timely and concerned treatment, asystmatic I would say, prevent a serious debate on the measures taken in consideration and, therefore, of the debate on the substantive issues underlying it. Of course, we will vote in favour, but let us hope that the Government will correct this way of using the legislative initiative which is not too much in line with the needs of legal certainty in the field of the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, minister. Today comes to validation a real decree law that, on the one hand, the liberals believe appropriate but that also generates doubts, so we will support that it is processed as an urgent bill in order, precisely, to be able to solve them. Our support for this legal rule has exactly the same pattern of action that we had at the time with labor reform. It is a rule that seems good to us, but we understand that it is late and, moreover, it is not the whole rule that the Spaniards need today. This decree is the result of an agreement between the Government and the transport sector. With labour reform it was an agreement between social actors, between employers and workers, and it was a good agreement because it came from the consensus between them and the Government reflected it in a norm. Therefore, in this case we also support it, because the Government, as in labour reform, had put little or no hand in it. The agreement in this decree is between the Government and the road transport sector, a sector that we consider essential for the Spanish economy, but we are talking - and we must remember this - of an agreement that meets historical demands, of many years already: waiting times, participation in loading and unloading operations, parking areas, insurance, price of professional diesel. These are also claims that this government took on only in December, in the face of the threat of an unemployment just before Christmas; claims, it should be remembered, that the sector itself had parked in 2020 in the face of a pandemic situation in Spain. Therefore, we are talking about a sector that responded professionally to this situation of paralysis of social and economic life, maintaining throughout the national territory the activities of transport and distribution. That is why we believe that these measures should be welcomed, but at the same time we reproach the Government for coming, once again, late. We will support these measures, but it is obliged for all to claim more from this Government, because the problem is not solved only by validating the decree. The Government is also the first to know. We have to demand more, as Citizens did on 15 December in this very rostrum on the occasion of a motion following an inquiry by another political group. But let's talk about the doubts that this regulation generates for us. The first question is whether this is all that the Government is going to do, because if this is all it is not only that they are late, but that they are not. They do not come because in December, when the government sat down to agree on those measures, fuel had already risen by an average of 35% throughout 2021 and now, at this time, just over three months later, fuels already accumulate an increase of 14% and this is absolutely inconsumable for the sector. He's already more on account of leaving the truck parked in the garage than going out to work on the road, and they're also telling him on the street. This is the problem that remains despite the government's validation, the price of automotive fuel, and it is not only a problem of the professional transport sector; it is the problem of the rest of the industries; it is the problem of companies; it is the problem of families throughout Spain. This problem is true that it has worsened with the war in Ukraine, but it is also true that it already came from a situation of time ago in which the Government has not known or wanted to face what was happening, which has been ignoring and ignoring the proposals that others have made to them and with a problem that is already here today with all its cruelty. This decree is the perfect example that this Government avoids taking action in time and that it only takes it by rectifying it and, unfortunately, neither the Spanish nor the transporters can have that time that the Government is wasting. This week, in an interview in the media and right here in this plenary, President Sánchez said that what the government is going to do will be known after the European Council on 24 and 25 March, with a national plan to respond to the consequences of the war that will bring us on 29 March. This is two weeks from now, and the question is whether the government really believes that the Spanish and Spanish carriers can wait two more weeks. This government is late; it is late to put in place immediate measures to solve the problems of the pockets of families, workers and self-employed, as other European countries have done, and it has also been recognised here by the minister herself. But it is that they continue to ask for patience and consensus from political groups and patience is over, because patience does not pay bills. And if you want to appeal to consensus, be free from those in your Government who hinder you and others who harm us. They go to Europe where liberals, social democrats and conservatives have come to pacts, because we liberals here have done our duty. Yesterday, in fact, we went to the Government meeting with proposals to ease the pockets of families and, in particular, with the measure of reducing fuel taxes for the transport sector. Regardless of that, there are other more technical and legal doubts raised by this decree, especially in its regulation of the price review procedure in public works contracts of the General Administration of the State in the face of excessive increases in costs in raw materials. We understand that this is a necessary measure to which we also encourage to join the autonomous communities, but it is also a necessary rule that comes late. It should be remembered that Galicia and Extremadura already regulated this issue in December in their respective autonomous areas with final provisions, either in their budget laws for 2022 or in their legal rules accompanying them. And this is where we have our doubts when it comes to the fact that these articles have the basic character, because we understand that they are basic, obviously, because there has to be a norm of further development on the part of the autonomous communities and, curiously enough, in two autonomous communities it has been prior to the very basic norm that the Government draws out. But we have doubts, for example, about Article 6 of Title II of the Decree when it speaks of the possibility of extending, if they so agree, these measures to the Autonomous Communities, because Article 6 has forgotten the local authorities, the municipalities, the provincial parliaments, other entities which are very intense subjects of public procurement and which are indeed reflected in the preamble of the Decree when they say that their implementation can reach the scope of the autonomous communities and the local entities existing in their territory by the individual decision of the competent body of each autonomous community. But curiously, the local authorities or entities do not appear mentioned in article 6 and we believe that it should be clarified what that individual act of that body competent for the local entities refers to. Finally, we also miss that in the seventh additional provision the exemption from the Public Sector Contracts Act during this year 2022 to agreements on the supply of pharmaceutical products when there is a medical need not covered in the fight against COVID is made without safeguarding the part of that rule that guarantees precisely the criteria of active advertising, transparency and, above all, to make known what types of contracts will be made and which will now be called agreements. For these reasons we will support the Royal Decree-Law and also its processing as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u11	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u12	Thank you very much, President. I have already told you, Minister, that we are going to vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree law and, in turn, we also call for the processing of the bill for the reasons I am going to explain to you. Firstly, I too would like to thank the Ministry and the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the sensitivity with our parliamentary group and with this Member in explaining how the agreement with the National Road Transport Committee was being legislatively transferred in December. There were issues of concern to us; we have seen how they have also been sensitive to the demands and approaches of a part of the sector. All claims and improvements must be made without prejudice to economic activity in general terms, as has been reflected in the modification of the thirteenth additional provision of the LOT, which I believe has been exemplary. There are some issues that can be improved, but, in any case, I would like to record our thanks. In relation to the topic of transport, I also comment that you know that you have on the table other hot potatoes. I was talking these days with some associations of road passenger transport, who explained to me what they asked for, and asked us: Man, if in the transport of goods by road there is a possibility of changing the prices of contracts taking into account the evolution of fuel, in the transport of road passengers we should implement a similar solution. Although the business structure is not the same, there are also many small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector that are questioned about its viability if this situation cannot be solved, especially when, in many cases, the contracting party, apart from the carrier, is the public administration itself. Let us hope that this can also be solved in the near future. With regard to the amendment of the Public Sector Contracts Act, this exceptional price review also seems reasonable to us. It seemed reasonable to us when it was announced and remembered. It is true that you passed this royal decree law five days after Russia invaded Ukraine, and the scenario has changed. We understand that there was then no room for manoeuvre or rectification, but we do understand that this is a different situation. There will have to be a reflection on the Public Sector Contracts Act in general, and the failure to review prices in the light of the evolution of some products, not only energy products, which is obvious, but also other products, which will cause that, if we do not change this initial position - as I predicted, I think rightly, Mr Mazón - we will still have many public works standing or some that will be deserted in his bid. Therefore, we do believe that it should be dealt with as a bill and done so urgently, but if the Government takes additional measures by means of another royal decree law in this area, I would say that it will certainly be able to count on our support. Finally, Minister, it will not be your responsibility, because here they come from other ministries and they are putting issues in the royal decree law that makes it not omnibus, but rather popurized, because they include the tax regime of Global Mobility, the tax regime of the UEFA Champions League 2022, or amendments to the Drug Law. I therefore urge you not to continue to do this legislative procedure which I believe distorts and harms not only validations, but also possible processings as a draft law. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I also have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u14	Thank you, President. It is a fact that everyone knows that there are fewer and fewer carriers because cabin life is very hard. Road transport is very cheap and, moreover, reliable, as the carriers complain. No one trusts production, but the transporter does, and pays at the moment gasoline, wheels, workshop, meals, travel expenses, insurance, tolls... Instead, it charges after sixty or eighty days, at best. While some talk about family conciliation, transporters, in many cases, are for weeks, but months, without seeing their family, combining paths not to go empty, crossing the continent and getting the numbers out. Above all, they have to deal with the problem of the low-emission areas of the big cities, which will leave them without being able to circulate, in a few months, and most have no resources to change their vehicles. In case it were little, as you well know, minister, now comes the stratospheric rise of gasoline and diesel, which they assume - some on strike from yesterday or for days - waiting for government aid. If urgent measures are not put in place, they are being left in the gutter. You have commented in your speech that the measures will be speeded up. I've been reminded of the song - I don't know if you know it - to be first-rate driver, accelerate, accelerate. It is now up to the Government to speed up. I know it is not their direct competence, but measures must really be urgent, not to leave them at the dawn of when they make the decision, when the war began on 24 February and it has been weeks. Going to the decree - we are going to vote in favour of its validation, and we want it to be processed as a bill - prohibits truck drivers from having to assume the load and discharge of the goods they carry, but in the sector they are already saying that made the law, made the trap. The Ministry's text leads to some confusion because, on the one hand, it says that the loading and unloading of the goods will be on behalf of the shipper and the consignee respectively, but it also says: unless it has previously been agreed in writing that this work is the responsibility of the carrier, who will charge a supplement outside the price of the transport. Here is the question: Who will be the carrier: a carrier's companion or the carrier who agrees to load and unload as a carrier by charging for that work separately? We left it here, hoping to process it as a project. It is true that there is a particularly unfair situation in long-distance transport, but we all know that we are now going to have to look for solutions for medium-distance transport, especially when we are talking about food. As I said, we will vote in favour of validation and that it is treated as a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u16	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Today we are discussing the validation of the Royal Decree-Law on measures to improve the sustainability of the transport of goods by road and the operation of the logistics chain, transposing European directives, and on exceptional measures for the revision of prices in public works contracts. We see again how you are able to collect in a real decree law an endless number of issues that are unrelated to each other, and you have been able to put all the different problems in a cocktail pot, mix it all in a practice that you know perfectly well that is an institutional disloyalty with the Legislative Power, and, moreover, you still do not do it well because you leave many of the problems unresolved. Today we are going to talk about the dignification and professionalisation of an essential sector, as has already been demonstrated during the toughest moments of the pandemic, such as the freight transport sector, a sector which in recent years has suffered a precariousness of its working conditions which has led to an inevitable loss of professionals due to the lack of decent conditions. To all this, we must add the unsustainable increase in fuel and raw materials prices in recent months, which can lead thousands of workers in the sector to a situation of economic bankruptcy if appropriate measures are not taken. We must remember that the current fleet of trucks and vans in the state is totally ageing. According to DGT data, 64% of petrol trucks and 50% of diesel trucks are over 15 years old. And this, if we add it to the fact that 99% of vehicles are internal combustion, leaves us in a situation of extreme vulnerability to market fluctuations, apart from the obvious and harmful environmental consequences. We are talking about a structural problem that has undoubtedly been aggravated by the current crisis, and that is why we are voting in favour of the validation of this royal decree, because the transport sector needs it. However, we would like to point out once again that your proposals seem very inadequate to us, and that is why we also announce our vote in favour of processing this royal decree as a bill, to include all the improvements that you have left in some area of rest. By way of example, we are convinced that the package of measures contained in the Royal Decree-Law should also be extended to passenger transport, because the current situation is untenable and unsustainable. In two years, fuel prices have increased by 43% according to data from the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge and for the most part have not been reflected in service prices. The cost has increased by 17% only for fuels. Various organizations have warned that the situation in the land passenger transport sector is already unsustainable. Another point that we also miss is that the professional activity of transport drivers is collected as high risk by the International Labour Organization for increases in the rates of injury and morbidity. From here we urge the Ministries of Labour and Social Security to recognize the activity carried out by the drivers of transport in which the circumstances legally required by Royal Decree 1698/2011 are met in order to be able to reduce the ordinary retirement age once. And wages must also be addressed: decent wages, commensurate with the sector's responsibility and danger. These must include all hours at the company's disposal and not just the kilometers travelled, because they are a double aggravation work, since many times - and more so in the case of self-employed workers - they cannot even take them to bill. We welcome the fact that the problem of loading and unloading is finally being addressed. In many cases there is an abuse of large companies to the detriment of workers in the transport sector. In most cases, after driving long days, they must then carry out loading and unloading tasks. But the problem not only remains here, but, when they reach the logistics platforms, in some cases they can exceed five hours of waiting. But, like many of the points of the royal decree law, this point is not well defined; it lacks to see and agree what exceptions will be by regulation. I will not end without insisting again on the need to dignify the working conditions of all workers in the sector, both wage earners and self-employed workers. It is necessary to alleviate the cost that self-employed workers and small transport companies have been facing for months and that will intensify and prolong over time due to the war caused by the invasion of Ukraine. The transport sector - you know - has been tense for years and the solutions agreed on in December are lacking in much ambition. That is why we are demanding that you go up a march and step on the accelerator, because the traffic light of the ecological and social transition is now green; if not, the sector will remain at a dead end of difficult repair with consequences that we cannot afford right now. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granollers. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, first of all, in our parliamentary group, we want to continue to make a determined commitment to peace and a dialogue solution to the conflict in Ukraine. We believe that this conflict will only be resolved at one table and that every effort must be made by the countries of Europe to move towards an international peace conference that guarantees peace and security to all the peoples of Europe. At the moment, Europe's barn is burning and one of the most important barns in the world is burning. Not only is there going to be consequences in Europe, many people are going to pay very seriously for a food crisis that is currently only in the foreground. This crisis cannot be paid for by the popular sectors. We believe that a public bet is necessary to safeguard the interests of the population as a whole in the face of such a grave and distressing situation as is currently being experienced. This royal decree is a first step, a first step that poses answers to questions that are structural and that come from decades in the field of the transport of goods by road. We have a problem and it is that precariousness has taken over our productive fabric and our service fabric. The outsourcing, the devaluation of work and the primacy of those engaged in brokering against those who perform the services are strangling our productive fabric and our service fabric. And when short-term problems occur, such as those we are currently experiencing, these sectors end up in particularly desperate situations. The widespread precariousness in the sector is unbearable and that is something that comes from far away and responds to a model. What is already being demanded is the need to articulate price controls that will put a stop to speculation, because it is not possible to assume that the overall transport costs charged to the final prices are high when the salaries of the people who work are increasingly low. In that regard, we would also like to call for the implementation of collective agreements. The collective transport agreement must be complied with and there must be a commitment on the part of the employer for its compliance. There has to be a policy of protection for SMEs and self-employed people, and that means having a policy of price control to ensure that people when they work have sufficient remuneration and do not stay on the road in the hands of speculators and intermediaries. [[Applauds]] It is true that the precariousness of working conditions is not an exclusive problem of the transport of goods by road, but that the reduction coefficients already cry to the sky, already cry to the sky! There has been an agreement between the social partners for many years and the files in the Ministry of Social Security have been stalled for too long. We need protection at work and that means that progress must be made - in this sector too - towards a retirement at the age of 60 that guarantees road safety and safety at work. That is a path that we must go along together with the political forces and the decision must also be made courageously in the Ministry of Social Security itself. These are very difficult times. At the moment, we believe that the State has to give its breast to show itself as a central element in the balance of relations that take place in our country, so that the strong do not squeeze the weak and the State becomes a guarantor of their interests. Faced with this, one must understand that precariousness has been a key element. On the issue of energy, it would also be important to remember how these impacts on the international market could be cushioned if we had powerful public energy companies covering all sectors. [[Applauds]] But I'm telling you, we've been lucky in misfortune. If in 2008 the Zapatero government had listened to Juan Carlos I in his mediation to sell Repsol to LUKoil, our country would have a very serious situation today. I want to thank you that at the time you did not listen to those lobbying efforts that you did at the hand of Corinna Larsen. We need to understand that services and production must be guaranteed in the face of speculation. That also means that we are aware that, together with pricing, we need to start thinking about complying with the Constitution in order to guarantee the rights of the entire population. I would like to recall an article on the bottom left within the Spanish Constitution which says: 'The State, by law, will be able to plan general economic activity to meet collective needs, to balance and harmonize regional and sectoral development and to stimulate income and wealth growth and their fairest distribution'. We need to implement the constitutional pact. [[Applauds]] We know that there is a regime that has been trying for a long time to undermine compliance with the social aspects of our Constitution. This is one of the first steps in the face of the crisis that we are currently experiencing as a result of the conflict in Ukraine. They will come more at the end of the month; let them all be in the same direction to guarantee the rights of the whole citizenry. We do not have a euro left in our hands for the equality of the entire population of this country, for maternity and paternity leave, for coverage and for social protection for the whole population. Faced with those who want to deliver the budgets that are allocated to the social needs of our people to the electricians to pay the bill, we have to be clear: the electrics that they pay must be done as soon as possible with their supernefficiaries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, a previous comment. You haven't stopped here from talking about consensus, but you know what's out there is a strike, right? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The Government is bringing us today a package of measures for road hauliers; a package, like everything they do, which is deficient. On July 23, 2020, the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda undertook to study much of the sector's claims and yet what brings us to this House today is more than insulting road hauliers. They left them out of aid for fleet transformation, left them out of direct aid for support for business solvency and reduced aid for the abandonment of the profession by EUR 16,000. And where are the 200 million that still owes them the health cent? What about your safety? Where's your security? Only thirty-seven parking lots are considered safe, having resulted in an increase in the theft of cargo, police stations on board trucks and attacks on drivers; not to mention that they have not yet been recognized all that they did for the Spaniards during the illegal confinement. [[Applauds]] Then, they demonstrated their capacity in deplorable conditions, reducing the rest periods and putting the supply of the Spaniards to their own safety, without an open bar where they could have a coffee, not a single place where they could clean up. But you guys, that doesn't matter. You don't care about transporters. That's why they left them out of aid, that's why they don't pay them what they owe, that's why they continue to suffer assaults and thefts on their goods. They are focused on their dark Agenda 2030 and the even darker interests of the radical ecolobbies that mark it. From the interventions of the rest of the parliamentary groups I can conclude that it seems that with this royal decree they have managed to divert attention from what is really important. This government follows a globalist agenda that captures the Europeanist positions of an energy policy that harms our transporters. [[Applauds]] It is an agenda that wants to prevent private road traffic. In Spain 95% of freight transport is carried out by road and this seems to clash with its beloved 2030 Agenda and its emission quota. Of course, our transporters will have to buy a Falcon in order to fight climate change, as our president does; by the way, then declares it a state secret. [[applause]] And they want to end our transporters in the only way they know: by suffocating the sector. We have the Eurovignette as a new toll on heavy trucks, sanctions such as the premium for excess CO2 emissions or the deorbited rise in the price of hydrocarbons. Gas oil accounts for one third of the costs of a sector in which six out of ten workers are self-employed or companies with fewer than three trucks, because we talk about family businesses, we talk about families. The price of fuel is the most expensive in history; not even in 2008 or 2009, when oil reached 140 dollars a barrel, we paid 2 euros per litre of gasoline. And why? Well, you said it here: it's Putin's fault; Putin's, Franco's or the heteropatriarchy, anyone's fault if they don't recognize political responsibilities. [[Applauds]] However, this government is pocketing no less than EUR 250 million a month for the rise of fuels, because - let us remember - the taxes that charge them are 21 % VAT and more than 30 % excise duties. And, far from compensating for these measures by reducing hydrocarbon taxes as other states - such as Poland - have already done, as those 250 million go very well, they go and tell the carriers to solve the paper themselves with the impact on prices and so on. Just as VOX is on the side of our field to protect our farmers from unfair foreign competition, we are on the side of our carriers, which are a key strategic sector that should be a priority for this government. [[Applauds]] And, in case all this is not enough, they also want to implement a payment system on all the high-capacity roads in Spain. In this regard, my parliamentary group took a non-legislative motion to prevent this new abuse to the Transport Committee meeting on 24 February. Well, all the groups in line with that globalist agenda voted against, except for the People's Parliamentary Group; and I say, except for the vote, because we all know that some of its leaders also obey the globalist agenda. The multiple and repeated VOX proposals for this sector have been systematically rejected. Not a single measure that gives them oxygen, families that lose their livelihood and their trucks and have nowhere to survive, and give them structural answers. Thus, every step this Government takes is one more step towards the poverty and ruin of all Spaniards. If they really cared about transporters, they would lower taxes on hydrocarbons and eliminate the commitment made with Brussels to implement a payment system on all high-capacity roads in Spain - the Eurovignette - or green taxes. However, they suffocate them, just as they suffocate all Spaniards with the rise of the price of light and gas, the announcement of new taxes or inflation triggered. And why are they suffocating them? To distribute 20 billion in inequality policies and to maintain the most expensive government structure in Spain's history. [[Applauds]] They come here, with the tougher face than the sole of a shoe, to bring a package of measures that have had the little shame of calling measures to improve the sustainability of the transport of goods by road and the operation of the logistics chain. It is a real insult when it is precisely this Government that is responsible for the increase in prices and the cause of the situation in which our carriers find themselves. [[The lady]] And that's why... I'd like the minister to listen to me, but the message goes to the Spaniards, don't worry. [[Applauds]] For this reason and for 20 billion more reasons, I encourage all transporters to join, as we will do this Saturday, the 19th, in the demonstration convened by the Union Solidarity before the municipalities of all Spain; not for those grateful stomachs of Workers' Commissions and UGT, which were manifested when the price of light was 70 euros megawatt/hour, but they do not do it today that costs 545. They'll still be digesting the seafood. [[Applauds]] As our spokesman says, the Spaniards will only get ahead when we leave them behind. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u21	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u22	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, I do not think I will find anything if I say that this government is always late and that it is always wrong, perhaps because that is the consequence that you are permanently more concerned about finding the excuse than finding the solution to the problems arising from the management of this government. For you it's always someone's fault, if it's not the PP it's the virus and now Putin. However, for Spanish citizens the reality is that there is no other responsibility than that of the worst government in our recent history. When in September we had already been insisting for several months that they had to take measures to contain the price rise faced by families and businesses - we were already at the time with an inflation of 4% - you, by the mouth of the economic vice president, said that price escalation was not worrying because they stemmed from economic growth. [[Shows a press clipping]] There's nothing there. But when Putin invaded Ukraine we already had inflation above 7%, the highest in the last thirty-five years. Therefore, to excuse the rise in energy prices and the rest of the basket of the purchase by the war of Ukraine is but another of the innumerable fallacies of this government, of the government of Pedro Sánchez. In January 2021 the light had a price of 4,19 euros megawatt/hour and at the end of the year the 360 euros were reached; the price of the gas last December was 183 euros megawatt compared to the 20 euros that it cost at the beginning of the year, and only the diesel oil rises by 32 % when the invasion of Ukraine was not yet crystallized. They were clear signs that something had to be done. However, you, Minister, have not taken a single measure, because this situation has served the government to beat all records in tax collection in 2021. For this reason, and not for any other reason, these days there are mobilizations on the streets of transporters, farmers, fishermen, parents who have become more difficult to lift the blind every day because the energy and raw materials costs are becoming increasingly insurmountable. As is customary, this Government brings us a population of decrees to this House that includes various subjects. On the one hand, the European directive on displaced drivers is transposed and legal amendments are introduced within the framework of the working conditions of transporters - the result of the demands and demands of the sector in the last three years - such as the prohibition of drivers' participation in loading and unloading operations and the reduction of waiting times from two hours to one. These are measures, therefore, which our group will support. However, today the big problem of transport is the price of fuels and a measure such as the mandatory revision of the contract price is not the solution to the increases in the costs of carriers. In fact, the very statement of reasons for this decree states that it is a measure for a scenario of sustained increase in the price of diesel, something that does not respond to the current situation because the increase in diesel is less sustained. That's why I said the government's late. Madam Minister, lower the VAT on fuels to 4% and amend the hydrocarbon tax. Don't wait another day. [[Applauds]] You can't look anywhere else here too. It is their responsibility to ensure the movement of goods, it is their responsibility to ensure that the products of our farmers and farmers reach the markets, and it is their responsibility also to offer a solution to the transporters, because every day the situation is exacerbated and 90% of them are bankrupt. On the other hand, the second section of this decree includes mechanisms for reviewing the prices of public works contracts, which are leading to a real collapse after more than a year of claims by the sector due to the disproportionate increase in the costs of materials. The People's Parliamentary Group last autumn, after checking the paralysis of countless public works, brought a proposal to this House to which the Socialist Parliamentary Group voted against. Today they bring this decree - and I repeat it again, Minister - late and bad. It provides for exceptional revisions to contracts, but limited to the increase in steel, aluminium, copper and bituminous. It is true that these materials represent important units of work, but what about the rest that are excluded? Have there been no increases in energy or other materials? The revisions are limited to 2021 and the revision is also limited to 20% of the contract price. Let us see, with an increase of 105 % in steel, with an increase of 81 % in aluminium or with the 180% that had risen the price of oil before the war, what they bring can certainly be a relief but it is not much less the definitive solution, because what is being done is to condemn many works not to be executed or to be carried out in losses. Not to mention, of course, that the possibility of revising the deadlines for implementation, as requested by the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, is not envisaged. I'm done, Madam President. The People's Group will support the validation of this royal decree. We do so in an exercise of responsibility because it includes positive measures, but it is neither sufficient nor responsive to the current situation of the sectors concerned, mainly the carriers and contractors of the State Administration itself. That is why we are asking the government today for more. Minister, transporters on the streets, farmers on the streets, fishermen on the streets and suffocated Spaniards without being able to step on the street. Don't waste any more time. Why do they strive to wait until the end of the month? Why do they strive to make decisions at the end of the month when the Spaniards cannot reach the end of the month? Take the hand that the People's Party is offering you and rectify your energy policy, rectify your fiscal policy and rectify your economic policy, because if you don't do it today, if you don't, you're going to ruin too many people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u24	Thank you, President. No one can doubt that we have been very complex in this country and in the world for a few years. From the silence of the COVID that we all remember, the thundering silence of the streets, a thundering silence in circumstances that we had not lived in this country or in the world for a long time, curiously we have passed to the noise of war. What a difference, isn't it? In a very short time the world is experiencing a very complex situation. In this debate we are going to talk about truckers and transporters... but I think we are going to talk about something much more important, which is the situation we are living in and how each political party is going to stand in front of this situation. I would like to thank the position of the People's Parliamentary Group; I say the position by voting in favour, because the speech you made in the speech is radically different. And, at the juncture we're living, we've seen what VOX is looking for with his intervention. What he seeks with his actions is to increase noise and I believe that in this Europe has taught us all a lesson. Europe has given a lesson in unity. Europe has said: we silence the war. And I believe that, with our actions and our speeches, the Democrats in this country must demonstrate that war can be silenced and we must do so by supporting the measures that are good for many sectors. [[applause]] If we look at the statements made by the spokesman for VOX, we see what he has named and how he has criticized the European Union. Are we aware of what it means in the current situation to criticize the body that allows us all to feel more secure, to feel that we have the strength of the democratic state to fight against unrighteousness? Are we aware that what VOX has done here today is to show that it wants to try to make the noise of the streets, the noise of people's despair, the noise of the situation that lives every day, triumph and above all benefit the one who is trying to attack democracy? I think we all have to be aware of that situation. I can get to understand the transporters, the truckers who are demonstrating, who are making a strike because they think they have a situation that can be improved - how can I not understand it!-, truckers who also fought for a long time and especially during the pandemic so that we all had everything. Obviously I understand that transporter that in a situation of tiredness he seeks to be able to say loudly that he is tired, just as I understand farmers who can say that they are tired, just as I can understand that any citizen can say that he is tired. Faced with that, all that remains is that the political parties listen to these sectors, as we are doing, try to take action and above all in this Parliament we show the unity of the Spanish people, the unity to solve and to get out of the complicated situation we are experiencing. [[applause]] This is what we are playing with each of our interventions. I know it's much more comfortable, much more enriching for some, to do one of those viral interventions that allow you to have a video that you upload to social media, that you share, that your followers tease it, that they 'like' it. I know it's much more comforting, but I think there are moments in history, and this is one of them, where we have to give up showing the differences to put into value what unites us. That is why I am not going to focus today on what makes me different from the People's Party, which is a lot; I am not going to focus on the statements made today by the People's Party, which I do not share, I am going to focus on the fact that the People's Party Today with the majority of the House is going to support a decree that is good for the carriers of this country, which is good for the construction companies, which is good above all for the mood of our country. [[applause]] As I said, complex times are coming. We live in high volatility, we already live in high volatility; the pandemic and the war have increased it. Faced with this, politics has to rise to the challenge. I was saying at the beginning of my speech that I understand what a trucker can feel, but before that I believe that we have an obligation in this House, as I said at the beginning, to silence the noise of war, and that is only done with consensus. Why can't we have a truce? Why can't we set the example that I think many citizens need and expect? I think that's what we have to try. I do not believe that any political party will be affected by the fact that it spends a few months not criticizing the Government, even if it does not agree with what it is doing, and providing formulas in the plan that the Spanish Government is going to propose in the coming weeks. I believe that this is what many citizens of us expect, and above all that will enable us to silence the radicalism of VOX, the radicalism of the far right. Because the radicalism of the far right benefits those who want to end a democracy that for many years has cost them to build many generations who struggled to have what we have here today, which is the word to defend what we think, the word to defend and disagree even with the political opponent, but that is why we are at a key moment. I would like to highlight the National Road Transport Committee, which represents the sector, which has a majority representation, which supports this decree and which also works with the Government to ensure that we continue to make progress on everything that needs to be done. [[Applauds]] Some wonder why this Government does not listen to truckers who are demonstrating on the streets individually. I ask one question: what would happen if the government decided tomorrow that to consult an autonomous community, instead of asking its president, it asks individual citizens? We would think that he is not complying with the democratic rules that we have given ourselves. That is why I believe that the Government is doing well by strengthening the National Transport Committee, which was also elected relatively recently and has a four-year mandate. [[Applauds]] That does not mean that in some moments we have to rethink how the representation is chosen, we have to do it, but now the representation is what it is. It ended just like I started. We have an obligation for all of us here, even if it is not a small part of the Chamber, that every day we hope it will be smaller, to silence the noise of those who are trying to put an end to what has made us all proud of our country, our democracy and our welfare system and for what we have fought so hard for. Let us not allow those who laugh at these words about democracy to end it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. [[Mr Sánchez del Real speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Sánchez del Real, thank you very much for your silence. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u26	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the Sport Bill. I should like to inform you that the Republican and Plural parliamentary groups have requested the enactment of this bill. These requests shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendment as a whole. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u27	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen. I am addressing you today to defend the Sport Bill and to request your support for it by voting against the amendment to the full refund presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Since the comments that this group has made in its amendment to the whole of it are legitimate, we do not share the view that there are competitive invasions in the draft Sports Act or that the text that we submit to you limits the ability of the autonomous communities to develop competition in the field of sport. Of course, all texts are capable of improvement and we believe that partial amendments should be used to do that. We also believe that the concept of the sport model can always be strengthened or clarified, as well as addressing proposals not contained in the text, correcting shortcomings to promote a new sport model that favours society as a whole. But that can only be done by entering into the debate on the draft, by not delaying once again the necessary adoption of a sport law that goes beyond the previous one. Therefore, and from the outset, I show you that the Government and the parliamentary majority on which it is based will approach the debate on the amendments from a dialogue and open perspective. Thirty years have passed since the entry into force of the current Sports Act of 15 October 1990. It is essential to adopt a new law that updates the norm and adapts the legal framework for sport to a much more complex, developed and professionalized environment than three decades ago. The need for this reform has been highlighted especially in recent years by the players in the sport ecosystem, as well as on several occasions by various speakers from the various parliamentary groups. This is a reformist government and under this premise that things need to be changed, things need to be improved, we have brought to this House the reform of a law in force since 1990. The bill that we bring to the House allows us to address the pressing task of updating the legal framework to new times and new needs, with particular attention to two aspects that were not covered by the 1990 Act: the first, the integration of sport practiced by persons with disabilities, and the second, the protection and claim of the role of women in all its dimensions and from all aspects, both within and outside the federated sphere, both professional and non-professional athletes, as well as the role of managers and directors of sports clubs, sports federations and sports associations. The Constitution, in its article 43.3, contains a mandate for the public authorities to promote physical education and sport. In order to fulfil this mandate, we submit a draft Sports Act which regulates all aspects that do not correspond to the Autonomous Communities under section 148.1, heading 19, of the Magna Charter. As far as competition is concerned, we know that all the autonomous communities have assumed statutory exclusive powers in the field of sport, but these powers are necessarily confined to their respective territorial areas. Accordingly, the purpose of this bill is to establish the legal framework for the regulation of physical activity and sport at the State level, in accordance with the constitutional provisions. In this regard, the Constitutional Court has recognized throughout its doctrine that the State can influence this matter through other competition titles or through regulations that affect the general interests of Spanish sport as a whole. See, for example, Constitutional Court ruling 80/2012 of 18 April. The court has made clear on several occasions - it is possible to see judgments 16/1996, 194/1998, 110/2012 or, more recently, 33/2018 - the limits of autonomous competence in sport, and points out that the statutory attribution of exclusive competence in sport must necessarily take into account two aspects: first, the territorially limited nature of autonomous competence, i.e. that autonomous competence is confined only to the territory of each autonomous community, and second, the possible impact of general interests of a supra-autonomic nature of the Spanish sport as a whole, whose defence and promotion are the responsibility of the State. It is important that, while the autonomous communities have exclusive competence in sport, the State can also intervene with them in regulating sport in the two aspects mentioned above. The focus on this issue is precisely to respond to the approach of the amendment as a whole put forward by the Republican Group. Constitutional jurisprudence tells us that the very polyhedral reality of sport necessarily determines the intersection of competition titles. Sports activities include health, culture, research, physical education, regulated professions or commercial legislation. The concurrence of the actions of the various public administrations - the state, the autonomous and the local - may in some cases require supra-autonomic action because of the need for a global approach, or the coordination of various actions because they are actions in which the sport is related to another matter attributed competently to the State, such as international relations. This bill, therefore, clearly represents this desire for inter-territorial coordination and cooperation and, in turn, to strengthen sport at the international level. As I said, as a text it is naturally perfectable, and to this we must all engage in the negotiation process of the partial amendments, but I urge you once again to give the green light to the discussion of a law that is called upon to replace the existing Sport Law, which already has thirty years of life. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to briefly explain to you the content of the draft law, which, as you know, is structured into nine titles and I will highlight only the most innovative aspects. Title I regulates the administrative organization of sport, that is, the direction of the state policy of sport and the functions, political regime and structure of the Higher Sports Council, to which it corresponds its direct management - certainly, I take advantage to greet its president, who accompanies us today from the rostrum -. It highlights the establishment of the Sectoral Conference on Sport as a permanent body for coordination, cooperation and collaboration between the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla in the field of physical activity and sport, which aims to promote the cohesion of the sport system. Title II concerns the players in sport, the protagonists in sport, devoting Chapter I to the classification and corresponding definitions between high-level and high-performance athletes, as well as between professional and non-professional athletes. The concept of sport is multidimensional and the law has sought to protect all possible subjects who practice sport, whether professionally, officially or unofficially, and also as a leisure activity, giving each of them specific rights and obligations. Title III deals with sports associations, and is an essential title of definition and delimitation of functions in the broad associative fabric of national sport. It regulates Spanish sports federations, which act as collaborators of the Administration in the promotion, organization, regulation, development and practice of sport throughout the territory of the State. With the aim of ensuring real equality in all sports areas, the law establishes the obligation of sports entities to balance the presence of men and women in their governing bodies. In addition, the Spanish sports federations and professional leagues will be required to produce an annual report on equality between women and men with regard to the competitions they organise. They will also be obliged to draw up a specific plan for reconciliation and co-responsibility, with specific protective measures in the case of maternity and breastfeeding, a clear policy of support for families. On the other hand, it establishes the obligation to promote equality in the visibility of sports events in the male and female categories in the media, to ensure equal prizes between the sexes and to ensure that the media representation of women is free of cosification and sexist stereotypes. It is time to push forward this change, giving voice and visibility to women athletes, as well as to groups of people with disabilities who want to practice sports, but in an inclusive way and not under an old-fashioned segregated model. With regard to this boost to sport among women, let me stress the importance of last Monday's adoption of the statutes of the women's professional football league as a clear commitment of the Government to the promotion and recognition of sport among women. [[Applauds]] Allow me to congratulate those who are the real protagonists of this agreement, namely the clubs, the Royal Spanish Football Federation and the Higher Sports Council, and above all the footballers, with this - I am grateful, of course, for their support. It is because of this progress, it is a success that has been won at once and that it is, first and foremost, due to its commitment. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the autonomous sports federations, which I am aware is also a matter of concern, article 44 of the law regulates their participation in official sports activities or competitions at the state or international level through the Spanish sports federation, as provided for by the international federations of the various sports disciplines. In any case, I want to take this opportunity to point out that sport must serve to unite and not to separate, because together we are stronger and better. Title IV refers to the Olympic and Paralympic Committees, defining their nature and main function. We should note the special interest expressed by the Spanish Paralympic Committee in the thrust of this bill and its fervent desire for it to move forward with the decisive impetus it represents for inclusive sport in our country. Title V deals with sports activity and structures the regulation of competitions, the responsibility of the organizers of official and non-official competitions, university sport, school-age sport and unofficial sports activity, as well as military sport. Title VI, for its part, concerns the organisation of professional competitions, while Title VII regulates the sanctioning regime. We know that this title has given rise to some discrepancies. Welcome, we have talked about them, we have treated them on the basis of any amendments that may be submitted by the various groups to this bill. But, anyway, I want to tell you that what this bill does is to differentiate between the sanctioning regime that is exercised by the General Administration of the State on natural or legal persons and the sports disciplinary regime, referring to the violation of the rules of play or competition. Title VIII regulates conflict resolution in sport, and this has been another issue that has given rise to debate and perhaps some confusion that needs to be clarified. The disciplinary regime in the federation will be known and resolved by the disciplinary bodies of the sports federations, as is currently the case. Federal disciplinary decisions will therefore continue to be subject to appeal before the Administrative Court of Sport when they result in the imposition of penalties for the deprivation, revocation, suspension or permanent deprivation of all rights inherent in the licence. Of course, decisions of the Administrative Court of Sport that exhaust the administrative route will be subject to appeal to the administrative-contentious jurisdiction, as is currently the case. The rest of the disciplinary decisions handed down by the Spanish sports federations would not be subject to appeal before this administrative court, but could be appealed against either of the following two forms of challenge: before the civil court, in an ordinary declaratory procedure, or before the out-of-court dispute resolution system, in an arbitral procedure. Such sanctions may be resorted to by the systems or mechanisms of private associations, thereby strengthening the control of the legality of such decisions. In this regard, each person or entity affiliated to the Spanish sports federations would have the power to determine whether he or she chooses to appeal to the ordinary courts and tribunals of civil law or whether, as is the case in the international sports federations, his or her appeal or challenge is brought through arbitration. Why have we chosen to expand that possibility? Because we respond to a historical demand of the whole of the Spanish federated sport. Therefore, the law offers greater guarantees and also greater freedom of choice to each athlete to defend what he considers his rights to be the most appropriate form, more in keeping with his interests. Finally, Title IX deals with the planning of sports facilities for sport. The draft law also incorporates provisions for the protection of minors, in accordance with the new Organic Law 8/2021 of 4 June on the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence. Sporting by minors, their rights and needs, shall be the subject of special protection by the public authorities. Sports entities shall ensure compliance with the rules for the protection and guardianship of such persons, in accordance with the provisions of this Organic Law. In our fight against any form of abuse in sport, the law provides that Spanish sports federations and professional leagues must have a protocol of prevention and action for situations of discrimination, abuse, sexual harassment and harassment on grounds of sex. We all agree on the protection of freedom and, in the field of sport, we must do so in a special way and, therefore, the law devotes broad precepts in this direction. [[Applauds]] The law also strengthens the rights of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersex persons. We usually say LGBT people, but from time to time, it's worth knowing what's behind those acronyms, and behind those acronyms there are people with a different sexual orientation than the majority. [[Applauds]] And what are the two essential criteria by which we incorporate this issue into the bill? First, to ensure the participation and access of all people to sport, and second, to eradicate any discriminatory manifestation or manifestation of LGBT in sport. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this law aims to respond to the challenges of the present and future of sport. It is the response to broad demands for renewal of the sector, which has been calling for at least - we have looked at - twenty years for changes in a law that dates back thirty years. It is the fruit of the work of many years, of many governments, and whose elaboration we owe to the Higher Sports Council, which has maintained a constant dialogue with the actors directly involved in the sport ecosystem. In this regard, I would like to thank the work and commitment of the team of the Higher Sports Council and, in particular, its chairman, who, as I have said, accompanies us in this rostrum, which has enabled us to arrive at the House with a very hard-working text, not perfect and, therefore, and I reiterate, that it should be in the process of partial amendments in which we all improve it even further or correct some absences or errors that may have slipped into it. This text represents a significant advance in equality, inclusion and sustainable development and is therefore consistent with the policies designed at the United Nations and endorsed by this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you that during the parliamentary procedure of this bill - once we have passed the procedure of amendment to the whole, as we hope will happen because, I repeat, we cannot ask the Spanish sport to wait any longer to have a new law that regulates it - let us discuss and talk about all those aspects that need to be nuanced and enriched, that they should talk about it among the parliamentary groups, that they should use it - I say this in the full sense of the expression - to the Higher Sports Council to contrast proposed positions and also to work out agreements, which are always necessary. We should all be able to give this year's green light to a text that generates a broad consensus, which bets on a profound renewal of the sport model. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the Government and the groups that support it will maintain an open spirit, flexible to the suggestions, observations and requests made to us by the different parliamentary groups, and I am convinced that Spanish sport, sportsmen, sportswomen and, in general, the whole of society will thank us. That is why - and it has ended - he invited his ladies and gentlemen to work together on this subject on the basis of the understanding of sport as a corrective element of inequalities, an engine of economic development and social cohesion. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I call on the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. We bring to this House today our amendment to the entire Sports Act. This is the Republican Group's response to another re-centralizing law of the Spanish Government. One more, one more. Again he tries to make us fall into the same trap as always: they sell social improvements that it is not for the State Administration to execute. That is, on many occasions, they are social improvements that already promote the competent territories, as is the case, for example, in Catalonia. [[The Lord]] They underestimate autonomous governments, their functions and, above all, their competences. Let me ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, how many amendments in their entirety do we have to make in order for you to understand? We can go on like this whenever we need to. It is surprising that, seeing that with other laws they do the same, exactly the same, and they come out scarred in addition, they continue to do so. And, moreover, they are even surprised when we denounce the violation of our competences. I don't know what a surprise there is, it's evidence. And when I speak of our competences, I speak of the fact that up to three - I stress, three - autonomous statutes are not complied with, which are precisely the three statutes of the Catalan countries: Catalonia, País Valencià, Illes Balears. [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous. [[Applauds]] Do you know what's especially striking? We are not surprised that the most responsible for this law, which is the Minister of Culture and Sport, Miquel Iceta, former Minister of Territorial Policy, who has also passed through the Parliament of Catalonia, does not know the competences and rights of the territories of the State. Maybe we should go back to school. Minister, at what point did you propose to introduce a law that steals, literally steals the good work that is done from the autonomous administrations, which are so well functioning? By system, decentralization is his word. And in case someone doesn't know what it means, it's action and effect of re-centralizing power in the state, and you do it with everything and for everything. Minister, you said that a new law on sport is necessary, and I agree, of course, but not so, by not invading the powers of the autonomous communities. How are you going to save this poor law, Minister? With the extreme right and the right, now more decaffeinated, next to the fascist group of the House? Of course, I don't forget the Citizens, who, despite the fact that there are two televisions left, we also tell in this bag. Will they continue to side with those who are just about to take them out of the Moncloa? Will we see today the most progressive government in history saving itself with the most racy right in this country? And speaking of rancio, the truth is that that of centralizing, removing competencies, that everything has to go through Madrid sounds to me like you are wanting to eliminate autonomy, and that makes you catch a little green rancio, and it's worrying. Minister, yesterday, in the hallway, I wonder why we're so bad. Doesn't he know? We are independenceists, we are the personification of evil. Didn't you know? Who's the bad guy today, Minister? You are well aware that we have not withdrawn this amendment as a whole because you are not able to make the public commitment to defend our competences; and, if you do not know, someone should have told you. Sports in Catalonia is an example for everyone, and hence their training, education and sports ethics. Is this your way of recognizing the effort, commitment and results of sport in Catalonia? What does the Minister of Culture and Sport value about the sport of his land? This is a law that indiscriminately limits the autonomy of sports federations, less that of the Spanish one, of course. Everything has to pass through the Spanish federations and the Higher Council of Sports, leaving the management of federations, entities and clubs, tied to the feet and hands in order to manage the day-to-day of the different sports disciplines. And now I would like to refer to the great fetish of the Government of Spain, that article 149.1.1.a of the Spanish Constitution, which attributes to the State the regulation of the conditions that guarantee the equality of all citizens, because this article cannot be used as an ace in the sleeve to justify all the laws of the Spanish Government that invade competences, because it is not the first. And this is not what Esquerra Republicana says, this is what the consolidated constitutional jurisprudence says, that is, there are judgments of the Constitutional Court that endorse our arguments and make clear the place of the Spanish State, far from our competences. I still want to be a little more precise about this. Equality is not normative uniformity. There is a need for plurality and diversity of rules, which is the natural fruit of a decentralized State. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned that they legitimise this so backward position. Stop pretending to be pursuing a decentralized state. And I don't even say federal anymore, because you don't believe it either. If what they are pursuing is a centralization, say it loud and clear; stop fooling people at once. Minister, here I think we will agree: our job is to ensure that sport practice is accessible, egalitarian, inclusive and healthy, looking for all sportsmen, professionals or amateurs, and at the same time for all those people who enjoy every day seeing how their son or daughter, nephew or niece, brother or sister or friend or friend starts in the practice of sport and that this start, of course, is as accessible and safe as possible. This law could improve on the current one - of course, we do not deny it - but precisely all that improves is in what violates the competences of the autonomous communities. What's the point? Do they look for the athletes or look for an electoral political revenue? Most of all, if it's the last thing, I think they're gonna go wrong. Today this amendment as a whole is not going to come out thanks to its dirty agreements with the right and the extreme right centralizers, but, look, don't trust or trust, that this is just a warning to navigators. Either they improve the bill in awareness of the demands of the parties that make up this House or they will most likely be able to meet with a surprise on the day they vote. And finally, a message for our colleague Mr. Soto. I, in fact, consider you a very valid person so that this is a law that does not invade competences and that really is for everyone. That is why I ask you to tell your colleagues and your minister, of course, that they really put their batteries on and that we really agree on it, more than anything because I don't know about them, but you honestly don't have a triplet. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u29	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, and Mr Merino Martínez has the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u30	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. On 22 December 2022 the draft law on sport entered the General Courts, once it was approved by the Council of Ministers on 17 December and was published in the Official Gazette of the State in January, with the aim of amending, as the Minister said, the current legislative framework for sport of 1990. But today we are also discussing an amendment to the full refund tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group for considering, according to them, various unconstitutional articles. From here we announce that our vote will be against this amendment precisely because on several occasions the Constitutional Court has already rejected its nationalist claims and precisely because Spanish sport needs contributions for construction, and not for destruction. [[Applauds]] As I said to them, the Sports Act of 1990 has been the fundamental pillar on which the organizational model of Spanish sport revolves: it drew up the basic legal framework on which the competences of the State are based and established the territorial organizational model, which has been characterized by being decentralized in institutions at the national, autonomous and local levels. But we cannot forget that its point of origin is article 43.3 of the Spanish Constitution, which expressly states that the public authorities will promote sport. Therefore, the exercise of the powers assumed as exclusive by the autonomous communities in their respective statutes of autonomy has as a limit the exercise of the competences of the State either by the concurrence of other titles of competition or as a result of the affectation of the property of national interest, and it also reassures me to listen on the same line to Minister Iceta. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, I remind you, and the Minister has also reminded you, that the Constitutional Court has already pointed out in 2012 that the international representation of Spanish federated sport can be classified as a matter of national interest and is therefore a sufficient basis for the State's regulatory intervention in sport. But let's get to the point. Two years ago the Government confined us for several weeks in our homes, and they will remember how physical exercise became an essential activity in our day-to-day lives. Why? Because the regular practice of physical activity, physical exercise is the most effective and efficient polypill to build a happier and more sustainable society. The People's Parliamentary Group then called for it to be declared an essential activity in a non-legislative proposal supported by almost all parliamentary groups in Congress. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to underline and you must know that physical inactivity also produces and is responsible for 52 000 deaths per year in our country, it is the other pandemic. In another matter, I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that most of you have participated in some marathon and have been able to experience the sensations that result from crossing the barrier of the 42 kilometres that separate Marathon from Athens. As a sports spokesman for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and in line with this predisposition to physical exercise, allow me to bring to this plenary the figure of the Greek hemerodrome. The spokesmen, saving the distances in time and form, have a similar task to that of these heralds of the Greek police. The hemerodromes were applied in the task of transferring messages of some importance, and for this purpose these runners trained hard, which gave them resistance and speed: they were able to cover distances greater than 200 kilometers in just twenty-four hours. I don't have a whole day to move what a good future sport law has to do, but I do have about seven minutes to analyze the point where we are currently. The reality is that Spain has a complex organizational structure without having a common strategic approach that unifies the objectives of the institutions, agencies and entities of the world of sport. We don't have a strategy, we don't have a plan, we don't have the model of the Spanish sport we want for the next decades. But from the People's Parliamentary Group we have chosen not to throw in the towel and have decided to participate in this marathon which is the elaboration of the new law of sport. And we have come not only to participate but to finish this career successfully, and for this we are ready to participate, together with the other parliamentary groups who wish to do so, in improving and changing as much as possible the current bill that was registered in the General Courts. I will tell you, in my opinion, what are the keys to achieving the goal of this marathon, which, as I say to you, is the elaboration of the new law of sport. First, the sport ecosystem is an economic agent of great importance and social impact in Spain, with an estimated figure of 12 billion euros, not counting the income derived from professional football. The time has come to make tax cuts and incentives to the private sector. Secondly, we must establish a national sport strategy that will develop the sport model in the coming years. If not, why and why a new sports law? Thirdly, the Administrative Court of Sport cannot be eliminated, by justice, by law and by solidarity with the sportsmen who have less resources. Fourthly, freedom to market image rights, audiovisual rights. The idea they had to create the Efficient and Global Spain Foundation meant breaking the autonomy and sustainability of the clubs. Royal Decree 5/2015 was a great legislative instrument for all sports. Fifth, sport must be a cross-cutting public policy of the Government of Spain that serves to coordinate throughout the territory. The Sport Sectoral Conference will therefore have to acquire a different configuration and greater competence. Sixthly, we need to design a new area of protection and support for professional athletes. We talk about updating the 1006, we talk about establishing a flat rate, we talk about university training for the post-sports career. Seventh, the protection of our minors. The physical and psychological protection of our little athletes must be a matter of state. Several studies say that more than 70% of children who play sports suffer some form of violence. Eighth, once and for all we must take on the challenge of designing and regulating the professions of sport, but also of determining which players and actors of sport make up the ecosystem that I pointed out before. Ninth, we cannot eliminate the active legitimization of trade unions and professional sports platforms to sign collective agreements that regulate aspects as essential as those achieved in women's sport. Tenthly, the participation of trans people in sports competitions cannot be omitted in this regulation, because that means obviating women's achievements in sport. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, having passed the equator of the legislature and returning to the races, I see that the government and its partners are crumbling. Any sports psychology specialist could make the simile of his situation with the moods that a runner has when facing a marathon. First of all, there is a stage of excitement in which anyone, whether trained or not, comes out euphoric, like you in the first plenary sessions of the legislature. At this stage, the feeling of denial follows. As the runner does not stop thinking, it goes beyond its possibilities, but so comes the fatigue as lead to the slippers, arms and shoulders and the runner enters in shock state. And the next steps are to suffer the loneliness and despair so peculiar to the Novel Corridor, although, certainly, gentlemen of the Government, I see you closer to finishing the race by walking or even in the broom car. But maybe what bothers me most and hates me in the bottom races is that someone cheats or skips the rules. With the deputies of the Republican Left I have and perceive that similar feeling, because I perceive deception in that way of running. To begin with, you feel very comfortable outside the constitutional order, you show it every day, but it is that you - do not forget - are and want to be the hare of Pedro Sánchez. Understand this as a hare to the runner that in mid- and long-distance tests he puts himself in the lead to impose an accelerated rhythm on the rest of the participants but never finishes the race and, as in his case, begins with euphoria to end up getting away from those who impose another rhythm. Lords of the PSOE, apply what the speedster Carl Lewis said: Avoiding the risks means giving up the right to experience half the emotions we are able to feel. Risk yourself, forget those who shout from the left more to the left and build Spain, turn the 'no is no' into a maybe, and from there there may be one too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u31	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Minister, we have listened to you because for a group like my own, Nueva Canarias, in reference to making it clear that it is not a question of involution on the development of the autonomous state and, consequently, on the centralization of competences, which we could not share, it was necessary to listen to your intervention. You have very much insisted that it is not a question of competing invasions, with which we fully agree, but also, apart from the doubts that we will have to resolve throughout the process of amendments, because we believe that the law should continue its processing, we are clear that thirty-two years later it is necessary to act on the Sports Act because sport becomes not only a professional or federated activity, but also a social good that needs to be protected. Therefore, we are going to facilitate the handling of the draft law because we believe that it is possible to intervene at the stage of amendments on some issues of obvious general social interest, and it is clear that a state framework law does not necessarily have to invade territorial competences, and we will insist on this, as is natural. It is important to take up new realities: the role of persons with disabilities, the role of women, the role of the implementation of equality and non-discrimination policies in sport seem to us to be values which must be reflected in a comprehensive and framework text, so we have no concern in this matter. We have had many meetings with large groups, which have demonstrated the numerous aspects of a law of this nature. Sports enthusiasts, in particular Aficiones Unidas, have moved some issues in which one would not fall if one were not told by those affected. Fans are part of the sport ecosystem, of course, and must be entitled to participation, to integration in the governing bodies of federations and leagues of different sports, because they too have something to say. Therefore, the right of affiliates and their associations to participate in the definition of sports activity and to indicate the risks to amateurs arising from that activity is an issue that we believe deserves consideration. The statutes of professional leagues should consider a commission of fans and followers, because, who represents the role of spectators in their different levels of involvement in sports activity? This is an element on which we allow ourselves to draw your attention now, because it seems to us that it must necessarily be resolved in the law, taking advantage that thirty-two years later it is worth making the best law possible. The Parliamentary Association for the Defence of Animal Rights has also addressed us, like many other groups, I believe that the whole of the parliamentary groups, to highlight something in which you do not fall if you do not tell those affected. As you know, the Civil Code already recognizes animals as sentient beings, although, by the way, it was about time, little discovery! However, only Article 9 makes a very general reference to the protection of animals in sports practice, so it seems to us that this is an issue that needs to be deepened. It is necessary to broaden the general framework defined by the law today to make it clear that the participation of animals in sport must be carried out under conditions that guarantee their protection and well-being, both in and outside sport. We had a wide meeting with representatives of the General Council for Physical and Sports Education. For those of us who have had to do with college medical activity for a long time there is one thing that is clear, and that is that public law corporations linked to different sectors must always have something to say and must have an element of participation, which we believe should be considered. There is a particularly well-documented set of amendments by people who represent no more or less than those with university degrees in Physical Activity and Sport Sciences, approximately 64,000 in Spain. Different essential aspects are raised, although perhaps some should be the subject of other laws, we will not say no, but they should be placed on the table. And which professionals are really qualified to provide sports services? This is something like the question of intrusiveness, although in other professions it is more evident, because, obviously, sportsmen are misguided by people with a non-deep knowledge of the activity or without an unregulated training can become a problem for people who practice sports. The Higher Sports Council only establishes competence over sports technicians, and yet it is necessary to understand that there are more professional sectors affecting sports activity and, in our opinion, it is necessary that these professionals are protected and recognized by law. There is a phenomenon that is usually attended, especially at major sporting events, which is that of volunteers. Volunteering plays a very important role in this and other social activities, and of course it does not have sufficient consideration at the current stage of this preliminary draft law, but we believe it is necessary to establish clearly its functions and, why not, its rights and duties. In short, we believe it is worthwhile to take another look at this preliminary draft law. This is an activity that has a decisive influence on people's lives and we consider that their regulation has a wide margin of improvement, which is what we want to move from our group. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u33	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u34	Thank you, President. Good morning, egun on. I will start with the positive, starting with something like this, because we really think it is positive that the Spanish Government intends to develop a framework for the promotion of physical activity and sport that has the prospect of including disability and effective equality between men and women. But that's not what we're talking about today. What we are dealing with today is the amendment to the whole presented, because once again we are faced with what seems to be already an inevitable factor in this Congress of Deputies, the invasion of competences of the autonomous communities practically in every law that is put into effect. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, advisors, ministers, members of the government, indeed and please, could you advise all ministries to ensure that from the very moment a law is put to work, the powers transferred to the autonomous communities are taken into account and drafted in accordance with what needs to be done? If it is not done by consistency, let it be done, at least by practicality, because so we would avoid many problems from the beginning. This law of sport is not even a pale reflection of the discourse of plurinational Spain, which you claim to recognize but which you do not do in this regulation applied to the administration of sport. We can understand that Spain wants to represent and express its singularity also through sport, but the Government, taking into account its speeches, so many times expressed in this House, should take into account that singularity is shaped by the plurality of its nations and nationalities. This differential fact should be reflected in this new law, as they do in other European states. For example, the Scottish reality is captured within the British sporting fact. And there are more examples where the representativeness of the own selections has a letter of nature, such as the selection of Wales or that of Northern Ireland. They are fortunate to be able to act within a country in which it is admitted naturally that there are different social realities, different cultural realities. If these arguments do not serve you, ladies and gentlemen, look at it from the perspective, with which I would like to give you an understanding of the multi-national reality of the Spanish State. If we take into account the international relevance of sporting events, this law should be a good opportunity to demonstrate to the whole world the plurinationality that identifies the Spanish State, also in sport, and should be done, in addition to the incorporation of Olympic values in the articulation of this law, also as a representation of the different cultural realities. It is a representation that is materialized through the federations, the federative model, but what we see is that the normative framework that structures this federative framework totally lacks flexibility in this law and does not accommodate the singularity of the autonomous federations. This law does not take into account nor does it even recognize a social demand that in Euskal Herria or Catalonia or Galicia has been a constant throughout the last few years, as is the demand of the national teams, in our case the demand of the Basque teams, in various sports. It is a claim that I remind you that it arises from society and is supported not only by the population, but by the vast majority of Basque and Basque athletes. But not only is this law not open to all this, but there is something worse, and it is that it closes the door even further to the possibility of giving way to this social demand, because the line that draws the lack of normative predictability that is imposed in this law entails a decentralization of the autonomous federations. Recentralizing them and, yes, Mr.Iceta, he does so in the proposal for single agreements and he does so in the eleventh additional provision. For these questions of undeniable weight, for this continued and constant desire that inspires them to forget the autonomous reality and the competences that belong to the autonomous communities, for this constant slide towards decentralization is why we will vote in favour of the amendment to the whole that the Republican Group has tabled. For this reason and because we join in the majority demand of our society, of our athletes and of our athletes that we can compete with a Basque selection. In this too, ladies and gentlemen, we must learn to play differently. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u35	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. It is quite significant that the turn against this bill has been defended by the People's Party. It seems to me that either a faithful squire has been sought or the squire has volunteered to defend the cause because the Government somehow considers that it does not defend it in a timely manner. In any case, when it comes to the things we all know, there is no problem in defending each other. The purpose of the draft Sports Act, as set out in article 1, is to establish the legal framework for physical activity and sport, in accordance with article 43.3 of the Spanish Constitution and within the framework of the competences of the General Administration of the State. We all know the sentences, we all know what the Constitution says, article 149, etc. What happens is that you assume, automatically, that it is the General Administration of the State that has to fulfil that function which is said to be their responsibility to protect and, therefore, do not understand that the Autonomous Communities, on the basis of their competences, are also a State. In that sense, we can take many turns and we can read and we can articulate, but what is said is already said. Those who have tabled the amendment as a whole and we, who are going to defend it, that is, that we are going to support it, we understand the same thing, we have done the same reading of this bill. The Constitution itself did not reserve any competence in the field of sport to the State, but, by virtue of article 148.119.a, placed such competence exclusively in the autonomous communities. The same competition is defined in similar terms in paragraph 43.3 above, concerning the promotion of sport and the adequacy of leisure. It is clear in the case of the Euskadi Autonomy Statute, within the constitutional bloc, since article 10.36 states that it has exclusive competence in sport and leisure. In general terms, the draft Sports Act refers - textually - to respect for autonomous competences and for the Basque framework for decision-making in the field of sport, at least in its territorial sphere and as it corresponds to a decentralized State, but there are a number of aspects contained in the draft that need to be clarified in order to avoid state interferences in the area of exclusive autonomous competences, interferences that, de facto, are given. In this sense, it is repeated throughout the text of the Draft Law on Sport that from the administration of the State - learn this verb well - are coordinated or can be coordinated actions related to the sport or with a sports activity that affect the autonomic sphere or develop in it. They use 'coordinate with' and I think it's not right, because it's 'coordinate with'. That of coordinating with the autonomous communities is something that you want it to look like one thing, but then, in fact, it is another. It is coordinating autonomy, autonomous communities, because coordination is a synonym for leadership. It therefore directs a matter whose original and primordial competence is autonomous and the State has been recognized by the Constitutional Court to intervene in it, rather than on a specific competition title, on an argument contained in a decision of the High Court. The constant reference to state coordination that is reflected throughout the text, to the extent that state intervention is supported fundamentally, as we said in 43, which links all public authorities, implies a certain power of leadership by the coordinator, as we said. In this sense, this power can be extended in terms of coordination towards areas of exclusive autonomous competence. But we don't want anyone to coordinate us. It should be noted that they also use an element, a new tool, which I say is the great invention of recent years, the sectoral conference. It must be the panacea of the sectoral conference, the solution of all the elements that could at one time generate the idea that this is autonomous competence. All of a sudden, we became assemblies and decided at the sectoral conference that we met by majorities, regardless of whether or not each of the autonomies had competence in this matter. Well, look, no. It is worth highlighting the role and powers that the draft law confers on the sectoral conference, given that some of them could have the effect of violating or, at least, affecting autonomous competence in sport and that, through the intervention of the sectoral conference, common and uniform criteria could be laid down in a matter that falls within the competence of the autonomous communities. But there are more things. Some of them have been repeated and others I will raise. Mr Iceta, point 11 of the agreement and the parliamentary commitment signed by the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party seems to open up channels to promote the international representation of Euskadi in sport and culture, which Mr Merino has created for him. I agree. In this law none of that appears, none of that is contemplated. I hope that you will fulfil your commitment and that this law, when accepting the amendments, will contemplate that commitment, that desire which has often been clearly expressed not only from a political perspective, but from the Basque sport itself, from the federations themselves, from the sportsmen themselves. Because you have said a word that looks very good, and it is that sport must serve to unite and not to separate. And what do you say you force me to be united? Is that more democratic? Is it better? Or are you afraid someone will say they don't want to go? Because Article 62 obliges athletes to go to the appointments of the selection and Article 98 considers it a very serious infringement to disobey. You must be very afraid that someone will say that they do not want to go to the selection - I say - for it to be considered a very serious infringement. In what regime do we live so that someone is forced to go to the selection and if it is not considered a very serious violation? What sports law is it? Finally - I have only fifty seconds left - there is also a section on school sport. You say that the Higher Sports Council sets the criteria for school sport, but it is that school sport is transferred - in this case to Euskadi - and it is the deputies who manage and carry the matter of sport and education. Look where there are two totally transferred themes. And now we say that here the Higher Sports Council has capacity? Look, we believe that our support for the amendment is logical and necessary. Now, I know you already have the partner so that this does not come out, but I hope that the amendments can be made more flexible. We have tabled in the amendments everything I have said here, and I hope that they will be much more flexible than they have been when drafting this law so far, which, of course, does not include commitments to begin with. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u37	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u38	Thank you very much. He has made the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana reference here to the Catalan countries. In case there is a geographer looking for them, they are between Narnia, Pituphilandia and under Mordor; I say this in case they are lost looking for them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, when I saw that you were presenting an amendment to the whole I recognize that I was deluded, because I am very fond of science fiction, even that of series B - it would be the case today - and I thought I was going to find a text like the one you prepared for the historical memory, which went from an alternative version of the Rif war to Wifredo the Velloso. This Ukrainian genre, to which we are accustomed and which has a deep tradition in nationalism, is very entertaining. But suddenly I see that you have abandoned literary creation and that you come without alternative text. What a disappointment. Esquerra considers that sport does not need a law and does not even propose an alternative text. I had a second disappointment with you. I recognize that, when I began reading your amendment, the few paragraphs I had tears in my eyes. Mr de Esquerra Republicana, to argue this amendment in its entirety, was based on a very concrete institution. They were not based on a secret fact since 1711 that only they know and that unearthed the Institute of New History on a night of opiate inspiration. No, no, They were not based on a secret diary in an Andorran abbey, lost among Jordi Pujol's notes. Neither. They were not even based on a lost note among the pages of the original Quixote, which, as everyone knows, is in Catalan. No, no, The gentlemen of Esquerra were based - hold on - on the Constitutional Court of Spain At this moment, Mr Rufián, I was thrilled by you, I have to admit. [[laughs]] I went out to tell my family and called my friends to tell them that Esquerra was quoting the Constitutional Court as the authority to amend it as a whole. When I pictured them already making T-shirts to claim the Supreme Court, as a dagger in my heart felt me continuing to read your amendment, because you quoted the Constitutional Court by completely misrepresenting everything that refers to article 149.1,1.a And it can't be interpreted, you said. They take very specific paragraphs from the Constitutional Court. But you read the Constitutional Court's rulings as the great Antonio Ozores, and I explain myself. A paragraph such as that in judgment 61/1997, which they cite several times, says - I am sorry - that a basic regulation guaranteeing equality does belong entirely and exclusively to the State. And this you read as follows: a basic regulation that guarantees... [[continues his intervention masculinating the words]] And then they went to something else, skipping those paragraphs that didn't interest them. They did exactly the same with Act No. 30/1987, of which the paragraphs which concern them but which are obvious, for example, some such as this one, which says - I say quotes - could not be concluded, but the State could regulate the basic conditions which guarantee equal treatment for all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights - close quotes -. This is what this law does. I guess when someone from Esquerra said in the group, when they met for this, that the state does have competence to guarantee equal treatment to all Spaniards in exercise of their rights there were tense looks and they said: it marks that whole part. In other words, Esquerra has done with the ruling of the Constitutional Court the same thing he does with history, an urban legend, a mythological text. What has sport done in history? And with this I want you to reflect on all the nationalist parties that have defended this law here. What was sport for? From classical Greece, the Olympic Games already meant the opening of a sacred peace, which was known as the Olympic truce: any conflict in the interest of sport was paralyzed; the city of Olympia was neutral territory; a multitude of peace treaties were reached in the city of Olympia; even Licurgo, the Spartan King, who liked more a battle than we could hire advisers, signed the first Olympic truce in history. Do you know when it was the last time an Olympic truce was urged? In the Balkan War, in 1991, when the International Olympic Committee urged all countries to an Olympic truce. Do you know, gentlemen of the Republican Left, why the Olympic Games asked the IOC for an Olympic truce in the 1991 Balkan war? For those of Barcelona 92. Sport, which has been able to unite the world by stopping wars, is not able to get Esquerra and the other nationalist parties not to mix their secessionist anxieties here. Nationalism has always seen sport as a tool of conflict. What I say below - understand it well - is not put on the same level of equality, nor much less, than what you propose, but I want to argue how evil has always tried to use sport in its favor. We saw it, for example, with Hitler in the Munich Games, who tried to impose his racial theses on the Aryan race - it has nothing to do with what you pose, but I want to make a historical tour of how the great madmen of history have used sport as well - and Jesse Owens humiliated it. Look, the communist dictatorship of the GDR hormone and destroyed the lives of sportsmen for trying to win sporting events. Putin doped up entire delegations of sportsmen. In the end, sport was imposed and each of these attempts was absolutely ridiculous. Think of the 1914 Christmas truce between Germans and British. He had as protagonist a football game - some say several - around the city of Ypres. I ask you, Mr de Esquerra, to abandon the narcissism of the difference; to withdraw this amendment which makes no sense, because sport has no borders and when it is imposed, to put it down; to stop blowing up the joint candidacy, by the way, of Catalonia and Aragon for the Winter Olympics, and to take advantage of this process for the same thing that we are going to do in Citizens, to expand equality. [[applause]] Minister, I am already making the amendments that we would like you to take into account: expanding equality, improving infrastructure, volunteering, sponsorship, the international representation of Spanish sport... If you listen to the lord of the PNV and give selections to each nationalist party, we will descend from the law, also announce it to you. We will vote against this amendment. The territory is no more important than the sportsmen. Races, creeds and languages, differences, stay out of competition. Sport is equality and effort. Don't pervert it too. Look at the past, admire what sport has achieved and withdraw this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u39	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we agree with Esquerra and the applicants to denounce the centralism of the text. Not by chance do the People's and Citizens' Party come out here to defend it; it lacks VOX, it also lacks Putin, but it's already out. We can share the orientation of many of the policies envisaged, yes, but not that competences that belong to the autonomous communities, in our case in Galicia, for having exclusive competence in sport, and to do so by limiting their capacity for development in this area. But beyond this, I cannot let go today of the opportunity to refer to a fundamental issue, a right that the State denies to nations like Galicia and that this law remains unresolved, the question of national sports selections. In this 2022 one hundred years of the gestation of the first absolute selection of Galician football, which, after different stages, was recovered in the year 2005. In 2007, women were formed, but both are unable to participate in official competitions representing Galicia. The same is true of other sports and sports modes, including those in which we are a power, such as triathlon, sailing or canoeing, with the only exception, yes, of Gaelic football, in which the national selections of Galicia male and female participate in international competitions, certainly with great success both in the European games and in the world. Today we demand the recognition of the Galician sports teams, as the Via Galega platform is doing, and the right to compete in all areas under our flag 'Galiza, a nation, a selection'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u41	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u42	[[Start your speech in Valencian.-Applause]] The project has positive aspects. I have been a teacher of Physical Education and it seems to me important that the right to sports practice be recognized and that sport and physical activity are considered essential activities. It is also committed to the equality and inclusion of women, the LGTB collective and persons with disabilities. However, I agree with Esquerra and other spokespersons that there is a competitive invasion. It is worrying, and we therefore announce our vote in favour of this amendment as a whole. The project notes the failure to force clubs to become anonymous sports companies, which is why it is corrected, because it has not guaranteed their economic solvency and has in many cases served to depersonalize clubs, to lose many signs of identity and to the emergence of financial sharks with interests often alienated from the interests of the club or amateurs, as well as to the neoliberal privatization of social entities. That is why since Compromís we want to improve the text, so that you can protect the hobbies, democratise the clubs and bring the government closer to their hobbies, in line with Europe's trend. As a Valencian, a couple of questions, and it's over. We want to modify the current regulations to allow the recognition of the Valencian driver as a sport and we want to recognize once and for all the Levante Unión Deportiva the Cup of Free-Trofe Spain of the President of the Republic, won in 1937 and organized by legitimate and constitutional Spain. It's a historic debt to this club and the Valencians. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u43	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u44	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have spent more than twenty-five years in sports journalism, so, if I may, I am going to use a football simile. If this law were a football player and the invasions of the competition ground will be sanctioned with a red card, this player would be expelled in minute one. The amendment to the whole of Esquerra is a return, and it is clear, because this text must be sent back to the wardrobe. It would be naif to ask us now and here, after so much theft of ball with lack on the part of the state, for the fair play. In other bills we are seeing it. Or will they respect the waste canon, as we're asking? I'm still with the soccer simile. This law of sport has a continuum of faults, some with the feet ahead, against the competence in sport of the autonomous communities, exclusive, by the way, according to the Constitutional. We are talking about the 134.1 of the statute of autonomy, which determines that Catalonia can, for example, organize, order, regulate and plan everything that has to do with practice... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u45	One second, Your Honor. [[Pause]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u46	You see, I was talking about football and it looks like the game has two parts. Finally, he said that we are talking about the 134.1 of the Statute of Autonomy, which determines that Catalonia can organize, order, regulate and plan everything that has to do with practice or sporting events. It has given them the same thing that the Constitutional Court will arbitrate against the Government on numerous occasions, not out of pleasure, but because the Constitution has been so blatantly missed that there is no BAR to fix it, among other things, because they say they want to respect the autonomous competences without clearly explaining what you are supposed to be competent in. What is state sport beyond the representation of Spanish selections, for example? What sport is within what the Constitutional Court considers to be supra-autonomic action? They seem to expect us to play the game on a playing field with no marked lines and not to discuss the game with them. So, in order to defend Catalonia's competences, it is up to us to draw the lines, for the moment red. They have presented a text that, in addition to re-centralizing competences - which denounces the amendment to the whole - denies Catalonia the ability, for example, to organize international competitions, if not under the supervision of the state agencies, or to participate in international competitions with Catalan selections, not even in the case of events or competitions in which the Spanish selection does not participate. I mean, if I don't play, we punch the ball. Surely in the end we will have to ask for arbitration again, we will have to go back to the VAR of the Constitutional Court, because, being realistic, the votes of this House will let them continue playing. That is true, the explanatory statement is equipped with values of sport and equality, but we already have many parties in this House to know that, when it comes to subtracting competences, you have numerical superiority, we have already seen it. But - and this is not the first time I say it; yesterday I did it celebrating my first year as a Member - there are defeats that make us stronger... Today Esquerra puts on a ball, we finish it and, although this goal is not going to rise to the score... [[pronounce words in Catalan]] [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] Make a law that respects the competences of the autonomous communities; provide, for example, the EUR 300 million of European funds for the digitisation of sport or the ecological transformation of the facilities; re-enact the autonomous communities as managers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u47	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u48	Play clean and pass the ball. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u50	Good morning, Mr. President; good morning, Mr. Iceta. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, because this amendment does not talk about sport, it does not talk about disagreements in the structure proposed, it does not talk about how to enhance sport or how to guarantee equal opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, we are clear about your anger, but do you really consider this amendment to the whole Sports Act necessary? Do you really prefer that a sports law of thirty-two years ago, totally useless, totally out of date, should remain in force? Because if this amendment succeeds, there may not be a new law on sport in this legislature. The reasons they argue are very clear; literally, it can affect the competences of the Generalitat, it can affect local autonomy in the management and regulation of sports facilities and it can be an excess of the framework established by the legal regime of the public sector. But they should consider that, apart from what was possible, they could, through the submission of appropriate amendments, reverse any dysfunction or possible invasion of autonomous competences, because in defending our competences they will also find us pushing. Our parliamentary group believes that sport deserves an updated law to the new times and that it must be done in this legislature, that sport cannot remain anchored in the 1990s. The pandemic has demonstrated the unrelenting need for recognition of the right to physical activity and sport as an essential activity, not only for physical health, but also for mental health, a disease that is wreaking havoc on our young people. We cannot continue with patriarchal sports structures, in which it is almost impossible for women to be represented reasonably, no longer equally, by women. This is not the best law possible, but it is a basis for modernization which undoubtedly the contributions of the parliamentary groups during the presentation will improve. You transcribe in the explanatory statement what the bill seeks to promote: equality and inclusion at all levels. This law also guarantees the presence of women in the governing bodies, because, although fascist mobs deny it, there is no real equality; it eliminates discrimination by amending the Act against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport; it considers sport inclusive and programmes that develop it of general interest; it seeks to provide security and stability to athletes, recognizing rights and obligations, and for the first time opens a way to personal stability after the end of sports life. It is a law that reverses errors, opening up participation in official professional competitions at the state level to clubs, expanding the previous model that was not successful at all; modernizing the model of sports entities, and introducing into the world of sport, albeit lightly, the ecological transition and a stake in digital innovation. But of all this, of how to improve it, of how to change it, this amendment does not speak to the whole of it, nor is it what has been discussed here. We are going to vote no to the amendment as a whole because its intention is not to propose other structures or'models, but, as Mr Matutes said last week, sometimes the competitive invasion is invoked to throw balls out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u51	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Lomana Gutiérrez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u52	President, ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Parliamentary Group has tabled a full amendment to the draft Sports Law, adopted on 17 December 2021 by this Social Communist Government in the Council of Ministers, and it does so because it considers that the draft is unconstitutional. It is surprising that the ultra-independenceist and republican left appeals to our Constitution, which they openly deny and which they claimed only four months ago that it was delegitimized; that is, that the Constitution is good for them and that they use it for what they are interested in and always for their own benefit. [[Applauds]] My group, Mr VOX, would like to express its opposition to this amendment as a whole because it is simply a return amendment and does not propose alternatives. We believe that a new law on sport is necessary, a modern, renewed and advanced law that replaces the current one of 1990. We believe that the regulatory framework for sport needs to be updated, that the sporting legal system needs to be provided with basic tools to meet the challenges of the coming decades and that there is a need for comprehensive and appropriate regulation to meet the needs of the current sport. This does not mean that we share the full content of the project, with which we are very critical, and this is reflected in our partial amendments to its articulation, but we believe in the need for a new law, a law of consensus, a law equal to what Spanish sport deserves that so many glories have given our Spanish nation. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] The Republican Parliamentary Group does not offer alternatives simply because it has no interest in Spanish sport. It is based on its amendment that autonomous competence in sport is invaded. They even dare to include in their consideration of unconstitutional the Sectoral Conference on Sport. They may not know that it has existed since 2008 under the name of the Interterritorial Conference on Sport and the role of coordination between the State and the Autonomous Communities. And, by the way, to this day there is no complaint about such a conference by this ultra-left, independentist and republican formation. It is possible that the Republican Parliamentary Group does not want coordination between the State and the autonomous communities in this area, which is why they have not said anything in the last fourteen years of the existence of this body. In short, accepting the fundamental theses of the Republican Parliamentary Group would mean recognizing that the Spanish State lacks the power to legislate in the field of sports, which is what they would like, but unfortunately for them this debate was closed long ago by the Constitutional Court. Although there have been a number of rulings by the Constitutional Court in this area, I can only cite three rulings. The first, of 1986, of 10 January. The Constitutional Court held that the statutory attribution of exclusive competence in sport to the autonomous communities must, on the one hand, connect with the autonomous competences and, on the other, with the general interests of the Spanish sport as a whole, whose defence and promotion will then be the responsibility of the State. This ruling resolved precisely a conflict between the Generalitat de Catalunya and the possible Catalan federal participation in international competitions when the corresponding Spanish sports federation did not appear. Here the Constitutional Court emphasized that the possible administrative intervention cannot be the responsibility of the authorities of the autonomous community, since there are interests that are characteristic of the Spanish federated sport as a whole. Second judgment, 8/2012, of 18 April. The High Court stated that even the powers which have been defined as exclusive to the autonomous communities must be exercised with respect to the powers which may fall to the State in accordance with the principle of territorial competences as something implicit in the system of autonomy itself. And he added that the very polyhedral reality of sports matter in its different facets - health, education, culture, research, physical education, regulated professions or commercial legislation - necessarily determines the concurrence of the various public administrations: state, autonomous and local. Moreover, in some cases it requires a comprehensive and non-fragmented approach because it involves actions in which the subject matter of sport is intertwined with another subject that is competently attributed to the State, such as, for example, the special link between sport and health. Finally, in judgement 16/1996 of 1 February - three Republicans - the Constitutional Court declared that the State has jurisdiction over certain matters, particularly education and culture, which may also affect sport. All this, without prejudice to the specific powers conferred on the State by Law 10/1990 on Sport. He added that the said law was adopted in order to manage the sport in accordance with the competences of the State administration and coordination with the autonomous communities and, where appropriate, with local corporations which could directly and manifestly affect the general interests of the sport at the national level. The Constitutional Court recalled that this law was not the subject of any criticism by any autonomous community, nor was its predecessor, Law 13/1980 of 31 March. In conclusion - and with this we close our argument of opposition to the amendment to the entire Republican Group - the Constitutional Court has made it more than clear that the exercise of the powers assumed as exclusive by the autonomous communities in their respective statutes of autonomy limits the exercise of the powers of the State. From my parliamentary group, VOX, we will always propose policies of national unity, because all Spaniards have the same rights and we must also have them in sport and because it is what Spanish sport needs and deserves, against all those who want to divide us continuously, in search of their own economic and partisan interest, very proper to this social communist government and its independent and bi-dutar partners. That is why we are going to say openly to this amendment as a whole: No. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u53	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, Mr. Secretary of State, Chairman of the Higher Sports Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the potential of sport is unlimited. Its universal language and its ability to unite in diversity make it a powerful lever for the transmission of messages of values and principles based on tolerance, respect and coexistence in peace. Therefore, allow me to express my first words of support and solidarity with all sports people in Ukraine, especially with LGBTI people, persons with disabilities and Ukrainian sports women, who are under threat of their rights and freedoms. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment to the entire Republican Left to return the draft Sports Act, on the grounds that competences are being invaded. In the Socialist Group we do not share the substance of this amendment, so we will vote against it for the following reasons: firstly, because we consider it disproportionate and inappropriate at the moment and, secondly, because this bill is passed on the basis of Article 43.3 of the Constitution, respecting the autonomous powers on the basis of that text. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, this parliamentary group, this party, always respect the rules of the game, always respect the rules of the democratic game, always respect the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, Mr Alvarez, you have passed away and have been wrong this morning. I'm not going to fall into your provocations, into the little traps you tried to set up this morning, but I am going to tell you a couple of things. I will tell you that the Socialists do not wear a face; the Socialists go face-to-face and head-to-face and do not use sport for failed aspirations. [[applause]] But what is more, Mr Alvarez, I will tell you that neither in sport nor in politics is there room for insult and disrespect that you have poured on a minister who carries as a flag the defense of democratic coexistence in peace this morning. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, with the new Sports Act, we are facing a historic opportunity, a country opportunity, to unite our forces to improve the lives of sports people and of Spanish society as a whole. It is a text that responds to the demands of the entire sport ecosystem. They have been many years of dialogue and also of participation; dialogue with all parliamentary groups, in Congress, in the Senate; dialogue with all sports federations, with clubs, with sports entities; dialogue with sports people, with their associations and unions, and dialogue with public administrations as well. Ladies and gentlemen, dialogue and participation, and also consensus. Many parliamentary initiatives that have been debated and approved in this House today are reflected in this draft Sports Act, a bill that we want to improve, no doubt, and we want to improve, in the parliamentary process, with all parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly looking at a good text, thanks to different governments and, above all, thanks to the team of the Higher Sports Council that is accompanying us today. We are facing a great opportunity to modernise our sport model and I would like to highlight some of the issues, some of the most important developments. Look, sport is recognized as a right and an essential activity; it is committed to territorial cohesion; it eliminates all kinds of inequalities; it regulates the promotion of inclusive sport and sport by persons with disabilities; it fights against LGBTphobia; it ensures that the media treatment of women athletes is free of cosification and free of sexist stereotypes. [[Applauds]] But what's more, look, who can be against in this House for plans to reconcile and co-responsibility with measures to protect motherhood and breastfeeding? Who can be against the promotion of equal prizes for men and women sportsmen? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight something very important and novel: the women who compete with their selections, with this law, will charge the same as their colleagues. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from my group we will not tire out; we will continue to work through dialogue and agreements to adopt the best sport law, because, as you know, great progress always comes from the hands of great consensus. We are all aware that we live in very difficult times, and sport can create nice spaces for the encounter and also for reunions. Let's put everything on our side for two things: one, to make this law a country project that unites us in the difference and, two, to return to sport, and especially to sports people, what they have given to our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u56	We now turn to the agenda item on the amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposed law amending the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion, adopted by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, to establish and regulate cognitive accessibility and its conditions of demand and application. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u57	Good morning again. Egun on. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the great merit of this law is certainly something as simple as trying to make it easy: to identify and give content to cognitive accessibility. To give substance to the different facets of universal accessibility - which are physics, sensory and cognitive - is intended to give effect to the right of people who suffer from some type of cognitive limitation to be able to access a mechanism as easy as necessary, that is to be able to understand things, since cognitive accessibility is aimed at that, to be a tool that allows those who suffer from some kind of intellectual disability - but also those who do not - to access tools that facilitate their understanding of the physical environment and the information they receive. Cognitive accessibility, identified as a substantive right, must therefore become the key to gaining access to other rights, and that is why the importance of this initiative lies in the fact that cognitive accessibility can become the key from which the person suffering from any type of limitation can try to realize his rights and, therefore, demand from both the public and private authorities, individuals, measures that allow him access to information and knowledge as a precondition for the possibility of realizing his rights. That is, as a requirement without which to preach equality of opportunity, it would be nothing more than an exercise in rhetoric rather than justice. Therefore, tools such as easy reading, alternative and augmentive communication systems, pictograms and other multiplicity of human and technological media become tools that serve that fundamental purpose. In a world where it is increasingly difficult to perceive the reality of reality and where falsehoods or half truths are part of the appearance of normality, where a fake is a fake disguised to lead to the deception of the senses, to facilitate access to knowledge - I would say that to all individuals, but in particular to those who have some kind of difficulty - it is simply to offer a scenario of equal opportunities. We must therefore understand that today, after a long journey - a journey, I would say - this proposal for a law amending the consolidated text of the general law on the rights of persons with disabilities to regulate cognitive accessibility as a substantive facet of the right to universal accessibility is, above all, the most appropriate formula for implementing the right of everyone to equal access to all rights and services. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not simply a rhetorical exercise, let us not turn it into a mere rhetorical exercise. On the basis of its approval, the challenge of recognizing the right to cognitive accessibility is to make it effective, i.e. to have economic means to enforce the right, which implies a greater involvement of all public administrations, but also of the legislator, in considering this objective among the priorities of public expenditure. I intended to add - and I am finalizing - that it was also a reason for satisfaction to do so unanimously, since consensus has been the guiding criterion for the discussions and their adoption to date. I suppose that will be the case at the end, but it does happen, however - and I would like to warn you - that after having passed any debate and arrived at this time of the validation in Congress of the amendments incorporated by the Senate, he noted with displeasure some attempt by the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, in order to amend that text and with regard to amendments incorporated on the proposal of my group precisely in the competition field. As has already happened in the Senate and before, in the relevant Committee of Congress, we will vote in favour of the proposed text in its entirety, not without first highlighting the attitude of the PP, who even voted in favour of some of our amendments in the Senate to try now to question them in a separate vote, thus obtaining something undesirable in that Committee, which is to break the tone of confidence and consensus that has prevailed so far on this issue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finalizing a legislative process to pass a law that promoted Citizens in the Senate, a law that entails recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities. Just as we were the liberals who promoted the prohibition of forced sterilization of persons with disabilities or who have passed the law in this Congress to support patients with ALS and their families, today we are faced with an advance in the recognition of the rights of one of the most vulnerable social groups in our society. Every time this House passes a historic law, Citizens are on the right side of history, either as a promoter of the initiative, or as a member of the consensus. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is a new day to do much better for our country, an egalitarian country, a more conducive country for its citizens to develop the life project they want, without barriers of any kind. Today we are joined in this Chamber by representatives of civil society whom I would like to greet. Representatives of CERMI and representatives of the other social entities of the disability movement, thank you very much for your excellent work. I would also like to express my thanks to Comrade Tomás Marcos, who started this great journey in the Senate over two years ago. We're talking about cognitive accessibility. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to read you the definition that CERMI establishes for this term: It is the characteristic of the environments, processes, activities, goods, products, services, objects instruments, tools and devices that allow easy understanding and communication. And now I'm going to read your adaptation to easy reading: Characteristic that has things, spaces or texts that makes all people understand them. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the things we are looking for with this initiative is to allow that part of the population that feels excluded, for example, from the political activity that we do here because of its intellectual or psychosocial disability or 'by any kind of disorder, to feel involved, making them reach accessibility. In short, it is about making a world easier to understand. When we talk about accessibility, we have to bear in mind that we are referring to a precondition for persons with disabilities to be able to live independently and participate fully in society on an equal footing. Many times, when we talk about barriers, we think about setting up ramps for those who need to travel with a wheelchair or translating a public discourse into sign language; however, we need to be aware that there are many other barriers that prevent many people from understanding a text or being orientated in a city. In some ways, what we are doing if we do not remove these barriers is to prevent them from exercising their right to equality. This initiative takes another step in this direction and makes it clear that cognitive accessibility is included in universal accessibility. In practice, we refer to the need to address the equal treatment and opportunities of persons with intellectual disabilities, psychosocial disabilities or developmental disorders such as autism. If a person cannot understand a letter from the bank, a notification from the court, a medical report, travel directions, cannot understand a film, an election program, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, is his right to information being respected? Is your right to social participation being respected? Is your right to equality being respected? That's why we talk about cognitive accessibility as a key right, because it allows these people to participate autonomously in our society. It is a necessary condition to have this right recognized, and also possible in the practical exercise, in order to exercise their right to health, their right to employment, their right to education, their right to the use of goods and services. Therefore, today we are faced with an initiative that can greatly, immensely, improve our society, and that is that the World Health Organization already tells us that one in three people need cognitive accessibility in their day-to-day lives. It also seeks to establish or adapt our legislation to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, as well as the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the observations made by its committee to the Spanish State. I think we all agree that if a person has problems of understanding or understanding, he or she has the right to receive information through systems that favor it, such as easy reading, such as augmentive systems or, for example, pictograms. In an advanced democracy, ladies and gentlemen, we must demonstrate social progress through the full exercise of the citizenship of all people. If we really do not solve this issue, we are attacking the dignity of the people who suffer from this disease, these health problems that prevent them from understanding. I therefore believe that it is important to develop this progress; it must be able to exercise its right to participation in all areas of society. That is inclusion; the opposite is exclusion, it is leaving a part of our society out, which I think makes us worse as a country. Indirectly, what we do is that a country is discriminating against a part of its society. For this reason, those who believe in progress in the society of vulnerable groups welcome the promotion of this progress as a good change in the lives of people with intellectual, psychosocial or developmental disabilities, but this will also benefit people with minimum literacy levels, older people, people who do not sufficiently know the official languages. This initiative is not going to occupy any television news, ladies and gentlemen, but really when someone believes in politics as a transformative and improving instrument of our society he can be proud to lead such initiatives in this House. I think we need to work together again, we need to work together again, and we need to avoid any kind of action that breaks equality, progress in rights in this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u60	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u61	I therefore hope that everyone will support this initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u62	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to thank the representatives of the institutions today for their assistance in this Chamber, in a vote of no doubt important, but equally important is the long journey that has taken in the course of this initiative. Just as it is necessary to thank the presence of the representatives of the entities in the Chamber, it is also necessary to thank - it created - the consensus, the agreement, the form of work that this initiative has had throughout its parliamentary history. These are, without a doubt, those issues that highlight that politics is possible to advance in improving the living conditions of these people, of those who live with us, and therefore it is of those political initiatives that it is worthwhile to put into value as a policy in capital letters, as a policy to advance in equality of rights. This path, this long journey, is dated in October 2017. Entities such as CERMI or Full Inclusion already pointed out in their initiatives the need to regulate by law is cognitive accessibility. Deputy Giménez of Citizens pointed out earlier the classic definition of cognitive accessibility and its conversion into an easy way of reading. This is one of the instruments to be appealed to. There are very complicated issues that many people need to translate or adapt to their abilities and possibilities. Therefore, the existence of a law that recognizes the need to make this access easy is more than necessary. And you might wonder what people we're talking about. For we are talking about people with intellectual disabilities, people with cerebral palsy, people with mental health problems, people with reading difficulties, older people with cognitive impairment. While this list may seem quantitatively not very large or not very concrete, one can set an example that this affects one in three people. There were some examples that I think are very graphic: 268,633 people with intellectual disabilities, as many people as those living in Gijón; 481,544 people with mental health problems, as many people or more than those living in Murcia; eight million six hundred and ten thousand older people, who are practically more people than those living in Andalusia. Therefore, the importance of passing this law is also the quantitative importance of affecting one in three people in our environment and the need for people to take these cognitive accessibility measures. This is the way to ensure that all these people have the right conditions to fulfil their rights and, therefore, in this line of work, support and equal opportunities for persons with disabilities, PeCAT of course will contribute to making a better society for all persons with disabilities. And finally, in this area, today comes to us what corresponds to the amendments that come from the Senate... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u64	One second, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u65	He said that today we come here, after this long journey, from this previous reflection, the amendments coming from the Senate, with some improvements in the preamble, such as the fact that we expressly mention other systems, means, formats or techniques that help to materialize this cognitive accessibility, or some technical improvements, such as references to articles or references to the current ministerial structure, with which, for our part, we see no problem in the Senate amendments to vote for them favorably and that this law can definitely appear already published and that it will come into force as soon as possible. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the PeCAT vote in this law and in the amendments that come from the Senate is going to be favourable, wishing, yes, that this application and the full integration of cognitive accessibility into our legal system is in force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u66	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There are people who need a third person to interpret this letter in order to know what a court notice says. There are people for whom to carry out a vital and daily question, such as receiving and understanding a health diagnosis, becomes an indescribable hieroglyph. There are people who visit a museum with a terrifying experience due to the absence of pictograms and signs that facilitate their cultural experience. There is accessibility that goes unnoticed even in the regulations themselves and whose ignorance causes people with intellectual developmental disabilities or with mental disorders to often see their participation in society limited. Accessibility is the element that allows persons with disabilities to live on an equal, free, independent basis and to participate fully in all aspects of life, but it is also part of the essential content of rights. Without accessibility there is no satisfaction of the right. We've heard it. How many people need cognitive accessibility? Well, according to WHO, we're talking about one in three people. Accessibility is developed in detail in article 9 of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is also a principle recognized in article 3 that goes through the whole treaty, as is the case with equality and non-discrimination. Cognitive accessibility is the right to understand the information provided by the environment, to master the communication we maintain with it and to be able to easily carry out the activities carried out in it, without any discrimination. What is most difficult for society in general to understand is that cognitive functions must be treated in the same way as the rest. It is understood and accepted - although not yet in its full extent - that if the person cannot walk he must carry a cane, a prosthesis, a wheelchair or have an assistant, and although it has cost, it is also understood that there must be ramps or lifts, but it is still not understood that if the person has difficulty in memorizing or reasoning he must provide environments, comprehensible products and also the products or support staff he needs. Undoubtedly, accessibility, including the removal of barriers - which are not detected in plain sight - has become one of the greatest challenges to be faced in terms of guaranteeing the rights of all people. Therefore, every facility should be provided to enable persons with psychosocial disabilities, including children and adolescents, to mobilize freely in the environment, to make use of services and to have all the resources available to ensure understanding, communication, mobility, comfort and security. We understand that this reform will respond to the concluding observations of the United Nations to the Spanish State on the implementation of the convention, which recommended ensuring that places open to the public or for public use have signage and information in Braille and easy reading, and that human assistance and intermediaries are provided, including guides, readers, professional sign language interpreters to facilitate access to public buildings and services, in particular to persons with intellectual developmental disabilities or mental disorders. We hope that this initiative will help to strengthen the exercise of rights and community participation in greater fullness by a large group of people with disabilities, by removing these invisible barriers that he spoke about, by also transcending this social sector and extending its beneficial and collective effects to other segments of the community, such as older persons, people with low literacy levels or migrants, among others. And we know that with the right to accessibility we open the door to other rights, such as the right to health, the right to culture, the right to education. Our group, the Republican Group, firmly believes in social justice and equal opportunities, so we will support this reform. [[The lady]] We want to thank publicly the tireless work of the third sector entities so that we can arrive here today with the utmost consensus, and thank you for accompanying us today in this Chamber, after the tireless work that you have done. This success is collective, it is consensus-based, and you publicly deserve this thanks. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning. Our group, Unidad Podemos, will vote in favour of the amendments introduced in the Senate to this law that regulates cognitive accessibility. Today's a big day. This law was adopted with a very broad political consensus in response to a persistent demand from civil society. I take this opportunity to greet and thank the people and entities who accompany us here, CERMI and others who have worked hard for this law. [[Applauds]] This law is important, it is a step further in the goal that everyone, whatever his or her personal characteristics, can function autonomously, can own his or her own life. To this end, all environments, services and processes must be universally accessible. This accessibility requirement responds to the paradigm shift in the conception of disability. It is now considered that all people are functionally diverse and that limitations on autonomy and access are not inherent in the person; they are the barriers in the physical, social and communicative environment that are responsible for many people not being able to fully exercise their rights. Universal accessibility, that is, the removal of all possible barriers, must therefore be a principle of organization of any society that is said to be inclusive. It happens that physical barriers to access to spaces and services are often more easily detected, they are more evident. Other barriers are not as recognizable. There has been talk here of the complexity of signage in a public building or the terminology used in information of general interest, which can seriously hinder or impede their understanding by many people. These are the barriers to cognitive accessibility, which are often not taken into account when it comes to ensuring the access of the entire population to a space or service; it is this invisibility and lack of consideration of these cognitive barriers that is attempted to be corrected by this law, which specifies that cognitive accessibility is part of universal accessibility, which ensures wider understanding and communication to a greater number of people and specifies that measures must be taken to remove all barriers and provide for the complementary support necessary to make spaces, services and activities cognitively accessible to the whole population. This law, recognizing that barriers to cognitive accessibility are based on a lower perception and consideration, establishes correction mechanisms such as specific studies on cognitive accessibility, a regulation that develops the basic conditions in this area, a cognitive accessibility plan or the creation of the State Reference Center for Cognitive Accessibility. We are therefore moving forward in the specification and guarantee of this accessibility, not always, as we say, obvious or sufficiently addressed in the standard. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on the rights of persons with disabilities is a good law, which regulated universal accessibility and paved the way for a more inclusive society. The International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities consolidated a new time in the design and response to the demands of functional diversity. For many years, however, there has been a lack of political will to advance the implementation of these laws. This coalition government, this Ministry of Social Rights, among other issues related to educational inclusion, personal autonomy or attention to dependence, has worked hard to address the harmful policies of the People's Party regarding functional diversity in previous years and has promoted very serious progress in public policies that ensure universal accessibility and, more specifically, cognitive accessibility: with the Plan Spain Country Accessible from 2021 to 2023, with an investment of 170 million distributed between the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities to advance especially in cognitive accessibility in public centers and services. Also, with the adoption in 2021 of the decree for the allocation of more than 50 million to the autonomous communities for accessibility in housing. With the II National Plan of Universal Accessibility, currently under development, which envisages concrete measures in each of the axes of cognitive accessibility, and with the creation of the Spanish Cognitive Accessibility Centre, which will be launched shortly, before the summer. In addition, this Ministry of Social Rights has already planned to include these measures provided for in the law in the next aid programme for the study of the Royal Board on Disability. But it is clear that much remains to be done to make our society truly universal in accessibility. This law of regulation of cognitive accessibility represents a step forward in celebrating, but also, ladies and gentlemen, a very serious touch of attention. Even today, transport is not physically accessible. This Congress building still has very serious physical, sensory and cognitive barriers. Our cities are full of barriers because they are designed for cars. There are educational institutions, even today, with barriers to access, and what about barriers to access to banking services for a large part of the population. It is still very common for public administrations and private entities not to detect barriers or, if they do, to implement insufficient or segregating solutions. It serves the approval of this law to make it clear that universal design is required from the beginning and at the root to remove all barriers in all spaces, infrastructures, goods and services. Only then can we talk about a truly inclusive society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Romero Vilches has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in VOX, we are fully committed to the challenge that Spanish society faces of getting as close as possible to a scenario where general accessibility is a universal right. Within this accessibility, one particularly important aspect in which we have an obligation to move forward is, of course, cognitive accessibility. We understand for this the quality that messages of any kind that are displayed in the public or social sphere must meet so that all people, or at least most of them, can understand them easily. It is clear that such cognitive accessibility is key to the effective exercise of certain rights, such as the right to health, the right to education, employment, culture, mobility and even political rights, such as the right to vote. We also see how the scope of cognitive accessibility goes beyond people with disabilities. We live in a very complex world, where social and technological changes are accelerating in a truly dizzying way. This is causing a deep rift between those who have access to information - for example, because of the ability to handle digital or technological tools - and those who have left behind, either because they are of a certain age, because they live in rural or disadvantaged areas or because of some social circumstance, as we say, outside of disability itself. In VOX we welcome the will of consensus that all parties have expressed on an issue that should not be faced and that largely responds to the demands expressed by civil society. [[Applauds]] We are hearing the messages from all parties in this House and, indeed, they all say they are in favour of inclusion and of removing, to the extent possible, the physical or moral barriers that hinder the free development of personality. Who can disagree with this? But I have to remind you that all of you - I insist, all of you - agree on one issue. All of you agree to help people with disabilities, except that they are in the mother's womb, because then all of you are willing to apply the death penalty to them for the simple fact of being in the mother's womb. [[applause]] We must also denounce the fact that in the process of this initiative there has been a real boycott of VOX's proposals, with the undisguised desire to exclude our participation in this legislative process. But, yes, we have been warned as active and passive that we had to join the consensus, the consensus of all of you, in order to guarantee this initiative, a perfect example of hypocrisy and sectarianism, which unfortunately abound in this House. [[applause]] We would have liked to have accepted some of the proposals made by the VOX Parliamentary Group, but here we have heard from this rostrum this morning Mr Ramos Esteban say that VOX must be silenced. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in case you haven't heard, VOX - as bad as it is for all of you - is, today, the third political force, and continues to rise, so the sooner you assume it, the better it will be for everyone. [[Applauds]] With our proposals we tried to improve expressions that pay the toll corresponding to the connoisseurs ideological delusions of the parties progress, which are all you. It may give them the same, but we believe it is important to avoid redundancy and subject language to the rules of linguistic correction that the Royal Spanish Academy marks. Focusing already on a more substantial point of view and talking about issues that should really also be of concern to you, we understand that many of the specific measures imposed on both public and private sector companies can be excessively burdensome. We cannot forget the context of a serious energy and economic crisis that is going through all our productive sectors. Therefore, incentives and financial aid should have been provided to make it possible for entities to comply with legal requirements. For the same reason, it would also have been appropriate to revise the sanctioning regime provided for in Title III of the consolidated text. We also believe that a procedure should have been allowed to grant aid to local authorities, given their limited financial margin, to meet the economic requirements arising from compliance with the accessibility rules and their proper coordination with the rest of the territorial administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that there is not a single company that does not agree with improving cognitive accessibility for people who need it, but it cannot be legislated in abstract form without taking into account the sociological reality in which we have to apply the rule. Because, ladies and gentlemen, no one with common sense can understand that an Equality Minister is going to spend EUR 20 319 million on gender policies, in what you call equality policies. [[Applauds]] And, meanwhile, the Spanish families are still stifled by the serious crisis we are experiencing. Let's see what equality you're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, VOX is a serious party and we are aware of our responsibility, so we are going to face the challenge of cognitive accessibility without incurring party considerations, always thinking about the best for society as a whole. That is why I do not want to end without remembering, once again, that VOX is the only party that defends the dignity of all people, regardless of their capacities within and outside the mother's womb. [[Applauds]] The main right of people is the right to life, and in this, as in so many other issues, let me tell you that there is only VOX left. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u72	Thank you, Mrs Romero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u73	Thank you, President. First of all, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to greet the president of CERMI, Luis Cayo, and the other members of his executive committee, who are accompanying us this morning from the rostrum, as creators of this legislative initiative that they are. And I would also like to congratulate you on this new achievement in the achievement of rights for persons with disabilities, which this morning, at last, after an arduous and extensive parliamentary process over time, is being completed, and the recognition of cognitive accessibility and its conditions of demand and application will be established by law. It is one more step that we are taking to improve the lives of people, of all people and especially of people with disabilities, and from the People's Parliamentary Group we are very proud to have contributed to this achievement and to have done so by the hand of the sector, by the hand of CERMI, as a representative entity of persons with disabilities. [[Applauds]] We have done so as long as we have ruled, it is the path that supports us and this People's Parliamentary Group has been supported, both in 2013, by supporting the Government with the law of inclusion, non-discrimination and universal accessibility, with the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion, and especially by taking measures, which are the best to ensure the inclusion of persons with disabilities, as well as increasing the employability of persons with disabilities by 20%. That is the best measure to ensure their inclusion, and we have done so. With this claim of CERMI, this morning we implement the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which gave us in 2019 and which entrusted the States parties to adopt the legislative and also budgetary measures necessary to ensure accessibility in all areas. Accessibility, ladies and gentlemen, is not just about saving an architectural barrier, there are processes, environments, services, products - and they have already been said here by previous colleagues who have preceded me -. whose accessibility requires signage, easy-to-read methods, pictograms, in short, that make them cognitively accessible to ensure the equality and full inclusion of persons with disabilities, especially with intellectual disabilities, with autistic spectrum disorder, with cognitive deterioration due to ageing or being convalescent to neurodegenerative diseases, poor literacy or access to information or the ignorance that any foreign person may have of the language. This not only affects the disabled, but is also a step forward in the rights of all people. Anyone we can meet there. In order to fulfil this recognition, CERMI, as an expression of the social movement of disability, which brings together more than 800 entities and which represent almost four million Spaniards and persons with disabilities in their work of incidence and political dialogue - which, by the way, they exercise with mastery and have shown us well with this law - placed on the political agenda the recognition of cognitive accessibility. The Constitution assigns legislative initiative to parliamentary groups. This was a petition from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, but I would like to remind you that the People's Parliamentary Group also did so in the XIII Legislature and that the early dissolution of the House prevented its processing. Nothing matters today because the law that will amend the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion is in the sector and in the same terms as the sector has wanted. Cognitive accessibility has a broad technical, academic and social consensus, and required such legal recognition, as well as easy reading, and both to have their definition in normative text. It requires a specific cognitive accessibility plan, i.e. budget allocation to make it effective, a state-level cognitive accessibility reference committee for its study and for its improvement, and a schedule of adaptation of difficult-to-understand services, processes and products within a reasonable time but without delay. The unanimous consideration of this bill in the Senate gave way to its handling in Congress, where we hope it will be quick and easy. However, we were surprised by the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group and the United Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats because they aimed to reduce the expectation of the scope of CERMI's claim in this respect. They opposed the proper definition of cognitive accessibility, extending the time frame for its regulatory development from two to three years and replacing a cognitive accessibility plan with the second universal accessibility plan, funded by the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience funds. Moreover, they dared to amend the text with governmental slogans: Spain can. But Spain, which may be the one sitting up there and the one representing four million Spaniards, which is Spain, which has not given up on its efforts and which has pushed us all to vote unanimously today despite the fact that they have thinned the target, because this is how we vote in this House. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] [[applause]] The luck of our democratic system is that we have a second reading chamber, the Senate, which can examine and amend by amendment what was agreed in the Congress of Deputies, and the CERMI, in an admirable exercise... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u75	..., has wanted to improve the lives of persons with disabilities and has not ceased in the effort to ensure that the law has a definition of cognitive accessibility and easy reading, even in the preamble to the law. He suggested the amendment, which, in an exercise of coherence, the People's Parliamentary Group presented, among other parliamentary groups, and it is fair to acknowledge that the Socialist Group and the United Nations Group voted in favour of it, because from it were born the unanimity and consensus that is reached this morning in the house and from which we are so few in this legislature. That is what ends well, ladies and gentlemen, and that ends much better than how it came out of Congress on 21 December, with which we are satisfied, especially because today people with disabilities are the protagonists of having improved and participated in improving the lives of all. To the People's Parliamentary Group, the coherence of action prevents it from voting in favour of the amendments of the Basque Nationalist Party because they are a whim of nationalist dyes, not to assume the time limits of the law in defense of its autonomy or the participation of the sector itself in the elaboration of accessibility plans, with which the People's Parliamentary Group does agree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lima Cid has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u77	Thank you, President. First of all, I greet on behalf of our group those who are with us today and for those who are on a very big day. Yeah, for them. Today was not the day of his lords of VOX, today was not the day of his lords of the People's Party, today is his day, the day of CERMI, the day of Full Inclusion, the day of the more than four hundred entities that accompany him. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] I will also congratulate CERMI on those twenty-five years of experience, which today receive this recognition from the Ministry of Defence. Thank you for everything. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to the final stage of this proposal for a law aimed at establishing and regulating cognitive accessibility. And they will say: what is this about cognitive accessibility? It is that our world is easier to understand, targeted specifically at people with intellectual disabilities or autism, but that in general makes life easier for everyone and everyone, starting from the fact that our society is made up of diverse people, that we have different abilities and that the only thing that is disabled, ladies and gentlemen, is our environment. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said a few days ago, the political exercise starts from conviction and goes through dialogue to culminate in consensus. Our Socialist Group is convinced that we are doing our best for society as a whole and under the responsibility that lies with us within the framework of the legislative power. Our basis: first, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we ratified in 2007, which speaks of access to information, to the signification of public spaces and which all people must and must have the right to participate in political and public life; second, the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion, from which universal accessibility is defined as the condition that must fulfil our entire environment on the basis that it is understandable, usable and practicable, and with clear objectives, which is what the Socialist Party defended. Universal accessibility encompasses all disabilities and adding them would be a setback. We must ensure as Members and Members that the principle of legal certainty and the improvement of technical and linguistic quality are essential elements when it comes to legislation. This was the first position - I explain it to you in case the People's Party has not understood it - that the Socialist Party maintained. We then move to active listening, to dialogue, a fundamental element to advance from conviction, because, if not, gentlemen of VOX, it is a sinrazón, and from here and on behalf of our group we thank the contributions and realities transmitted to us by the Spanish Confederation of Associations of Families of People with Alzheimer's and Other Dementia, the Spanish Confederation of Major Organizations, the Spanish Society of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Down Spain, the Spanish Autism Confederation, Mental Health Spain, the Association of Cerebral Paralysis, the Spanish Federation of Brain Damage, the Cognitive Accessibility Office of the Board of Extremadura, and, of course, CERMI and Full Inclusion, who have accompanied us in all this way. [[Applauds]] We are at this point, in the amendments that come to us from the Senate. I will explain them to you, because the mention of the People's Party has distorted the message, as always. We incorporate in the preamble the definitions of cognitive accessibility and easy reading; the implementation of measures that guarantee equal opportunities, expanding the concept of public administrations, and technical amendments are made and the competences of State and autonomous communities are separated, as it cannot otherwise be. Transactions later to reach that consensus, to try to reach an agreement with the rest of the groups. We could not, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, because obviously neither we nor we are going to allow the language of the preamble and the rest of the text not to be inclusive; it is that we are not going to allow it. [[Applauds]] We therefore carry out this joint work thanks to all the organizations and thanks to all the political parties with courage, with reason and with arguments, which is the most important thing in politics. Our country therefore fulfils at European level the commitment it has ratified. We are moving forward with legislation in the face of an existing deficit in this area, we are promoting essential tools, we will carry out specific studies, the regulation of basic accessibility conditions, the second universal accessibility plan, the Spanish reference centre for cognitive accessibility and, most importantly, this law opens the door to the generation of employment for people with intellectual disabilities, as validators and validators will be needed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Let us feed one of the great capacities of the human being, dialogue, because, as Habermas says, what is needed is rather a game of argumentation in which motivating reasons replace definitive arguments. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lima.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u79	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of excellent Members. No parliamentary group will speak on this point.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u80	We turn to the agenda item on the proposal for the House Plenary's notice of deliberation and final vote on the draft law amending Act No. 9/2012 of 14 November 2012 on restructuring and resolution of credit institutions; Act No. 11/2015 of 18 June 2015 on recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies; and Royal Decree No. 1559/2012 of 15 November 2012 establishing the legal regime for asset management companies, in relation to the legal regime of the Asset Management Society from Bank Restructuring [[from Royal Decree Law 1/2022 of 18 January]] This proposal will be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of this meeting. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We started with non-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Oramas GonzálezMoro, concerning the implementation of an economic recovery plan for La Palma. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 in favour, 312 in favour, 11 in favour, 323 in favour, 19 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u82	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on prioritizing the re-industrialization of Spain. [[File number 162/000838]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u83	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on prioritizing the reindustrialization of Spain. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 96 plus 4 telematics votes, 100; against, 178 plus 7 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u84	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u85	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Oramas GonzálezMoro, on the steps that the Government will take to improve the management of minimum living income so that it reaches all those who need it. The vote will be taken by separate points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 191 plus 7 telematics votes, 198; against, 13 plus 3 telematics votes, 16; abstentions, 127 plus 1 telematics vote, 128.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u86	The item was therefore adopted. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 187 plus 7 telematics votes, 194; against, 13 plus 3 telematics votes, 16; abstentions, 131 plus 1 telematics vote, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u87	It was adopted. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 187 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour, 194 against, 3 votes in favour, 144 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour, 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u88	It was adopted. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 in favour, 64 in favour, 125 in favour, 10 in favour, 135 in favour, 142 in favour and 1 in favour, 143 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u89	It's rejected. Point number five. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 11 telematics votes, 341; 204 plus 7 telematics votes, 211; against 3 telematics votes, 126 plus 1 telematics vote, 127.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u90	It was adopted. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 11 telematics votes, 341; 109 plus 4 telematics votes, 113; 117 plus 4 telematics votes, 121; abstentions, 104 plus 3 telematics votes, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u91	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 votes, plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 109 plus 4 telematics votes, 113; against, 144 plus 7 telematics votes, 151; abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u92	It's rejected. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 votes, plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 109 plus 4 telematics votes, 113; against, 144 plus 7 telematics votes, 151; abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u93	It's rejected. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 110 plus 4 telematics votes, 114; against, 144 plus 7 telematics votes, 151; abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u94	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, so that the Minister of the Interior can account for the successive attacks on the Valley of Melilla AND THE POLICY OF YOUR MINISTERY FOR THE PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF THE MIXTURES. [[File number 173/000131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u95	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the Minister of the Interior to report on the successive assaults on the Melilla fence and on the policy of his Ministry for the prevention and control of them. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 96 plus 4 telematics votes, 100; against, 178 plus 7 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u96	It's rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish borders in Ceuta and Melilla. [[File number 173/000132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u97	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish borders in Ceuta and Melilla. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 in favour, 53 in favour, 193 in favour, 8 in favour, 201 in favour, 85 in favour and 3 in favour, 88 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u98	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u99	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree Law 3/2022 of 1 March on Measures for the Improvement of the Sustainability of the Transport of Goods by Road and the Operation of the Logistics Chain, and transposing Directive 2020/1057 of 15 July 2020 laying down specific rules with regard to Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/67/EU on the Movement of Drivers in the Transport by Road Sector, and exceptional measures on the revision of prices in public works contracts. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 272 votes in favour, 283 votes against, 59 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u100	The royal decree law is validated. The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 100 votes in favour, 111 votes against, 229 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u101	It will therefore not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u102	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft Sports Act submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 in favour, 33 in favour, 293 in favour, 304 in favour, 304 in favour, 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u103	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u104	Voting of the request for the House of Commons to give notice of the deliberation and final vote on this bill submitted by the Republican and Plural parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 in favour, 323 in favour, 10 in favour, 333 in favour, 8 in favour, 1 in favour, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u105	Consequently, the bill was repealed by the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u106	Senate amendments. Proposal for a law amending the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, to establish and regulate cognitive accessibility and its conditions of requirement and application. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to the preamble and the Single Article. New quarters. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 279 votes in favour, 290 votes in favour, 52 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u107	They're approved. Amendment to the Single Article. Two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 331 plus 11 telematics votes, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u108	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 votes, plus 11 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 193 plus 8 telematics votes, 201; against, 86 plus 3 telematics votes, 89; abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u109	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u110	Opinions of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of excellent Members. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 338 in favour, 322 in favour, 11 in favour, 333 in favour, 3; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u111	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u112	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of the request for the House Plenary's approval of the deliberation and final vote of the Draft Law amending Law 9/2012 of 14 November on the Restructuring and Resolution of Credit Institutions; Law 11/2011 of 18 June on the Recovery of Resolution of Credit Institutions and Investment Services Enterprises; and Royal Decree 1559/2012 of 15 November establishing the Legal Regime of Asset Management Societies in relation to the legal regime of the Asset Management Society from banking restructuring, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 325 plus 11 telematics, 336; in favour, 325 plus 11 telematics, 336.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-17-CD220317.u113	Consequently, the bill was repealed by the plenary. Very good afternoon, everyone. The meeting rose. It was one and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
