ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Given the extension of the agenda, I would like to inform you that the Presidency is going to make strict application of time control, so that all those who have planned interventions throughout today would be asked, please, to adjust their interventions, so that the Presidency will not have to cut them off. Thank you very much. We continue with the point on committee opinions on legislative initiatives, and in particular on the draft law on the promotion of the ecosystem of emerging companies. To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please hold your seats and remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u2	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Secretary of State. Good morning, High Commissioner for Spain Entrepreneur Nation. Today we are discussing the opinion of the project to promote the ecosystem of emerging companies. It is, as I have said on many occasions, a necessary law, so necessary that in our electoral programme with which we attend the 2019 elections, Citizens proposed a law to promote the ecosystem of startups; in fact, so necessary that they will allow me to say that it is a little late, although, as the saying goes, it is never too late if the saying is good. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a global digital transformation that is changing our societies and also our economies, of which we want Spain to be an active part. Faced with this new paradigm, startups are vehicles of innovation, attraction of capital, job creation and a great alternative for traditional professional outings. That is why it was more than necessary to recognise the specificity of emerging companies as an entrepreneurial initiative, projects that are sometimes born outside the system and thanks to the savings of the founders themselves who have enormous growth potential and that, if they validate their business model, they work, while at other times they remain on the road. Precisely because of this potential for growth, these innovation projects, by their nature and global audience, can grow in any other global capital, which is why it is more important than ever to offer the facilities and incentives needed to attract talent, investment and entrepreneurs to our country, especially in a sector such as startups, where its own process implies constant proof of error. This concludes the need for Spain to recognise a specific regulatory framework for startups, with the strategic objective of placing our country at the forefront of digital and technological entrepreneurship, always observing the best practices of these ecosystems and adapting to the Spanish economy. And we believe that this law to promote the ecosystem of emerging companies can finally begin to lay the foundations for the flowering of startups in our country. Now, is this the law that Citizens would have done if they had been ruling? Is that a perfect law? It is not, any law is always likely to improve. It leaves some loose ends and sins in some aspects of a certain conformism, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good law, above all, because for once - and we hope it will serve as a precedent - there has been a willingness and effort on the part of the Government to generate consensus. Many amendments have been accepted from all or almost all the parliamentary groups, and that is a good signal sent abroad that there is almost unanimous will in this House for this law to be a success. In the specific case of my parliamentary group, Citizens have managed to include very positive changes. During the course of this Act, we have succeeded in having eighteen of our amendments, either in their terms or in their transactions, accepted. In addition to important technical corrections, I would like to highlight some of the improvements achieved and accepted by the Government. Thus, we have extended the turnover limit from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million, we have given Enisa Tools of collaboration with the private sector in processing to avoid the risk of collapse of the accreditation system of the innovative character of companies, we have expanded the benefits to serial entrepreneurs and we have improved the controlled testing environments, increasing their transparency and giving more information to both those involved in them and to society as a whole to learn from the experiences of other companies; in short, to create once and for all a true innovative ecosystem in which synergies are created for all participants. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u3	Wait a second, Mrs. Muñoz. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to remain silent within the Chamber. If you want to talk, you can leave; it is not mandatory to be in the chair. You can continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u4	Apart from the amendments that have been accepted to my group in the parliamentary procedure - eighteen in total, between the parties and in their terms - I said that things remain to be done in order to achieve the law that the Liberals want. We particularly miss, because it is crucial for the growth of emerging companies in their early and most vulnerable phase, that no further effort has been made to improve taxation. We also believe that the period during which the emerging company can benefit from its special scheme should be extended from five to seven years. We must also facilitate the attraction of international talent and highly qualified staff, especially now, in a context where teleworking in many of these sectors is the norm. Finally, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen the regime for assessing the effects of the law, meeting the objectives and putting into use what has been learned in the controlled testing environments, as I said before, so that everyone within the ecosystem can learn. In short, it is about focusing on creating a real innovative ecosystem where startups can learn from each other about their successes and mistakes and that public administrations also learn from them. For this reason, because we believe that the law can go a step further, I call for your support for the amendments of my parliamentary group that we have kept alive. He said at first, when he thanked the Secretary of State, the High Commissioner for Spain, the Entrepreneur Nation and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, that this is a good law and that I believe there is will in this House to make the law a success. We cannot know if it will be, time will prove it, but I think I speak for everyone if I say that we hope it can be a truly transformative law of the Spanish economy, because we need it and because it will be an achievement of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u6	Thank you, Madam President. We recognize positive elements in this law. We share the need to take steps to promote and facilitate the development of innovative enterprises, but, in our view, it is not a centralizing approach to this issue. As is well known, Galicia has exclusive competence in the promotion and planning of economic activity, as well as in the field of industry, and therefore this law, which aims to encourage the creation and relocation of emerging enterprises, cannot be designed from a centralist and uniformizing perspective. Our amendments have been aimed at alleviating and correcting this situation, trying to ensure that the standard respects the policy-making capacity of the autonomous communities in this area, but unfortunately the majority have not yet been taken into consideration. Why propose a single accreditation body at state level? Why should we also centralise the information points in this area? Why ignore the richness that the linguistic and cultural diversity of the various nations of the State can entail for innovation? Why not declare an activity as entrepreneurial when it has a particular interest in the scope of an autonomous community, and not only for the whole State? In our view, these issues have not been adequately resolved. We insist that the promotion of economic activity is indeed essential and that job creation should be facilitated and promoted from the public sphere, but it is not necessary to laminate and ignore the role of each country or autonomous community in this area. Despite the incorporation of some proposals, as I say, we believe that this has not been properly resolved, and that is why we maintain our amendments, we call for them to be supported and we hope that they will be adopted, because, of course, we are not going to vote against a law that we recognise positive elements, but we also believe that if these issues are not properly resolved we will not be able to vote in favour either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u8	Thank you, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important law for itself. These days I read an article where someone remembered that we have been talking about the startup law for eleven years, and therefore we need to highlight what we are doing today, although, as I said in the Commission, it is certainly not going to raise many headlines. In turn, it is also an important law because it is part of a package of others, as the law creates and grows or the competition law, which must have that transformative and facilitating element of the productive economy. Therefore, Vice-President, congratulations on the fact that we will end up adopting a law on which, although it is certainly not the one that we would have wanted - all parliamentary groups would have made another law that we are going to pass today - we agree on the major elements. And I would like to start here, Vice-President, beyond expressing my thanks to you and your ministry, to the Secretary of State-Carme, thank you very much for the willingness to negotiate, for the willingness to reach agreements and give it two and three rounds - as well as to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, especially to Begoña Nasarre and Pedro Casares, who have served as a bridge between the Government and the different parliamentary groups, because if we agree on something - I think we will all agree here - it is in that the text that we are going to adopt today is better than the one that came in, which thanks to the contributions of the different parliamentary groups and also to the contributions that different civil society entities have made to the parliamentary groups. So today I would like to have a special recognition for an entity in Catalonia, Barcelona Global, which for a long time has been working for the attraction of talent so that the development of Barcelona and Catalonia is up to the standards of different countries of the European Union. Therefore, I also thank Aurora Catà, outgoing president, as well as Mateu Hernández, for my recognition, which I extend to other entities, which in this case I can no longer appoint. The improvements we have made are substantial. We, from the Democratic Party, have already incorporated twelve amendments, and it is not only a bit quantitative, but also qualitative. Among them, it is important for us to refer to the amendment of article 93 of the Law of the IRPF in order to improve the regime of the impatriates and their taxation, a regime that existed but that we extend not only to those hired on the job, but also to those professionals, to those autonomous who establish themselves in Spain, which will make the attraction of talent easier. And here, too, I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance for its sensitivity so that we can reach agreement on this. We would have liked to have reached ten years, instead of five, and to have included some additional tax, but, as you know, we are not going to fail and we are going to continue to try it throughout what is left of the legislature. There is also recognition on another issue that was of concern to us, and it is that the positive administrative silence for Enisa's resolution or recognition of startups was established, which had not been contemplated and included. And finally, we have incorporated some aspects of the Emerging Business Forum, another issue that we were also concerned about, so that there would be recognition of entities from different territories. In short, we are going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President; you are very kind. Good morning, good morning. Today is the end of the process in the Congress of the law of emerging companies, which would become like the second season of the well-known series 'Friendly Business Laws', sponsored by the Spanish Government. Well, as far as the archdiocese is concerned, we've flown a lot below the media radar, minister, but that too has its good part. The first season, called 'Create and Grow', left us with a sour taste, especially at the end. We liked the driving thread of the season, when at last the SMEs attacked the monster of lateness and because of this their chances of survival increased, although, as you know and despite the fact that the thing painted well, it was not a strong success. There was a dramatic turn at the end, maybe looking for a remake, a second season. In the last chapter of the season, the shadow of the familiar monster of IBEX-35, who, with his tentacles placed on the great parties of the regime, once again avoided the implementation of the sanctioning regime that would end once and for all with the business slowness. Undoubtedly, there will be a remake or the opposition and the cry of the users of the bad economy and the Spanish SME take care to persist. The second season has been based on the law of startups, and it is always good news that progress is being made in regulating the conditions of emerging companies, although, as we are used to, the first bill was frankly decaffeinated. The writers left the ambition in the tintero and forgot the ability of the autonomous communities to regulate certain aspects as well. That is why we amend fundamental aspects of the law. To highlight: one, to prolong the period by which a company can be considered startup; two, to include measures to encourage investment by business angels in these early stages - then to comment on how this argument was handled, on which women angels, on which it has to be my first thanks, gave us a lot of ammunition -; three, that the autonomous communities can carry out the accreditation of emerging companies beyond Enisa and the empowerment of the unique windows already existing in many territories and that information is provided in all official languages; four, various amendments to the Law of Support for Entrepreneurs and their Internationalization to favor SMEs and give more competence to the autonomous communities, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, and, in this sense, I join the recognition of Barcelona Global and PIMEC. Of these proposals, we have been able to make little progress in some, much in a few and nothing in so many others, partly because of the vetoed capacity, voracious vetoed capacity, without limits, of the Government. However, it must be recognized that it has been a negotiated and extensively negotiated law; there are contributions from most parliamentary groups and it is to recognize the merit of speakers who are already quite skilled in the art of the transaction. Herrando learns how to screw - I've never known where to put the axe in this 'wrong' thing. And a separate mention deserves the Commission's lawyer, Mrs Monica Moreno, who is not here because she is sure to be working, and her hard-working team, who repeatedly deserves all the praise and thanks, which has ended our ability to adjectivate. We have been able to make progress on related issues, such as competition, which Enisa, for example, can delegate to other entities, such as the Autonomous Communities, as well as in which information is published in all the official languages of the State, and also in other aspects, such as facilitating the issuance of numbers and identity cards for foreigners, although, from the point of view of the half-empty vessel, we still have issues in the tinter, and I take advantage of the fact that I have a minute and a half to criticize this way of acting through the veto of the Government, which is not only in this case, but are accustomed to us. I believe that parties supporting the Government should be repressed and a certain degree of discernment should be applied as to how democratic this procedure is and, in particular, its abuse. All this, together with the refusal not to even want to talk - and there are already three laws and two budgets - about the basic incremental innovation for the pharmaceutical industry, forces us not to oppose, of course, forces us to vote blank and let the government and the groups that support it in the second reading in the Senate discern the amendments that will again be found there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u12	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, dear Carmen and other guests, today we are debating the adoption of the emerging business bill, better known as startups. During its parliamentary procedure, quite a number of amendments have been incorporated, although none, by the way, of this parliamentary group, but some of the other groups that shared the same purpose as those tabled by VOX. The first amendment tabled by this parliamentary group concerned the elimination, within the explanatory statement of the law, of the inclusion once again of the so-called "gender gap", which is nothing more than an ideological term which the left uses as a mantra in a supposed defence of women, to whom, however, ladies and gentlemen, they do not defend; indeed, a term used by Mr Píriz in his speech in the Commission stating that one in five entrepreneurs are women. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you will never change. Then, it bothers them when we tell them that they are part of the consensus progress, but it is that they always buy the speech on the left, because I ask them whether there is any impediment to women being entrepreneurial because of their sex, as Mr Píriz said in the Commission, or if, on the contrary, what exists is lack of support for women who are mothers and who have more difficulties in reconciling their family life. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what exists in Spain today is the maternal gap. There is no wage difference because of being a woman; what exists is discrimination because of having children. What should be done is to reward the hiring of parents in businesses and the protection of the family. If you do not believe me, I refer you to the report by the Banco de España, whose conclusions are devastating: I warned that the maternity pay gap was 28%. Under no circumstances is the word gender mentioned, a term, by the way, used sibilically by the left to criminalize man. And to subscribe the statements of Olivia's father, my dear friend Eugenio, to whom I was able to accompany this Tuesday in Segovia to fire his murdered daughter allegedly at the hands of her mother, manifesting - listen well your lordships - that this is not of men and women, but of good and bad. The feminist perspective must disappear from any legal text and from our lives forever. [[Applauds]] Only by the inclusion of ideological terms would this bill deserve our disapproval. But it is no less true that the sector is quite satisfied with the bill and we must acknowledge that the text of the law has been improved, albeit not sufficiently. This is mainly due to the method used by the Government, vetoing 57 of the 271 amendments tabled, using a totalitarian approach and without any legal basis. Firstly, because amendments affecting the decrease in income and a generic concept are being vetoed without determining exactly what heading such an amendment would be concerned with. And, in addition, it is being done on the future benefit, when it should be the current benefit, because the decrease in budgetary revenue is not a fact that is likely to be certain, but a fact of probability. Secondly, because there is a distortion of the very raison d'être of the power of the veto of the Government recognized in article 134.6 of the Spanish Constitution, since the aforementioned power of the Government, is exercised as it is exercised in the proceedings, has to be examined by the Chamber. And there is lewdness on the part of the groups in accepting the vetoes, undermining the legislative powers of the Congress, so that this recently executed practice by the Government is preventing the parliamentary groups from carrying out their functions, as has happened in the paper and in the Commission. And, thirdly, because there is no precedent in the history of this House for vetoing amendments that affect the decline in income, when it is also an estimate. As the Government has raised an additional 28 billion up to September by breaking its forecasts, there is no point in vetoing amendments that affect a tax such as, for example, the IRPF, because, because of the elasticity of this tax, the application of a deduction in the IRPF may result in higher collection and higher revenues. This practice must be denounced as another element of this Government which manages the institutions at its own discretion. Ladies and gentlemen, tell me, what is the point, then, of parliamentary groups submitting amendments? Isn't it logical with a startup law to introduce amendments that affect tax laws? And if they do, isn't it logical that they can lower income? Also, on the contrary, it may happen that a deduction, for example in IRPF, increases them. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, agree to apply a practice that can be used by future governments? I have already told you that this parliamentary group will initiate the necessary legal measures to determine whether or not the veto on the amendments is in line with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that some of the vetoed amendments proposed an ostensible improvement of the law, including increasing from five to seven - or from seven to twelve, if they are biotechnological - the years to be considered startups; increasing the base of deduction in IRPF for investment in startups from EUR 100 000 to EUR 1 million; increasing the limit of own funds to be considered startups from EUR 400 000 to EUR 1 million; increasing, for example, the three to five-year period for the application of the 15% tax rate on company tax on startups, or reducing the tax on certain digital services from 3 to 1.5% to taxpayers in Ceuta and Melilla. In total, the budgetary impact of the above-mentioned amendments which the Government vetoed amounts to EUR 128 million, i.e. almost EUR 130 million, the same amount that Mr Sánchez has promised to give to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation behind the back of the Spanish and less than the more than EUR 150 million that has been reserved for the Presidency of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an unprecedented act of hypocrisy and phariseeism by a government that vetoes illegal amendments, amendments that could have improved this law for entrepreneurs, SMEs, self-employed people and investors. For Sánchez's wishes there is no money to help them, but there is money for his whims and delusions of power when it comes to promoting himself and who knows if perhaps also preparing for his departure. Ladies and gentlemen, when we govern, we will repeal all ideological laws on the first day and return to the Spaniards the place they deserve and should never lose. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today is a very important day for the more than 11,000 startups in our country and for the 140,000 employees of these companies. After several years of waiting - too many -, today we finally pass in this House a law necessary for the entrepreneurial and innovative sector of our country to grow and deploy much faster. It has been months of work in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the introduction of the law to improve the text that entered the House almost a year ago. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the meaning of our role here: to legislate, to talk to the sectors involved - in this case, the innovative startup sector - to sit with them, to analyse the feasibility of what they propose and to make improvements to the different laws. That's our job here and that's what we've done in this law. Because the original text lacked many things - it is not the law that we would have proposed - and during the parliamentary process we have enriched it among all in a spirit of collaboration, negotiation and consensus. Here I would like to thank both the rapporteur of the Socialist Group and the responsible Secretariat of State. He said that he has improved and has done so in key concepts for our group, such as the promotion of startups in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 99% of the over €43 billion in startup investment last year focused on urban areas; moreover, the vast majority of investments focused on Madrid and Barcelona. During the parliamentary process we have proposed measures to promote the creation of such enterprises in less populated environments. Our group has put forward measures to improve the tax treatment of these companies in these environments and to discriminate positively against those that settle in less populated areas with greater flexibility, but not all have been approved so far. We still have room to reflect on this. The law is timid in tax benefits for startups, it remains in many areas halfway to what is needed and in this case it is evident. We must and must strengthen the installation of these companies in the less populated environments and that is achieved, ladies and gentlemen, by making them attractive. And it is not something that the Group of the European People's Party alone puts forward, but that the Economic and Social Council itself, in its report, highlights this lack of law. If not now, when we govern we will bet decisively to eliminate these gaps between rural and urban environments. In that sense, our proposal on sandboxes in the less populated areas goes. The proposal of the People's Group on digital nomads is also pending. We believe that we must be brave in this area and that what we have proposed and will vote on later is nothing more than to facilitate these highly qualified professionals who have the possibility of working in Spain, likening our legislation to those of countries such as Italy or Portugal, which have already been betting on these figures and are attracting tens of thousands of these professionals. The law has improved it among all, for example, in aspects such as serial entrepreneurs. 60 % of the ecosystem is made up of serial entrepreneurs and there was no point in limiting very drastically the possibility of access to aid for these people who are engaged on several occasions with different projects. The compromise amendment that we have adopted between several groups brings us a little closer to what the ecosystem needs, which are less limited in these respects. The People's Group also proposed - with the Government's veto - tax relief measures in the IRPF from capital gains for the sale of a startup if the full amount was invested in the subscription of shares or shares of a new startup. With this measure we will promote the concept of a serial entrepreneur and encourage investment in them. Nor does the law address the issue of tokens. A law can no longer be born behind the reality that it intends to legislate and, therefore, in the People's Group we have tried to make tokens look like other more classic payback schemes, such as shares or social participations, which are increasingly less and less used in startups. The law that comes out of Congress today is much better than the one that came in. We would have been much more ambitious, and we will be, when we govern, because we have to face challenges in the future, such as narrowing the gender gap in this ecosystem. Mr. Jiménez, listen to me, only one in five entrepreneurs are women. The scope of law enforcement is also pending. It is true that the five years old of startups, seven in the case of biotechnology, is scarce. It is also true that there may be legal considerations that advise not to expand it, but our group in this matter has shown a will for consensus, as in all the negotiation of the law, and we believe that until its final approval and even later it should continue to work in this key area, as the mid-life of startups continues to grow and, if in 2019 it was 2.2 years according to the entrepreneurship map of the South Summit, in 2022 it is already in 3 years. These time limits of the law remain short and the ecosystem calls on us all to make an effort in this area. Let us hope that the Government will commit itself to continuing to seek a solution. There are many challenges and many aspects to improve in the law in the future, but the entrepreneurial ecosystem awaits us impatiently. He hopes that this law will come out with maximum consensus and that is where my group will be. In these issues where we negotiate with loyalty, without traps and where we improve the quality of life of the Spaniards, we will always be the People's Group. There the Spaniards can wait for us always; when the opposite happens, don't look for us. Spain is the third country in the European Union in number of startups and this law has to act as a catalyst to continue to grow and strengthen the sector. That's what the People's Party will always be about. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u16	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, a city like Palma, conditioned by the insular fact and by the dependence of tourism, needs this law of startups to boost a system of innovation of its own and stimulate the diversification of the economy. We are talking about one of the main standards developed by the Government for the promotion of new high-value-added economic activities that generate quality employment. It will undoubtedly have a positive impact on investment in emerging companies, on the development of R & D & i and on the consolidation of innovative companies. It is a key piece to boost innovation and the dynamism of the country's economy and to promote the development of new sustainable, resilient and high-quality jobs. In fact, this law is part of component 13 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and is complemented by the recently approved reform of the Competition Law and the Law on Business Creation and Growth. It should be noted that this is a law involving civil society actors and parliamentary groups. For this reason, we congratulate both the competent department, the Secretariat of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, and all parliamentary groups on the ability to listen and the willingness to agree that have made it possible to improve the text during its parliamentary process. Our parliamentary group has worked on this law taking into account two issues whose results have been satisfactory to us. Firstly, to ensure that the impetus of startups and steps is not used solely and exclusively through tax benefits, thus preventing the State box from decreasing and generating competitive advantages over the rest of the companies. And it is that our tax system sins of lack of justice and progressiveness as far as corporation tax is concerned. Let's see an example. According to recent data from the Tax Agency on consolidated corporate tax accounts, large companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 billion pay only 5% of their corporate tax profits, while companies with a turnover of between 1 and 6 million take on an effective rate of more than 18%, i.e. three times more. It is something that we cannot afford today if we want to build a solid welfare state, a just and progressive tax system and a business climate that guarantees competition and the generation of new opportunities. In this regard, we believe that this bill has succeeded in striking a balance between the various demands made by parliamentary agents and groups. The second issue on which my parliamentary group has worked has been to ensure that an innovative project can be set up as a cooperative or a working society, as we intend to accommodate and push this type of entrepreneurial activity, where economic interests are integrated with those of a social nature. In this way, a firm step is taken to comply with one of the requirements set out in the Constitution in Article 129.2: 'The public authorities shall effectively promote the various forms of participation in the enterprise and shall encourage, through appropriate legislation, cooperative societies. They shall also establish the means to facilitate workers' access to ownership of the means of production.' We therefore believe that this bill will fulfil its twofold objective: on the one hand, to promote the ecosystem of emerging companies in Spain, from the creation of a company to its consolidation, and, on the other hand, to stimulate investment in emerging companies and digital entrepreneurs and turn Spain into a pole of international attraction. I shall now turn to some of the main developments in this law. Start-ups will be considered those companies that are innovative new start-ups, up to five years in general or seven years in the case of biotechnology, energy or industrial companies, which have their head office, permanent establishment and the majority of employment in Spain, which have not distributed dividends and are not listed, and which have revenues of up to EUR 5 million. The procedures for its creation are facilitated, with the elimination of notarial and registered tariffs, in the case of companies that are established by means of standard statutes and by electronic means. During the first three years, startups are exempted from the cause of dissolution for related losses or resulting in a capital imbalance. The National Innovation Company S.A., ENISA, under the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, will be responsible for accreditation as startups to be able to access the benefits established by law, and there will be points of attention to the entrepreneur and a national entrepreneurship office that will function as portals or information windows and access to public aid. It also provides for a very favourable tax regime for both companies and their investors and their workers. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Nasarre Oliva has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u18	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Socialist Group. I would like to extend our sincere thanks to the Government, in particular to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, headed by the first Vice-President, to whom I thank you for joining us. Thanks to the High Commissioner for Spain Entrepreneur Nation and, of course, to the Secretariat of State for Digitization. Thanks to everyone and, above all, to your teams for their involvement and their intense work, together and well coordinated. Thanks also to the sector, which accompanies us today, for your contributions, for your involvement and for the concerns that you have moved us. [[direct your words to the guest gallery]] This law is your law. Let me also express our thanks to our lawyer Monica, who is with us today, and to all the parliamentary groups for the good working climate, because during the parliamentary process many amendments have been incorporated from all the groups that have contributed significantly to the improvement of the law, always with the common objective of responsibility in the legislation, aware of the importance of a pioneering law, a law that we will all be proud of. Ladies and gentlemen, the Emerging Enterprise Ecosystem Development Act, colloquially known as the startup law, is a rule in response to the global digital reality, generated at the right time of opportunity, investment opportunity and financing. It is a milestone of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan for the attraction of talent and drive of national and international entrepreneurship. It is a law that will establish for the first time - I repeat, for the first time - for these companies a modern and specific regulatory framework; speeding up bureaucracy and eliminating formalities; promoting its creation and scalability; with a strong boost to R & D+i; promoting synergies between the various actors - the Administration, SMEs, large companies, universities, research centres and emerging companies - and generating through this innovative impulse one of the economic tractors engines to be developed today in our country. This law is a country law. Putting the existing ecosystem in Spain a little in context, we are the third European country in number of startup companies. In recent years, investment has multiplied with a major evolution, we could almost call it revolution. Regulation is therefore necessary to provide regulatory certainty at the national level and much more at the international level, to give them global visibility by enhancing their competitiveness. It is a law whose objectives are to modernise regulation, to make its procedures more flexible and to promote the ecosystem of companies by giving them more life to create startups, to be born, to grow and to be transformed. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that the fundamental premises of this rule - which are consistent with the road map of the progressive government led by Pedro Sánchez - are to promote investment and economic development and to attract talent, knowledge and innovation. An equation in which the unknown always clears itself with added values: the intergenerational value, becoming an attractive job option for our young people; the competitive value, being an international reference; the value of territorial cohesion, with telework, so that they can work where they decide to work digital nomads; the value of experience, with the novel entrepreneur in series-by-end is recognized the learning -, and finally, the value of the effort of the entrepreneur, because it is enough of heroes: dignification and facilities. The Socialist Party is once again contributing to turning Spain into a level reference in technological entrepreneurship across Europe in sectors that encompass biotechnology, energy and industry; in strategic sectors of vital importance in current geopolitics; in technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, big data, robotics, quantum computing, nanotechnology and a long-term, developing world-class reference technology. We are the first European country to legislate in this respect with the search for the grail of parliamentary consensus, on the road to dialogue and with a long look. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me a memory. This weekend, the Socialist Party commemorated forty years of the first socialist government. So many memories of pioneering, innovative and modernizing laws at that time and in a country that demanded them invite us to reflect. It is another time, yes, but with technological needs now evidenced by the pandemic, by war or by telework, with a need for digital transformation that implies being brave at difficult times. Today we are taking a step forward in our country's progress to advance in this future of changes, also in technology, hand in hand, together, adding them to give a yes to a demanded and worked law, a pioneering law in Europe, a law to attract talent, knowledge and investment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nasarre. On behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u20	Thank you very much, President. Normally, I do not ask for the floor in this type of legislative debate, but today I really wanted to share with all of you three sentiments that come together at this important time for our country. First of all, in a context of so much noise and so much friction, I think it is worth seeing what the Congress is for, what the loyal debate and the intense work among the political groups is for, and I believe that this debate and this vote show us the best of ourselves. Furthermore, I think it is worth noting that this is one of the most pleasant moments I have had in this Chamber lately. I have to say, President. [[Laughter]] Secondly, it is worth noting that this is an important law. It's a pioneering law. With parliamentary procedure the law has improved and we have come to a balanced text, which not only drives the creation of startups, but also achieves a good balance with the rest of the package of regulatory improvement of the business climate, as the law creates and grows and the reform of the Competition Law that have already been mentioned here. It is a law that will enable Spain to take the lead in the drive and attraction of talent and investment in this new digital economy that is so fast growing and has great potential for creating quality jobs, innovation and potential growth. So, this is a second issue that I really want to emphasize. And, thirdly, as it cannot be otherwise, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the technical team of Congress, which has worked magnificently; the negotiating team of the various political groups; and, of course, the Socialist Group. Although Pedro Casares has had to move away at this time, Begoña Nasarre, Pedro Casares and the entire team have done an extraordinary job. And, above all, I would like to thank the team of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the team led by Carme Artigas, also supported by the High Commissioner for Spain Entrepreneurship Nation. They have done serious work, I think they have listened with great respect and attention to all the actors involved, to all the political groups. And thanks to everyone, rowing together in the same direction, I believe that today we are taking an important step forward for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u21	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u22	We turn to the next item on the opinion of the draft Sports Act. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u23	Good morning. Egun on. He took off with Pythagoras. Pythagoras said that the true lovers of sport were philosophers. And it is that, when he spoke of the lovers of sport, he meant those who went to the Olympic Games to contemplate and understand. He distinguished them from the athletes, who sought fame and glory, and distinguished them from the traders, who attended the Olympic events driven by profit. You see, ladies and gentlemen, centuries pass, but classical questions remain. It would have been no different that this law would have deepened in these aspects of the philosophy of sport on which Pythagoras spoke in order to contribute to what any law should contribute, to enable a better society that does not fall into corruption and does not sink into the dark side of the human. Perhaps this is why the classics advocated a social vision, that of sport, which, combined with the political vocation, equips sport with its potential to be a tool of education, health, integration and well-being for the general interest. Because the learning of defeat, the pursuit of perfection, discipline and teamwork, solidarity, perseverance or rigour of training are strictly educational factors that are found in sport and that can be transferred to society. In this area, in this law and through a series of amendments that have not been received with excessive enthusiasm, we wanted to overcome the aseptic view that the sporting event has its own nature of goodness, which is neither good nor bad. Principles, regulations, resources and political will must be available to ensure that sport achieves those higher goals, namely, inclusion, effective equality and accessibility to active life and health for the entire population. For this we believe that it is mandatory to include the perspective of a life-long physical education. And yes, we see positive that this law allows a new framework for the promotion of physical activity and sport, that it has included the perspective of the inclusion of disability and the perspective of the effective equality of men and women, although the promotion of physical activity is relegated to a minority background and what there is is a total and absolute protagonistism of federated sport, a federated sport that does not practice it - I recall here - not a third of the population of the Spanish State. Finally, the law comes with good contributions in terms of social rights and progress, but seen from the perspective of my country, seen from Euskal Herria, it maintains deficits as the competition issue that, although in this parliamentary process has tainted quite a lot of harshness, many aspects of invasion that it proposed, still have springs in the articulated that show that respect for the autonomys that have full competence to legislate in sports matters is not finished to understand in these corridors. And now let's go to the topic that sets the benches on the right regarding the novelty that this sport law brings in as regards the selections that come out of the framework of the Spanish selection. A transactional amendment between PNV and PSOE removes one of the impediments for, for example, the Basque Basque ball selection. Listen to it again: Basque selection of Basque ball. Disconcerting, isn't it? It puzzles anyone who hears it and does not know how the automatic springs of that Spanish nationalism that is never identified as its own are activated in this state. Because what's this like? The Basques created a sport, the ball, the most genuine sport of the Basques, and until now they were forbidden to represent the country that invented it in international competitions. That's right, and that's so far by law. We will see if, from here on, from the change in the law, it is possible to do so in the ball and in the surf, because there are many more doors that must be opened. Although I also say so, it's good that at least one of the locks that had to be turned fell. The truth is that that door does not open as much as the right hyperventilate ensures, but, as we said in the Commission, it is a step, and I hope that the first step precedes the next steps that are necessary for this to be a reality. Therefore, in the same way that it is appropriate not to underestimate what has been achieved, neither should it be called deception. At the time of the assessments, we also have to do them rigorously and seriously, and this is ours. First question: Euskal Herrian is a nation and must be able to have his official selections representing our entire nation. Second question: Basque athletes and Basque athletes are not minors. It is not acceptable that a athlete cannot freely choose which country he wants to represent or which flag he wants to carry. And, third: Basque selections refer to a cross-cutting demand in our country, a claim that comes from many years ago, that of the Basque selekzioa, which remains in our society simply because they do not allow us to do so. And this, in this law that Basque society hoped will eliminate the locks in order to enjoy the game of the selections, continues to be maintained, with the exception that it opens to these forms of social and historical roots. For all this, we cannot give our vote in favour of this law which imposes the obligation to play with the Spanish team, that of attending the calls of the Spanish sports teams, under the explicit threat of considering the lack of assistance as a very serious violation, which entails sanctions, including the loss of the sports license; a sword of Damocles with its fined edge of sanctions against the freer personal decision of the sportsmen and sportswomen. As we said when it comes to defending our amendments, being part of a national selection - whether this one is the one - should be part of the rights of athletes who accumulate merits for it, not of obligations, and even less of an obligation linked to punishment. I finish now, and I do so with full conviction.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u24	Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u25	In the same way that a large team is not the one that wins matches, but the one that never gives up, the demand of the Basque teams will remain a demand of our people.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u26	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u27	And we, from Euskal Herria Bildu, will continue to defend her for her art, until we achieve it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u28	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u29	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Egun on all and everyone. Today we have completed the process of the Sports Bill. I say from the outset that it is not the bill that we would have wanted because, said in some way, perhaps the State is not competent to have a sports bill. And when I say this, I want to make it clear that we originally support the amendment to the whole that was presented here because we started from the base, from the matrix, when we said that there was no title to competition because the Constitution itself, the constitutional text itself, did not reserve any competence to the State in the field of sport, but instead, through Article 148.119.a, placed that competence exclusively in the autonomous communities. The same competence is defined in similar terms in paragraph 43.3 above, concerning the promotion of sport and leisure education. It is clear that in the case of the Euskadi Autonomy Statute, and within the constitutional bloc, article 10.36 states that it has exclusive competence in sport and leisure. So, if it is the Constitution itself that says that, what are we legislating then? What is the matter in which the State assumes and makes a sports law? It supposes that it makes a kind of truth, taking some things and others, and in those matters of representation of the state and above autonomous ones, appealing to the topic of the defense of the right to health, to exercise and to sport, when it is a transferred matter. Therefore, I am not going to defend issues that this law says that I think should not have, because for that there are the autonomous laws, that those are the ones that have to have the sports matter. My group has tabled a large number of amendments, but all of them are very clearly focused on what this law should say, because purely sports matter is already in the law of Basque sport, and I suppose in the law of Catalan sport and Galicia, etc. Therefore, many amendments that have been tabled seem very good to us, but this is not the place, because this law cannot legislate these matters. That is why, as we say, corollary, we keep alive the final provision that we had tabled in the amendments, which says that this law is enacted in compliance with article 43.3 of the Spanish Constitution, which orders the public authorities to promote physical education and sport and to facilitate the proper use of leisure and on the basis of the allocation of supra-autonomic general interests of Spanish sport as a whole, whose defence and promotion is the responsibility of the State. And that's the point. And you can't invent other competitive titles when they're not there. However, the law has come out; many amendments have been incorporated that improve - as has already been said - in the matter of, let's call it, competitive invasion. Because there were a number of issues on which we were going into the kitchen and, thanks to the amendments that we have tabled, which have been accepted, which have been adopted and which have been negotiated, this law has been improved, it has been balanced. In this regard, it is also true that this law improves the former law on equality, accessibility and equity. There's no question about that. We have negotiated and agreed. The truth is that of the number of amendments that my group has tabled many of them have been accepted in their terms and so many others have been negotiated. I believe that we have managed to defend the competition field, to avoid or to stop interference not only from the State or from the general administration of the State, but from other State-level institutions that wanted to enter the autonomous sphere. And yes, it is true that we have agreed, through a compromise amendment with the Socialist Party and thanks to the support of other groups to this amendment, and we have managed that the autonomous sports federations can participate directly in the international arena if the relevant international federation contemplates their participation, and in the case of modalities of sports specialties with historical and social roots in each respective autonomous community, or if the autonomous federation had formed part of the international federation before the corresponding Spanish federation. We know that that has generated a lot of noise, it has already been said; excessive. It is, above all, a right, a right that corresponds to us; something normal, something that must be accepted with political normality, institutional normality, if you truly believe in the political conception that you have and, above all, if you are a Democrat. And from there, from a perspective of historical, sporting and social Basque demands, it is one more step. Is this the last step? No, no, Is that the first one? Yeah. Do we settle for it? No, no, We're not doing here a contest of who wants more. We are clear, we believe that we are a country that has the right to have its own elections and many other things. But until now it was nothing; and between everything and nothing, we have something. I believe that it is not just a matter of political decision; the sports base, the sports areas of Euskadi are satisfied, they are happy with this first step that has been taken. After all, we owe it to them and to them, who are the ones who compete and those who know what to do, and are delighted to be able to honour in areas such as the Basque ball - which, as has been said, is Basque, but it is international - or surfing, because between the traditional and the modern I think there is a great space for sport, and in Basque we are very satisfied with it. Therefore, it is a basic, fundamental first step and we believe it was necessary. We have not trampled on anyone; we have acquired what was ours. Finally, I would like to mention that we maintain the amendments which said that we must go to the selection...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u30	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u31	Yes, Madam President. It seems to us that it is a pity that a country needs to force people to come to its selection, it is a pity. We therefore keep alive the amendments we have tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u33	And, on the other hand, I mean it's better than what was before. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u34	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u35	Thank you, President. I should like to begin by thanking the various rapporteurs of the various parliamentary groups, particularly Mr Soto, for their good work, for their honesty and clarity in the whole process of what this sport law has been. In addition, we are joined by teachers such as Professor Carretero Lestón, which has made the dialogue between Mr Soto and me all the easier. I say this because it is a law that began very well but unfortunately ends sadly. The one that started out as a promising and state law, in which we were in fact giving majority support, is twisting and the decisions that the Government has made drive us out of a law that will regulate Spanish sport. It expels those who have a vocation to represent all Spaniards and re-emphasizes those who want to stop being Spaniards. The sport law that we are dealing with here today contains important developments in many areas, and that is why I say that it started very well. Many of these developments have been incorporated into proposals from the various parliamentary groups throughout the process. In the case of Citizens you can highlight the fact of incorporating, for example, women's football into quiniela or the fact that the hobbies are heard at the time of practice and sports management. We have also made a number of proposals in the area of equality and disability; in the latter two areas the law has made serious progress. On the other hand, we proposed that the League of Football Hall be considered already professional. These are proposals that were later less successful. We wanted to legitimize sports unions to negotiate collective agreements and we have made many proposals to improve, for example, transparency in sports management. There is no need for me to list cases here today in which opacity has benefited uneducating practices in sports management. In Citizens We consider that transparency is the greatest antidote against jets and opportunists. In short, almost half a hundred amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group improved this law, and others try to improve it with less success. I am grateful that you have taken some of them into account, and I believe that if the Government had chosen to negotiate this law with us and not with the usual ones, we could have reached many other agreements in the areas I have listed. In the last part of the processing of this law problems arose that could greatly complicate the Spanish sporting scene, specifically football, when the People's Party withdrew surprisingly a series of amendments that came to give legal certainty to the middle class clubs of the first and second divisions that had signed contracts prior to the processing of this law. As it had been written, the law could open the door for these contracts to be invalidated, contracts negotiated by the League and involving contributions for the vast majority, for thirty-nine of the clubs that are in the first and second divisions, which could absolutely break their accounts. Well, surprisingly, the People's Party withdrew these amendments, amendments that Citizens were going to support, and the PSOE joined the People's Party's theses. Many middle-class clubs were hanging from the brush. In theory, the insertion of a text providing legal certainty was complicated. The withdrawal took place at the time the deadline for amendments was met. In Citizens we put our hands to work to try to reverse a situation that could be dangerous, so much so that there was a stoppage on the Professional Football League. We find in an amendment by the Plural Group, by Mr Baldoví, a loophole in which we could insert a compromise amendment that would put this debate back on the table. Mr Baldoví was pleased to incorporate it, and Mr García Adanero was added, and we managed to get this Citizens' proposal to reopen the debate that was dead after the withdrawal of the amendments. I would like to thank Mr Baldoví that we have worked quite well, despite the great differences we have in other areas. The Government had no choice but to stand in the way of this debate, because they were going to have to vote on this amendment, and they did the classic thing: in order not to vote on an amendment that was not theirs, they presented a compromise that came to say the same as ours. Well, look, it doesn't matter to us, because the problem was solved and, for example, I, who am from Malaga, don't see the accounts of my city's club being compromised by a law that leaves legislative loopholes. Football clubs in their respective provinces do a great deal of social work with their quarries, their facilities and their foundations, but above all, and as legislators, if there is one thing we should avoid in a law is the tremendous oximoron that contains a legal lagoon. A law can't generate uncertainty where it wasn't. Finally, but no less important, until now, with our more and our less, with our differences of opinion, this law added many support, also the support of Citizens, but the usual ones arrived, with the usual narcissism. The PNV arrived with its requests. After an opaque negotiation, we find that there can be international representation with the flag of autonomous communities with sports with historical and social roots. I mean, where there is nationalism, because you already know that this historical rooting exists in everything, in everything ancient and earthly. Attention to the first success of the Socialist Party and what sports will be represented internationally, because they told us that it was for sports such as rock raising or the Basque ball. By the way, Mrs. de Bildu, all sports - all sports - have been invented somewhere, they don't come from flowers. If all sports can be represented internationally in all the places where they have been invented, you will have ten million selections competing each in your neighborhood, playing, for example, marbles, which will have been invented somewhere. The first example that jumps to the lecture of a sport of great historical roots that will be represented internationally by the Basque Autonomous Community is surfing. Wonderful. Everyone thinks surfing is a sport that Polynesians took to Hawaii, but no, they're wrong. Surfing invented it in Euskadi. In fact, by Euskadi is called one of the world's surfing capitals, 'Euskalifornia'. [[Laughter]] I am going to go seriously now, because if we listen to the representatives of the PNV or Bildu talking about this section in the law, you will see that you say that a door is opened, that is the beginning, and you are once again giving nationalism a huge concession and propaganda apparatus. If you withdraw this article from the law today, if today is about changing this barbarity, we will vote in favour of the sport law. Otherwise, Members of the Socialist Party, we are voting against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u37	Thank you, Madam President. We are faced with a sports law that was born as a deeply centralized and centralized project, without respect for the competence of the autonomous communities in the field of sport, so much so that, it must be remembered, it was received with an amendment to the whole that the BNG supported. After the parliamentary procedure, it comes to us with some modifications that do not seem to us sufficient to eliminate that initial centralist character. Only two amendments of the BNG were partially met, of course none of which introduced participation in official international competitions of the national sports teams, in our case of the Galician teams. It's not just an old, fair claim. It is logical that in a plurinational state, in which several nations are integrated, we can compete with our national selections and symbols, as happens, by the way, in other neighbouring states such as the United Kingdom, with the selections of Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. In our nation, in Galicia, this is a truly felt claim. Recently, the Via Galega platform collected thousands of signatures from people in the sports field claiming this right. You, I mean the Government, with the partial acceptance of a PNV proposal, recognize that the problem exists and that that right may also exist, but given the conditions, it will be impossible to exercise it beyond very specific cases. It is a small advance that, as I said, does not erase that centralizing character of the norm, always the Supreme Sports Council has the last word.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u39	The corporal. This and the obligation to participate in the Spanish selections, which is a setback, leads us not to be able to support this law.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u41	Thank you very much, President. Compromis tabled a number of amendments, the first to strengthen the role of hobbyists in making decisions in clubs. We believe that what has been accepted is very timid, but we are sure that we are paving the way for hobbies to ultimately play a decisive role in the decision-making of their own clubs. A second group of amendments, and in that we agree at some point, were so as not to harm the modest teams. And there, in fact, we had a compromise amendment to try to make sure that the modest teams were not harmed by this law and that the League was not always a thing of two. We believe that we were successful because, in the end, a new amendment had to be tabled. And then two things that for me, as a Valencian, are absolutely fundamental. One was to recognize that the Earth is round and the law of gravity, and that the Valencian pilot is a sport. That is known to all who practice it and is finally recognized by the law. I finish and reserve the last part for something that has not been accepted, even though we and other people have repeatedly asked for it. Today the remains of Queipo de Llano de la Macarena have come out, before those of Franco have come out and, instead, you cannot recognize the cup that won the Levante, the Cup of Free Spain. Gentlemen of the PSOE, are you Republicans or what are you? Are you in favour of democratic memory? I don't think it's that hard to vote in favour of the Levante finally having recognized the Free Spanish Cup. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u43	Thank you, President. Gary Lineker said years ago that football is a sport that the English invented, played eleven against eleven, and won the Germans. If Gary Lineker were a Member of this House today, I would say that the Germans are the comrades of the PNV. Congratulations, because you have managed to get Euskadi to compete internationally in Basque ball and surfing. You've had your big wave and no one was going to steal that moment, that first step. That is why it is very sad to see how you have used the Spanish House Rules to veto the dream of Catalan independence. That the PNV has vetoed the amendment of Juntas and Esquerra is something that cannot be understood. This amendment called for this new sport law to take advantage of a historic opportunity. It was a compromise amendment so that this new law does not deny the right to exist in international sport to historical nationalities: Catalan, Basque and Galician. We haven't been able to vote for it. Catalan, Basque or Galician federations will continue to be unable to be full members of international federations in a generic manner and not as an exception. As we said, the PNV has managed to make the Basque ball compete internationally in a formal way partly thanks to the support we gave them in the Commission. This opens the door to Catalonia perhaps being able to do it in rugby, hockey, darts or bowling. But we wanted not only to be allowed to participate internationally in sports selections with historical and social roots within the community or autonomous federations that had registered with the international federation before the Spanish federation. It was a good but insufficient, discriminatory and ambiguous amendment. Why? Because, what is historical rooting? If it is by historical roots, football in Catalonia has more roots than in Madrid, for example. Barça, Espanyol and Palamós are older than Real Madrid, founded by Catalans, by the way, by Joan and Carles Padrós. Let me not be angry with the Athletic of Bilbao, which is also older than Madrid. If it's for social reasons, what about the 143 000 members of Barça, 44 000 more members than Real Madrid? Does this serve to have selection of Catalan football or Euskadi playing in official international competition? No, no, In addition, the prior agreement of the Higher Sports Council is imperative in order to be able to have international representation. It was and is our red line and, therefore, Junts will vote against this law, despite having played the party with great intensity and despite having left us the skin in the defense of rights, especially of sportswomen. Junts has amended the law so that federations and leagues are obliged to treat both sexes equally; Together, it has made public media obliged to schedule the retransmission of women's sporting events on time with equal hearings and, in addition, it has proposed that the call for selection should not be mandatory for athletes, because a country that supposedly defends the freedom and autonomy of its citizens should not be obliged to attend official international parties. If a athlete has no interest in going, it will be because for him or for her it is not a prize or a priority to play with Spain. Moreover, we have already seen what consequences it may have not to go to the selection: if you are a woman, the threat of punishment is up to five years with withdrawal of a federal record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The moment of truth has arrived for the law of sport, a law that, as you know, has had two key moments and the two have been starred by the Republican Left. The first - they will remember -, the amendment to the whole that our group presented for that competitive violation - one more - of this law when the PSOE put it on us on the table - a chapter already past that does not need to be remembered much - and the second moment, the improvements that this law has had until today, which are largely thanks to the Republican Left. For example, thanks to Esquerra Republicana, we will protect and increase the rights of the LGBT collective in sport. Thanks to Esquerra Republicana, we will protect and increase the rights of women athletes. Thanks to Esquerra Republicana, we will protect and increase the rights of disabled athletes. Thanks to Esquerra Republicana, we will ensure that the law ensures sustainability and the environment. Thanks to Esquerra Republicana, we will ensure that the law ensures the rights of animals in sport. Thanks to Esquerra Republicana, we will protect the co-official languages in the sport; whoever organizes a sporting event, it will have to be done in the official language of the territory. Last but not least, thanks to Esquerra Republicana, this law will scrupulously protect the competences transferred in the field of sport to the autonomous communities. All this, and much more, Republican Left has achieved. [[Applauds]] Of course, we have not achieved this alone and I would like to thank Senator Elisenda Pérez and colleagues Ricardo Farin and Claudia González, who have also made it possible for all of this to be within this law. Neither PP nor VOZ nor Citizens have been concerned for a moment by the athletes of their country and an independent party has had to come to do so. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let him look at it. I would also like to highlight the Government's willingness to improve the law and reach an agreement, especially with the two spokespersons, Mr Soto and Mrs Canales. Despite this, and here comes the negative part, we have had to go late and bad to negotiate to improve a law that would really benefit us all, but going late and bad has not benefited us anyone. If not for Republican Left, many of these points would not even have been taken into account, many have been forced to get them at the last moment. In addition, we believe that the official recognition of our selections, those of our country, is essential, just as we believe that the economic issues that the ministry has refused to negotiate are essential. By the way - I make a point here - Mr Díaz, surf was certainly not created in Euskal Herria, but I do say that the top surfers in the whole Spanish state are Basques, especially Mr Aritz Aranburu, who represents Euskal Herria very well. Know that, too. We know that in your turn as spokespersons you will ask us for responsibility to bring forward this law, an important law for your country, the same responsibility that we ask you to bring forward laws in the Parliament of Catalonia. Our vote will be to continue negotiating and advancing. Instead, you vote against laws as important as the law of statistics of the Parliament of Catalonia. They will tell us that they have the sport always present - and I don't doubt it, I know it is - but, at the same time, the CAR de Sant Cugat budget continues underfunding after budget. We know that it has not been easy and that it will not be easy, but our party has always put sport as a pillar of well-being, as an essential good, as a culture, as a health and as a basis for making a better country. They can't do it every afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, from day to day and just wait for us to give them support because it's an important issue. It is so important and we believe it is so important that we have tabled more than 160 amendments; it is so important that we have negotiated until hours before their debate, and it is so important that we are not going to vote against this law. You show once again that for you this law is as important as they say it is, and there you will find us always. This doesn't end here, let's keep moving towards a common goal, the law of sport, which I'm sure we all want. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Alvarez. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u46	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the lawyer Ignacio Astarloa for guiding us and advising us with his excellent sense of humor and all the rapporteurs for his kindness and work, which has helped to improve the initial text without any doubt and make it more plural. But, ladies and gentlemen, after what I'm hearing here, the medals were distributed on the way out. It is a text that respects the Constitution and commits itself to ensuring that the development of policies is in coordination and collaboration with the autonomous communities, which also have competence, respect for linguistic plurality and involve themselves in the promotion of all official languages, including sport. But, as I said in the Commission, those who have really been the real authors to improve the law have been sports associations and federations, who have sent us their proposals and which all the parliamentary groups have been reflecting in our amendments. Thank you for your involvement, for your love of sport, for promoting and defending it. They have been a clear example of one of the main values that sport promotes: teamwork and cooperation. Probably the law we pass today will not be the ideal law for any of the parliamentary groups, but it is a law that is moving forward and that still today we can improve and, moreover, leaves behind thirty-two years of legislative oblivion. This Law, which the world of sport hopes today, improved and approved, recognizes sport as an essential activity. We all recognized the need for the benefits, both psychological and physical, of practicing it during the toughest moments of the pandemic. It is a more inclusive and egalitarian law, even if it is not even as, in our view, it would be enforceable. And it is more inclusive and more egalitarian because for the first time sports entities will have to balance the presence of men and women in the governing bodies because it eliminates the legal helplessness in which women athletes have been faced with situations of pregnancy, with loss of support and subsidies because they were unable to compete for obvious reasons. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u47	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u48	Because it obliges professional federations and leagues to guarantee equality in economic, labour, remuneration and prizes for women's and men's teams, something we consider essential and justice. Because it recognizes the rights of LGBT people, a collective that must also be visible in sport. Because it promotes the promotion of inclusive sport, practiced by people with different abilities, facilitating their participation in management and government bodies, and because it grants rights to athletes. However, this law still contains aspects that need to be improved. To begin with, equality exists when we all have the same opportunities and with this law the economically disadvantaged families do not have equal opportunities. Many families suffer in order to buy their children something as basic as the necessary sports equipment, but they are also forced to pay private insurance, which not only leaves children behind from the possibility of competing in federated sport, but too often does not offer adequate attention to athletes in cases of injury. It is a widespread problem that only favours insurers with foreign capital. Ask yourself who they're gonna legislate for. We have tabled an amendment to ensure that social security covers sports accidents and that compulsory insurance for families is not a burden, because one cannot be called patriotic and hit in the chest when he does not support the laws that protect citizens. It is true that the law improves the structure and transparency of both Spanish federations and professional leagues, but it must also stop abuses. To this end, presidential renewal is necessary in the federations, and in this regard we are introducing Amendment 245 so that we cannot hold office for more than three legislatures, a key element to ensure progress in modernity and progress in all sports federations. The text contains for the first time the figure of the amateur. We are introducing Amendment No 247 so that, in addition, the link figure with the hobby can be determined. But what is incomprehensible is that this law does not provide for the protection of animals and that is why we are asking in our amendment 463 for something that is common sense, such as that the practice of sports with animals conforms to the specific legislation on the subject. No citizen will understand what the reason is for them to object to the law being respected. In conclusion, we are going to vote in favour of sport entering the 21st century into legislation and we call for support for the amendments tabled because their sole purpose is to protect families, protect animals and to link even more closely the essential values of sport such as respect, tolerance, cooperation and responsibility between those who practice it; in short, to make a better world for our children within the world of sport. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jover. Mr Ramírez del Río has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u50	Thank you, Madam President. A few days ago the Cabildo de Gran Canaria, by decision of Podemos and the PSOE, vetoed at the III Women and Sport State Congress the specialist in sports law Irene Aguiar, using his appearance in the Committee of Culture and Sport of this Congress to justify this veto. It is not only an attack on freedom of expression, but also an attack on the dignity of the Congress of Deputies itself. If what a person holds in a Commission can be used to eliminate it from public life in Spain, no one will, of course, give any testimony other than that which the Government likes in any Commission or anywhere. But this, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos - who have perpetrated this matter - cannot be called democracy. [[Applauds]] They have introduced in Spain the culture of cancellation and the culture of censorship. Aguiar has been vetoed for expressing opinions shared by many historical feminists of the PSOE. The fact that they are imposing the criterion of a part of their leaders on the whole country is an obvious sign of sectarianism and is something that, sooner than later, they will pay very dearly. In order to prepare our position before this law, we were gathered with a great many sportsmen, clubs, federations and experts in sports law and the amendments that we tabled moved the concerns of much of the world of sport. These amendments revolve around a number of crucial issues. First, it is necessary to ensure that the participation of people with a male physical constitution does not destroy women's sport. [[Applauds]] This does not, logically, mean that trans people cannot compete in sport, it means that they cannot achieve a decisive advantage that ends up eliminating that female sport and ends up blurring the boundaries between male and female sport. Women's sport is currently on the rise around the world, but it is clear that this Government prefers to sell itself to the delusions and hallucinations of its partners to stay on the couch. Some international federations have taken letters on the matter, such as that of Swimming, after the case of Lia Thomas. In this case, a person who was ranked number 462 in male swimming, became a gold medal in female swimming in the United States. After this, letters have been taken in the matter to prevent cases such as this from continuing to harm the rights of athletes. However, many other federations have not done so. With this law, athletes will be unprotected and in an inequality of conditions that will in many cases lead them to abandon what they have had to fight for. In order to avoid this, we have tabled various amendments such as the 709, according to which participation in sports competitions, when divided by sex, must be made according to biological sex. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] No group has supported this amendment. I repeat, none The group has supported this amendment, which is of mere common sense, demonstrating that for the defense of women's sport, as for so many things, only VOX remains. [[Applauds]] Secondly, a relevant case is that of the TAD, the Administrative Court of Sport, which had allowed free access and quick decisions on many sports issues, so that, for example, the promotion or descent of sports clubs did not have to wait for years for a court ruling. When those decisions were taken by the TAD, they arrived more or less quickly, when they had to wait for a judicial decision, as in the case of the Obradoiro, they arrived very late and, in some cases, there was no possibility of amending the damage suffered. For this reason, sporting cases will flood the courts of our country in the coming years and, when the PSOE joins the history books to the socialist parties of Italy or Greece, the next government will have to solve a problem like the one you are leaving you today. Thirdly, the protection of small clubs in the ecosystem of professional leagues and federations. The clubs announced their opposition to this law and only one last-minute amendment avoided a strike. However, we believe that the whole of the article can lead to serious discussions in the courts and that that is not to provide security for our sport. Fourthly, the conditions of athletes and technicians. The situation had changed radically over 1990 and we felt that much more attention was needed. The Government has referred us to the status of the athlete. However, we have to say that seeing what happened with the artist's status, applied to droplets since 2018, this was the time to have discussed this matter. The amendment that PSOE and PNV have agreed on to Article 44, which opens the door to the participation of autonomous elections in international competitions, is another of those occasions when the gentlemen of the PSOE talk with the sovereignty of the Spanish people. You have allyed yourselves with those who publicly seek to break Spain. Even some who have shared with you other kinds of madness have had to withdraw from support of this law in the face of this savagery. The independenceists have done two things in which they have a lot of practice: to take the PSOE measures with which to leverage against our country, against Spain, and to use sport for propaganda purposes. This law has given them both and I hope that every mayor and councillor of the PSOE throughout Spain will know that they have been made accomplices of a betrayal. By the way, gentlemen of Together, you know that you are the pagantas of this government, because you have given them nothing and in spite of that... [[Laughs.-Applause.]] A sports law is a need that everyone has gathered and, if it had been approached in a less sectarian way, it could have enjoyed a great deal of support.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u52	However, the PSOE's desire to support federative caciques of their rope and the delusions of their partners have surpassed the public interest and the defense of the common good. We cannot support a law that will create more problems than it will solve. Thank you, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u53	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u54	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I will apologize because in just seven minutes I am not going to make a summary of the 118 articles of the bill before us today. I think the minister should have done this today, who has not even come to the sitting where the third law of the sport of our democracy is voted and debated. [[Applauds]] And today is a historic day! Today is a historic day because it is the third law of sport that is debated in the Congress of Deputies and will be voted on. The first was in the 1980s, the General Law of Physical Culture and Sport, and the next, that of the 1990s, that of Sport, which we are amending today. What a lack of decorum for the minister and a lack of interest in Spanish sport! It's something we already knew from the first day he was appointed. Secondly, I would like to thank the work of my parliamentary group, represented by Marta González, Óscar Gamazo and legal advice, because their accompaniment and their work have made my work much simpler and more effective. [[Applauds]] Along with the more than 100 meetings with the sport sector we have had, we have managed to make contributions to a bill that came very lame to the General Courts on 22 December when it was registered. I'll tell you about some of those contributions; they're a lot more, but I'll focus on five. Firstly, the People's Party has achieved that sport is recognized and declared an essential activity. That means that sport is a health tool because it helps to have better mental and physical health. Secondly, the impulse to women's sport, the impulse to women sportsmen in situations of motherhood and pregnancy and the impulse of their presence in the governing bodies of sports entities. We have also made a commitment to the Socialist Parliamentary Group to compete for sex in professional competitions. Thirdly, we have achieved something very important for us and it is better to protect the image of our children in sport. Ladies and gentlemen, on social networks and on the Internet, images of our minor athletes subjected to unnecessary exhibitionism are running. We have therefore achieved greater protection. Fourthly, of course, to shield sports practice with animals referred to the federative regulations - you already understand what I am talking about - and, fifthly, also greater transparency and better rules of governance and codes of good governance in sports entities. We all agree that we must eliminate certain behaviors of the Spanish sport that abochornate every day. Things are still pending, and that is why we are keeping amendments alive. The arbitration tribunal, which is housed in the Higher Sports Council, should be developed on a regulatory basis and be likened to the international and also to the autonomous world to resolve disputes in competition. One thing that should have been in this opinion is the legitimation of sports unions to negotiate collective agreements and equality plans and to represent in the competition processes, which today is not and which we are going to bring as an amendment to vote at the end of the day. Also, the updating of sports insurance benefits or the development of the sportsman's status in time and form. It's fundamental. This law will be taken if the status of the athlete is not developed. The parliamentary work of the Legislature has been extraordinary and I would like to thank the spokespersons, Mr Soto, Mr García Adanero, Mrs Calvo and Mr Ramírez del Río. It's been fabulous. Everything was phenomenal until the executive power interfered. Everything was great until the Executive came to crush the Legislative Power. The Sánchez government broke that parliamentary harmony when it wanted to agree the law with the Basque Nationalist Party and with Bildu, instead of with other parties, having the possibility of having reached a historic agreement, and all this to give international representation to Basque ball teams. [[a lady Member: What a barbarity!]] Lady Bildu spokesperson, the Spanish ball team has just won many games in the Biarritz World Cup. I think you see another reality. But, as we already know them, I would like to give explanations today, some explanation, now that we don't hear a lot of people. The problem of Basque selections and the international representation that they are going to create, this was written from the first day and the Government knew it, the Government knew it; but it knew and was afraid of the media noise that this could generate, and they designed a very good strategy in Moncloa: creating a bigger conflict to cover this one. What major conflict do you remember in the last weeks that has been created in the Spanish sport that has covered everything? That of the first and second division teams. That conflict was created on the same day as the solution was given, this conflict was created to cover the debate of the Basque selections, and that is why the People's Party eliminated some amendments, to re-place the Socialist Party, which had created this conflict, in the focus of the conflict. [[applause]] Why did he create it? They'll wonder. Why did they create it? Because the preliminary draft law collected what the football clubs were asking for and the bill was eliminated, and they wanted the People's Party to pay for the broken dishes. We caught them in the trap, we caught them because we already know them, we already know what sanchismo is. Therefore, they wanted to cover with football the debate of the Basque selections, but they did not succeed. I have to finish, and it ended with sadness, because today was supposed to be a historic day in Spanish sport. There was a great opportunity to have reached a historic agreement to get the third law out of the sport of democracy with a great agreement, but I tell you that Spanish sport is above you, it is above even us. Spanish sport is where we unite and where our differences disappear. His honour, his history has names and surnames: Nadal's, Gasol's, Indurain's, Carlos Sainz's, Mireia Belmonte's, Ruth Beitia's. So many, so many names and surnames that are above, gentlemen of the government, their concessions to the Basque nationalists. That honour and history will remain as long as you want to continue to grant the Basque Country and the Catalan sports policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Merino. For the Socialist Group, Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u56	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the President of the Higher Sports Council, José Manuel Franco; welcome. And I also want to greet Luis Leardi, of the Spanish Paralympic Committee, and all the sports and sports associations that accompany us here this morning on a very important day. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my second words to congratulate the National Women's Under-17 Football Team, which last Sunday proclaimed itself the champion of the world by making our country very big. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a new sports law. Today we have a great opportunity, a historic opportunity to take forward a country project for sport, a project for sport resulting from dialogue and also the result of agreement with the entire sports ecosystem; dialogue and agreement with sportsmen, federations, leagues, clubs, sportsmen's unions, with all sportsmen and physical activity professionals. We have all heard and all of you have your mark on this law of sport. Dialogue and agreements also with all political forces in the parliamentary arch. And when I say with all political forces I say with all, with all but one exception, with the exception of those who only seek confrontation, division and do so through hatred, insult and lies, even in sport. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an innovative sport law, it is a pioneering sport law in our environment, it is a rule that introduces a new conception of sport and physical activity in our country, recognizes the right of all citizens to sports practice and declares sport as an essential activity. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, Spain does not break, as we have unfortunately been able to hear this morning, but quite the contrary: with this law of sport, sport becomes a tool of social and territorial cohesion in our country. This law of sport makes an express mention of the role that it plays in the unpopulated areas and in the rural environment, highlights the sport diversity that becomes wealth, that sport diversity that our country has, and facilitates collaboration between administrations. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, our sport ecosystem is being modernized. Important developments in good governance and transparency of sports entities are included. A new model of sport justice is designed and channels of participation are opened for amateurs in our country's sport. It is a law, ladies and gentlemen, which values the industry that sport represents in our country. Look, it accounts for 3% of GDP and employs more than 400 000 people. Look at the importance that this law gives to sport. And all this thanks to the great work of federations, clubs, trade unions, professional leagues, sportsmen, which make it possible for Spain to be a great world power in sport. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Football League, all the clubs, the Government of Spain and all the parliamentary groups that have facilitated a reasonable and balanced agreement in the football world. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law on sport is the law on non-discrimination, it is the law on the protection of the LGBTI collective in sport, it is the law that draws a red card to racism, xenophobia, intolerance and LGBTIphobia in sport. [[Applauds]] This law, ladies and gentlemen, is the law of sport, of inclusion in sport; of inclusion in sport, yes, and I say it proudly, there is no law in the world that contemplates so much progress for people with disabilities in sport, and there is no law in the world that fights child poverty also through sport. [[Applauds]] And here I would like to express my thanks to CERMI, the Paralympic Committee and the Pau Gasol Foundation. Thank you very much. This is also your law. [[Applauds]] And above all, ladies and gentlemen, this is the law of equality in sport. Check out, the law that promotes the status of the athlete, the law that promotes the visibility of women athletes, the law that recognizes them the right to conciliation and breastfeeding, the law that establishes that prizes and the system of bonuses in national selections are equal for men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the law of sport that dignifies women sportsmen in our country. And one wonders what argument there is not to vote in favour of the law of inclusion, equality and modernization of our sport. No arguments. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to make a single reproach, not one, and I probably have reason to do it this morning. I will remember a phrase by Madiva, by Mandela, that said that sport has the power to change the world, the power to inspire and, above all, the power to unite people. I want to thank Graci Canales, Javier Antón. I would like to thank my parliamentary group, the team of the Higher Sports Council, José Manuel Franco, Nerea Huete, and Juan. I want to thank the lawyer and I want to thank all the spokespersons of all the parliamentary groups, for we have all spoken, we have agreed, we have listened; your footprint will remain forever in the Journal of Sessions, and this law of sport is also your law. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this new law on sport was necessary, as the previous one in 1990 does not address many of the realities of today's society. In our view, good work has been done and we welcome the fact that this law recognizes the constitutional right to the promotion and practice of sport, but it seems to us particularly remarkable that there is a great deal of progress in ensuring effective equality between men and women, who are committed to inclusive sport and who are strongly opposed to discrimination on grounds of race and sexual orientation. These are the most interesting and positive aspects of the law, but we would also like to point out that the two majority parties have changed their approach to the section governing elite sport and, in particular, the television rights of men's football. While this is a lucrative business that affects private interests, we cannot overlook the direct impact it has on the Spanish economy and the broad social interest it generates. We are therefore reassured to see that the claim of most clubs is met and not a small elite. If this group of voters works and defends a model in which the benefits of one territory do not increase at the expense of the harm of the others, for consistency we apply the same criterion in this section and we defend a more fair and balanced distribution model and that other more modest but also with a respectable social mass are taken into account. We are against any gap that increases inequality, and an unacceptable injustice would have been committed if it had yielded to the pressure of the most powerful. We also consider it very positive that this law also takes into account in its article 7 the obligation to carry out specific public policies for older persons and persons living in rural areas or in areas with special demographic difficulties, since, as detailed in the text itself, it has an indispensable socializing role and needs strong support from the administrations, since the promotion of team sport or the actual realization of the necessary displacements is sometimes complex. For all these reasons, we will support and vote in favour of the final text of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. A matter of as much social relevance as sport had in the process of this law an opportunity to seek the greatest parliamentary agreement. However, the groups supporting the Government are bringing us a piece of legislation that will generate more controversy than agreements in the future; it is a law that does not reach the chocolate medal by far. I want to echo the concerns among the teams linked to the League and which were resolved, under threat of strike, at the last minute, although they remain unknown about how to articulate in the future the defense of the interests of a large part of the sports anonymous societies and their legitimate rights of marketing the retransmissions, which will also have an effect on the modest teams and on the base, whose benefits should be guaranteed without vacuums, but which with this law lead to legal insecurity and lawsuits, because, as the unforgettable Vujadin Boskov said, 'football is football'. Ladies and gentlemen, this law of limited scope will prove to be of dubious utility in the face of political arbitrariness such as those suffered by the very popular Covadonga Group in Gijón, forty thousand partners who have been fighting a mayor's office and its followers for years, who have illegally fulminated the practice of piracy in the Piles River; caciquism in front of sport. I would also like to express my strong rejection of the possibility of giving official status to Basque sports teams. For Mr Iceta, who has come to account for nine nations in Spain, this agreement will have been a small one, but it is not for those who believe in the Constitution, founded - no one forgets - on the indissoluble unity of the nation, common and indivisible homeland, indivisible also for the absent minister and his representation in official competitions. [[Applauds]] Vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that it is normal to see the satisfaction and happiness of Mr Soto, because he has worked hard to get that after more than thirty years there is another law of sport in Spain, but like all of us here, you are very aware that this law could have had a very broad support and yet you have once again chosen the easy way, which is to satisfy those who gave you the investiture and those who still depend today. Once again, Mrs Aizpurua, I have to say to you clearly: your country, your nation, is Spain, the same as mine, the same as that of Esquerra and the same as that of the 350 who are here and of those who voted for us all who are here. [[applause]] Of course, Spain is not going to break by this law, it is right, so it is not going to break. But look at you, once again you've given the clue, but it doesn't matter to you, because you've been told: no, if this at the end the first key, the first lock, the first step. That is the problem, which gives you exactly the same, and that is fundamental, because if you follow the interventions of the secessionists a little bit, the final goal is always there and you go step by step and they say so. Don't you know Mr Arzalluz's famous phrase: to climb the mountain you can climb straight or zigzags? And they say, No, we are of zigzags. For this is part of the zigzags, this which you have approved, but it doesn't matter to you because you live every day, you live in the moment, but then when time passes, big problems arise. Look, the other day the Spanish Basque ball team got a big hit in Biarritz with athletes from all over Spain - not from all the communities, but from many communities in Spain - because it's normal, and you create a problem where there isn't to satisfy a secessionist-nationalist need that didn't make any sense. What matters to you is very important, because that goal, that of getting a nation to say, along with language, territory and logically the flag, that that is another country, is the goal you have and are the same - I am not referring to the same people, obviously, but yes to the common goal - that when the Spanish women's selection in Pamplona played the other day they put painted against the Spanish women's selection. That is a consequence of that policy of satisfying secessionism. And Mrs Aizpurua, Euskal Herria, chimera and entelequia; Foral Community of Navarre, Basque Autonomous Community, and all within Spain. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u64	We turn to the following item: Opinion of the draft law on institutionalization of the evaluation of public policies in the General Administration of the State. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Citizens have always defended as a party the need to institutionalize the evaluation of public policies. In fact, we believe that, in political action, decisions taken to serve the interests of citizens are essential to have a set of procedures and criteria that help, first, to optimize scarce resources, to give rigour to the decisions taken to use those resources and thus to be able to better detect pros and cons in the different options that can be given. Secondly, we believe that this system should also serve to analyse decisions already taken, see what real impact they have and if they achieve the objectives, in order to change course and improve what has already been taken. This is the evaluation of public policies, a diagnosis of possible needs and alternatives, or an ex ante evaluation, and then analyze the consequences of decisions made, or an ex post evaluation. [[The Lord]] In Citizens we have always maintained that these evaluation processes must be fully and naturally assumed, as they are the true connection between the democratic system and the scientific method. It is the tool that allows to design and make the best and most effective decisions to govern well, but above all with greater transparency and strengthening the accountability of those who govern to the governed. But is this the bill we want in Citizens? Well, look, to be perfectly clear, this is the first step that we think is necessary, but it is not much less the whole way forward, and in this we have been honest in the dialogue with the Socialist Group and its spokesman, Mr Aceves, whom, in any case, I have to thank for their availability and for their reciprocity. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that Citizens already introduced in February and October 2016, in the respective agreements for possible governments of Spain both with PSOE and with the People's Party, steps towards the implementation of a real system of public policy evaluation. We did this first with the PSOE, in order to strengthen the independence and increase the resources of the extinct State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies, AEVAL, which was born in 2006 and disappeared in 2017 as a result of the lack of resources and the absence of a culture of evaluation in Spain, but above all because of the refusal of the incumbent politician to be evaluated and analyzed in his decisions. And so we then agreed with the People's Party to replace that agency with - I quote literally - a new independent institute for the analysis and evaluation of social policies to assess the effectiveness and cost of public spending policies and programmes, including educational, health and social policies at the national level, independently, professionally and effectively. This created the Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies, which since 2017 has unfortunately had very limited work and, of course, without any real autonomy and independence of the Government to which it is called to evaluate. Because that is the horse of battle, the independence of the evaluating body, and there is still much to go on here. Citizens' position is to ask us, if it is to evaluate the action and decisions of the Government, why we let the Government itself somehow carry out or control that assessment. Why this Congress does not demand a truly independent evaluation agency, with its own budget, in an independent section of the general budgets of the State. Why don't we bring this agency by law to these Courts, which are the direct representation of the citizens, and not to a ministry, which is a delegated body of the government in charge. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do we all, as Members of Parliament in our role of monitoring and controlling the government, give up just as important an instrument as this evaluating agency and give it to the one to be evaluated? In short, why do we agree to risk that the evaluation of public policies will end up again being ineffective or marginal, or, worse, that it will end up being an instrument of evaluation, but of mere timely and interested justification for the action of the Government. That is why we are critical of this first step, but we are also constructive and we appreciate it, even if only because there were European funds in the middle. We are sure that it would not have been included in the plan of the government before Europe if it had not been precisely by Europe a constant and permanent claim to Spain. But it is well that this first step has been taken; a first step of many that we still believe must be taken to achieve a true evaluation of public policies in Spain that is effective, comprehensive and truly independent. For this reason, Citizens we have been the ones who have believed most in this initiative and those who have worked most actively in it. Of the one hundred amendments to the draft, thirty-six are ours and nineteen have been included directly or by way of compromise in the opinion we are debating today. That is why we are satisfied and voting yes, but at the same time we are aware that it is not the whole law of public policy evaluation that we need in Spain. We keep alive for this plenary nine of our amendments, numbers 36, 37, 48, 56, 59, 62, 67, 69 and 70. They aim to increase the administrative scope to be evaluated, because we believe that this law has, indeed, to have an integral and non-residual vocation to analyze or evaluate sectors of the General Administration of the State that no longer have a process of evaluation of their own, but that, for example, it is not established in a legal way, as it tries to do this law. And we also want every evaluation to always draw up a plan for the use of results that sets out concrete actions based on the evaluation that is carried out. We believe, on the other hand, that the new agency should already be created through this law, as indicated by Law 40/2015 itself, and not that it merely authorizes its creation, something we have not just understood. We also find it necessary to give researchers access to the results of the evaluation, precisely in order to ensure that this research, result and evaluation are more transparent and thus to achieve more effective results. We also propose a public policy experimentation unit that will make it possible to make progress through evaluation innovation. And finally, we propose a series of reforms in Law 19/2013, on transparency, access to public information and good governance; a rule that we really believe requires a review after almost a decade of validity. We want to start now and we do so through our amendments; for example, not to limit access to data from the Administration, which are of all and have often been paid for by everyone, moving away from alleged intellectual property rights by the Government; or, also, to clarify the calculation of time limits in requests for information by those administered; or, finally, to implement a sanctioning regime in a rule that sets obligations for the Administration and its officials, but that does not, however, set out what happens if they are not complied with. It is precisely in order to improve this law, ladies and gentlemen, that we call for support for the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u66	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u67	I'll step in from the seat. Thank you, President. I would simply like to point out that this is a law on the evaluation of public policies of the State and that our amendments have basically referred to the application of this law to this subjective area and not to an extension to the autonomous communities, because they already have their own laws and because they are the ones who have the means to carry out the instruments of evaluation and accountability. On the other hand, I want to defend the amendment that has remained alive, which has to do with the subjective scope of these evaluation policies. The State, as always, has withdrawn the Armed Forces from the scope of this law. Bearing in mind that we are all organizations that we pay for, as I indicated a moment ago, we understand that in substance the assessment and accountability of the Armed Forces must be within this possibility of being assessed ex ante and ex post and of exercising that element of accountability. We therefore keep this amendment alive and, of course, we call for your support. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u69	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that my parliamentary group, the VOX Group, is in favour of the evaluation of public policies, provided that its purpose is to analyse and highlight the impact of such policies on issues as crucial for citizenship as the unity of Spain and national sovereignty; territorial cohesion and equality between Spaniards; the environment and rural Spain; the protection of the socio-economically disadvantaged; depopulation and the demographic challenge; economic growth; decent, stable and quality employment; intergenerational solidarity; and the just redistribution of wealth, among others, while respecting the legal and constitutional order of our nation. What we do not agree with is that it should be done in the proposed way, creating three new bodies: the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies, the Higher Evaluation Commission and the General Evaluation Council. At present, the Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies already exists in Spain and, in our view, it is not justified from the perspective of reducing public expenditure, efficiency and budgetary balance that what is now an agency is divided into three. In parliamentary technique, the law is very bad, it is very poorly structured and very poorly drafted, and it gives the impression that it has been drafted by the gentleman to whom they are going to entrust the management of that agency. [[Laughter and applause]] As I was saying, there is now an institute and, of course, that of being a director of the same institute sounded bad to him and they said: let's put state agency, which sounds nicer to be director of a state agency, because it doesn't make any sense. Where appropriate, what should be done was to provide the current institute with the necessary resources and to expand or strengthen its powers. Currently, the Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policy has the following functions, which coincide with what is contained in the draft law, but are divided into three agencies: evaluation of public policies, plans and programmes in coordination with ministerial departments; promotion of the culture of public policy evaluation; preparation, dissemination and publication of reports, technical documents and other documents of interest and methodologies and evaluation guides; training in public policy evaluation and, in particular, training of public employees in this area, in coordination with INAP; the instrumental support necessary to carry out the analyses required by the modernization or planning processes that are being promoted; and participation in agencies, organizations and forums related to the evaluation of public policies with collaborative options. Of course, it does not contain anything that this should be done with a gender perspective and based on the dogmas of the 2030 Agency, which is what you like and, then, you decide that we need to change it. On the other hand, the definition made by the current Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies of the activity and purposes of the evaluation of public policies is also consistent with what is contained in the draft law. First, the current institute defines the evaluation of public policies as the systematic and reasoned process of knowledge generation from the collection, analysis and interpretation of information, aimed at the overall understanding of a public intervention - whether it be a policy, plan, program or norm - to achieve an evidence-based value judgement regarding its design, implementation and effects. It is literal as it comes in the bill. Secondly, with regard to the purposes of the evaluation, the institute stresses, as the draft law also does, that the evaluation promotes transparency and accountability of citizens and contributes to the improvement of democratic quality, assists in evidence-based decision-making, promotes effectiveness and efficiency in public action by promoting greater rationality of public expenditure, serves learning and contributes to the improvement of the strategic and operational dimension of public action and encourages participation in public action. In our opinion, this bill is one more example of the socialcommunist legislation, which loves to create chiringuitos, to act as a agency for the placement of friends of the government, and hence creates agency, commission and advice to place three directors general, deputy directors general, friends... We see no point in it, and that is why we have tabled a total of 30 amendments which respond to these four proposals. First, to make ex ante, intermediate and ex post evaluations mandatory for all public policies and to link them to the expenditure monitoring activity of the AIReF. Secondly, change the criteria of public value, final objectives and indicators that will determine the evaluation of public policies and define them in a closed and objective way to avoid their instrumentalization in the service of left-wing ideologies and globalist agendas. Thirdly, to abolish new equipment, units or bodies - as I said before, nothing less than three - which is covered by the bill. And fourthly, to reduce the periodicity of public policy assessment plans that are required of the Government and ministerial departments. Well, none of our 30 amendments have been accepted in the Commission, so we are keeping them alive and we are going to put them to your consideration. Mr. President, I conclude. Once again, it is shown that this Government is thinking of the welfare of politicians rather than the welfare of citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u70	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u71	President, Members, the evaluation of public policies is an essential tool to improve the implementation of government actions, to have more effective and efficient policies, as well as to be accountable to citizens. The OECD has highlighted the importance of institutionalizing the evaluation of public policies to improve the use of public resources and to make decision-making more transparent. In the same vein, the European Union has been insisting on the desirability of creating a regulatory framework covering all evaluation processes. With the governments of the People's Party, through the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations, created in October 2012, a great boost was given to evaluation through the analysis of the situation of the public sector, improving its functioning and reducing its costs. [[CORA]] Also, through the Organic Law 6/2013, establishing the AIReF, and the Law 19/2013, on transparency, access to public information and good governance, great progress has been made in strengthening public services by safeguarding the budgetary stability of the government's economic policy and facilitating adequate public sector funding; the public sector has also been endowed with great transparency by introducing a number of accountability mechanisms to citizens. There are already a number of units within the General Administration of the State with competence for evaluation, for example, the activities of service inspections, also quality inspections, monitoring and regulatory evaluation, etc. But there is no one-size-fits-all approach to public policy evaluation. That is why, from our parliamentary group, we have set out to establish a common methodology, on a cross-cutting basis, which covers all sectors and serves the essential purpose of ensuring that government actions have a real impact on the living conditions of citizens and also on the exercise of their rights, which we believe is absolutely necessary, since we have a government whose actions are absolutely irresponsible, unthinkable and lack transparency. As far as transparency is concerned, we have the most opaque government of democracy, with almost three complaints every day before the Transparency Council for refusing to give information to citizens. We also have an irresponsible government, in which President Sánchez spends the money of all Spaniards for the sole purpose of buying wills and getting support to survive in Moncloa. And we have an unthinking government that abuses the decree law, circumventing the controls of the consultative bodies of the State and also usurping this House from the serene and calm parliamentary debate. In the presentation of this law we have tabled technical amendments aimed at improving and clarifying the text; a text that is absolutely far-fetched, repetitive and sometimes unintelligible because of the lack of rigour and indefiniteness of its concepts. We have proposed the elimination of unnecessary bodies that, far from facilitating evaluation processes, are entangled and hampering the work to be carried out by the evaluation agency established under this law. Amendments that have been aimed at increasing the internal and external transparency of the Administration, ensuring that the results-use plans are then implemented by the relevant ministries. Within the agency's structure we have also proposed the inclusion of a unit of experimentation, whose competences, in addition to carrying out a series of pilot projects, would be to carry out small-scale evaluations before raising them to the national level. In summary, we consider it necessary to structure the public policy evaluation system of the General State Administration as a tool for improving public service, accountability and transparency, with the aim, as I said, of achieving effectiveness and efficiency in political action. We are convinced that the evaluation of public policies will contribute to the reflection on decision-making and to the knowledge of the impact that a given public action has on citizens; that we really see the impact that it has had on the implementation of certain public and political actions and decisions. That is why our amendments have been aimed at improving this law and giving it greater technical and legal rigour so that it can be a real tool for evaluating public policies. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the amendments that our group has kept alive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u72	Thank you. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u73	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We value this project as a substantial advance in public policy. The evaluation of public policies in order to optimize the use of scarce resources to achieve maximum social welfare and greater equity before choosing a measure, and also to evaluate its capacity and effectiveness a posteriori, is a traditional deficiency that we have in Spain. The lack of evaluation of the policies that have taken place in the country has surely missed the possibility of knowing the real effects of many policies designed not always on criteria of efficiency, social equity and territorial cohesion, so it is evident that in Spain the outstanding evaluation is one that focuses on the contribution of each of the policies to contribute to the territorial balance. We do not have an assessment of the extent to which development-oriented sectoral policies have been designed and implemented with this objective of balance, for example, in order to reflect and analyse the extent to which a particular policy has contributed to the fight against depopulation. It is essential to ask for the design of the following policies to be better and more efficient. As the explanatory statement points out, public policy evaluation should be an essential tool for improving government actions, as it favours informed decision-making and serves as an element for proposing possible corrections. We have made contributions to the extent of our possibilities, although we would have liked the law to contemplate more decisively and accurately the assessment from the perspective of the contribution to this territorial cohesion. Article 4 (e) of the draft law - which refers to the final objectives of the evaluation of public policies - incorporates that the evaluation of public policies will aim to contribute to improving the situation of the challenges of society and sustainable development, such as combating depopulation and territorial cohesion; equal treatment and opportunities between women and men; decent, stable and quality employment; meeting the needs of socially vulnerable groups and environmental sustainability, among others. Article 6 (g) - common technical aspects in the design of public policies - states that the following components are common technical aspects in the design of these policies: intergenerational balance; demographic challenge and territorial cohesion; digital transformation; social and environmental sustainability; and social inclusion of persons and groups in situations of social vulnerability. In any case, even if this is taken up, we believe that the implementation of the law will need to ensure that the fight against depopulation and territorial cohesion are taken up as one of the components of public policy assessment. A very important step of the law in this respect is that transactional number 8 with Teruel Existe gives rise to a new additional sixth provision whereby the Government will promote a rural guarantee mechanism, ensuring the participation of stakeholders interested in its design and implementation. This mechanism shall include, in any case, the incorporation of the assessment of the territorial and environmental effects and rural society of public policies, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.1 of this Law, and also the development of a specific evaluation methodology taking into account the principles, recommendations and tools proposed by the European Union in this area. We would have liked more detail and detail in the drafting of this additional provision, as well as transferring the link with the rural guarantee mechanism to other articles. In any case, we want to insist on the value and meaning of this law on public policy assessment to reflect that figure which creates the rural guarantee mechanism and which must have further development. It is simply a question of applying in Spain the Rural Proofing that is being designed and implemented in European countries. You know that this is a demand that Teruel Existe has transferred to this House and it will surely be necessary to discuss and analyse the content and regulation of this rural guarantee mechanism. From our point of view, this mechanism should carry out, within the framework of the evaluation of public policies, the analysis, evaluation and correction of these policies from a territorial cohesion and combating depopulation approach, and should focus its approach in accordance with the provisions of this law and taking into account the real and potential impacts and their effects on rural areas with regard to certain aspects that are fundamental to them such as prosperity; strengthening value chains; increasing rural employment; knowledge and innovation in social and economic activities; preserving rural life; the social well-being of their communities; cultural life; improving governance; landscape care; environmental quality; territorial sustainability; biodiversity; managing natural resources; promoting climate action and caring for the natural environment. Similarly, we believe that a specific evaluation methodology should be developed taking into account the principles, recommendations and tools proposed by the European Union in this area and that it should apply the principles contained in this law. It will be necessary for this methodology for the preparation of impact reports on territorial cohesion, depopulation and rural environment to form part of the legal reports and memory of any draft law and for this methodology to progressively adapt existing laws with regard to their impact on territorial cohesion, depopulation and rural environment. It seems essential, therefore, that a real decree or similar figure shortly implements the rural guarantee mechanism and that this public policy tool be integrated into the Public Policy Evaluation Agency that creates this bill. For us, this bill is a substantial step forward in establishing for the first time the rural guarantee mechanism in Spain, which we hope will be developed urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u74	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u75	Thank you very much, President. I will speak briefly from the seat simply to express and reiterate our vote in favour of the Commission's opinion on the draft law on the evaluation of public policies, insofar as we consider it a fundamental step in the right direction for the improvement of public services provided by the General Administration of the State, thus contributing to the effectiveness and efficiency of public action, and also a step in the right direction for accountability and transparency, which will ultimately lead to the deepening of democracy, as the European Union itself has shown. In short - and I conclude - ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, this is a very important step in the right direction to which we will give our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u76	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. In our group we will vote in favour of the opinion and against all the amendments that have been kept alive. We understand that it is a good law that follows the approach that we believe is right for the implementation of the evaluation of public policies and, above all and above all, it moves away from any temptation to establish the evaluation of public policies as a kind of technocratic corset to condition the decision-making processes and the processes of implementation of those measures, programmes or laws that are passed in parliaments and are applied by democratically elected governments. The law, as has been said, responds to the requirements that have been made for years by both the OECD and the European Union for States to implement and systematize evaluation policies with the idea of improving decision-making, improving accountability and transparency and making effective and efficient use of public resources. In particular, this law fits into reform 1 of component 11 of the commitments made by the State and Government of Spain within the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan, and constitutes the milestone ICD 146. We believe that the objective of the law, which is dictated in its article 1, is perfectly fulfilled in the design that has been made of the text. We do not share the opinion of VOX's spokesperson; we believe that the attempt to systematize evaluation policies is fully covered, and there is nothing in that process that is outside the scope of the law. Another thing is that, being a law of a basic nature, there will still be development regulations through the corresponding regulations, but the law defines the different types of evaluation that will be carried out during the process, both in terms of its content and in terms of the time when it will be applied; it defines the process in its different stages and its various requirements; it points out who, when and how the evaluation will be carried out; it talks about the establishment of different types of indicators that will apply to such assessments; it implements a system of governance for the matter, and we believe that this is all that is needed for such a law. Another thing will be its development and application over time, but we cannot share that view that it is a law that is poorly raised from a technical point of view. Elements we like especially? On the one hand, the fact that they are going to lay the foundations for implementing the use of these indicators that will make the evaluation processes possible in a comparative way and that they are mainly aimed at the creation of a corpus of scientific knowledge that will be consulted and will be available to the different researchers and that in the long run can serve to improve the decision-making process, as mentioned above. We also like that it goes far beyond what would be the economic and budgetary assessment itself. Throughout the law, mention is made of the need to measure the impact that public policies can have on issues such as gender equality; the environment; the energy transition; the extension of social rights; depopulation; the demographic challenge; economic growth; decent, stable and quality employment; intergenerational solidarity; redistribution of wealth, etc. We believe that this is the right approach to evaluation, which must be the way in which the impact of public policies on the lives of societies is measured, on the objectives to be determined, and we like to see it move away from that other framework that is established mainly through the control of the budgetary and fiscal impacts that policies have, as has been customary so far. Having said that, we believe that this is not a baladi issue, but a key element. Interventions such as that of the spokesman for the Citizens' Group make clear the vision of the evaluation that some groups here have and, for example, pressure groups that operate from outside this House but that often condition what is done inside, as can be, for example, what comes from the Fedea sphere. Fedea's criticism of the law is that it is a disappointing, unambitious and confusing text, and is based primarily on her understanding that there is no real independence from the work of the Government. We understand that the role of evaluation is, indeed, to confirm that policies meet the objectives proposed, but taking into account all these social and rights issues and to contribute to the development of society from the point of view of equity and the components that make societies progress beyond the budgetary aspects. When approaches are made to create, for example, an independent authority that converts evaluation into a kind of IREF of evaluation and, as the spokesman for the VOX Group has openly said, that it could even function in a coordinated manner with IREF so that evaluation policies are determined by the rigour of budgetary issues and all this is incorporated into the decision-making process with that perspective, we understand that it would be a serious attack on the functioning of democracy and that it should be very vigilant for this never to happen. This law does not happen, fortunately, but I think it is clear that there are groups that will do their utmost to make this happen in the future. You'll have to be alert so this doesn't happen. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u78	Thank you. Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u79	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On a day like today, marked by a wide list of legislative projects, I want to start by saying that this is an important law, ladies and gentlemen, because it establishes an institutionalization of the evaluation of public policies in the General Administration of the State. I believe that it is necessary to bear in mind in my first analysis that it is, of course, an essential tool for improving government action, that progresses towards more effective and efficient public policies, that it is an ideal element in the deepening of democracy and transparency and that its scope is the General Administration of the State. This bill was based on public consultation and citizen participation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u80	Wait a minute, Your Honor. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u81	Thank you, President. But, honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I believe - and I say this firmly - that in the parliamentary process it has also achieved, thanks to this participation, important improvements with respect to the draft law submitted and, moreover, agreements that seal a draft law with interesting improvements. I think we need to be proud to draw up a law that improves the project that came to this House. The Socialist Group has always reached out and put forward the search for agreements on such an important subject, and that is why nine amendments have been accepted and another nineteen have been negotiated, of all the political groups, except, of course, those who are not seeking reason but other issues. And, ladies and gentlemen, I say this loud and clear: In the evaluation of public policies, the Socialist Party and this parliamentary group have always been at the forefront of their demand and implementation, and today we endorse it for the first time in our country with a law to further progress in this direction. I would like to thank the rapporteurs of all the parliamentary groups and that of the Ministry's team through the Secretariat of State for Public Service for their willingness to cooperate in these agreements, and all, of course, ladies and gentlemen, always in the spirit of progress and improvement, and also - I think we have done so with this draft law - with rigour. This bill will place the institutionalisation of the evaluation of public policies at the most advanced European level by opting for a high-level standard, since it is a law, which is also dedicated exclusively to the public evaluation system from a systemic and comprehensive perspective, covering the entire cycle of public policy: planning, its impacts, the evaluation process and its organization, in recommendation, as one of the rapporteurs has said, of the OECD Council itself, and also, of course, with the commitment of the Government of Spain, of the President himself to European milestones, the commitments of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, within component 11. And we have seen in this debate, ladies and gentlemen, an issue which I believe is no longer news but a tremendous reality. It is made in PP, that is, how to look for excuses in front of parliamentary initiatives not to support them, of which today we have found a new example. A law that is committed to greater democracy and greater transparency, ladies and gentlemen, always has the weight of the People's Party. It's because they like to talk a lot about these concepts, but when they have to apply it, they always shine for their absence. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you clearly that the citizens of our country know that you are becoming constitutional anti-systems. We have been seeing this for four years with regard to the lack of renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. This legal text, whose processing will conclude after its passage through the Senate, analyzes and highlights fundamental aspects in the public policies of our country: the improvement of the state of welfare, equality, the environment and the ecological transition, the extension of the law of citizenship, the demographic challenge, economic growth, decent, stable and quality employment, intergenerational solidarity, the redistribution of wealth and the SDGs of the 2030 Agenda. It is, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this legal text which is an integral and transversal law, which once again puts our country, as I said before, at the forefront of Europe, while requiring a journey of implementation for this new culture of evaluation. Surely this is the second milestone by which to the right this, the new culture of evaluation, on which many advocate, although where they govern do completely the opposite of what they say here. [[Applauds]] I would like to stress that the progress made in evaluating public policies in our country bears the mark of the Socialist Party, which has always carried it in the democratic history of our country. As the AIReF carries out and will continue to carry out ex post evaluations, with this new legal text what we will achieve is that progress is made in the evaluation of the design, implementation and results of these policies, so that, in collaboration with other agencies, as the law itself indicates, with the government's INE and strategic evaluation plan and a new departmental evaluation plan, we will put in place these tools so necessary for the evaluation, that this legal text makes clear that it is independent, objective and participatory, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, positively affects citizens. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies offers independence, autonomy and also supervision and coordination, elements necessary for these public policies. What has been said here about the general assessment board is false, it does not mean an increase in public expenditure. Mr Del Valle, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, I understand that you are always betrayed by the subconscious. Look at the exercise of political funambulism that they have done: first they accept that what a socialist government has put in place, that is, the Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies, is positive, but then they use it to criticize the new advances. Mr Del Valle, take advantage today, Mr Abascal, since we have him here on a few occasions, to explain to him what is the biggest little boy that has been created in the history of our country. [[Applauds]] In my land, in Castile and León, there is a Vice President of the Government with a quite interesting staff and without any charge, she is only dedicated to tweeting and insulting citizens. In addition, you can also offer a thesis on chiringuitos with the Foundation for Sponsorship and Social Sponsorship, to which you were a part, collecting 83 000 euros a year for the benefit of citizens in all aspects, so take advantage, which has a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u82	Your Honor, thank you very much. We have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u83	Yes, I say we continue along this path and, of course, we will pass this very important law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u84	Thank you. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING THE NATIONAL ORDER TO THE REGULATION 2018/1727 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 14 NOVEMBER 2018 ON EUROJUST, AND THE LEGAL CONFLICT, THE INTERNATIONAL LEGAL COOPERATION NETWORKS AND THE PERSONAL DEPENDENT OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE ON THE OUTSIDE. [[EU]] [[File number 121/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u85	Draft law adapting the national legislation to European Union Regulation 2018/1727 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on Eurojust, and regulating conflicts of jurisdiction, international legal cooperation networks and personnel under the Ministry of Justice abroad. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Europe is more than just a set of freedoms of movement of goods, services, people and capital. Europe is also a community of rights with a charter of citizenship rights and, above all, it is and must be an area not only of freedoms, but also of security and justice. And precisely in this pillar, that of justice, which carries with it the security of freedoms, is where the law that we are going to adopt here, the law that establishes a system of selection that guarantees principles of transparency and meritocracy in the election of the national members of Eurojust. Eurojust is an organisation within the European Union that aims to enhance judicial cooperation in all cases of prosecution of cross-border crimes, because crimes within the European Union do not know borders. And it has to be said that Eurojust has an absolutely obvious role to play in the prosecution of these crimes, with more than 10,000 cases a year, where the Spanish delegation has a very significant relevance, having carried 818 cases in 2021 and being the third most required delegation of assistance by the rest of the European delegations. Its functions, as I say, are to enhance this pillar of cooperation and coordination in the field of justice, in accordance with Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And the Europeanists, the parliamentary groups that we believe in Europe, that is, those that we do not come here to talk about Europe as the multicultural cynicism or these other parliamentary groups that are dedicated to insulting Europe, we believe precisely in that judicial cooperation. Today, the Central Electoral Board is replying to the European Parliament on whether Puigdemont is, in fact, a European parliamentarian or not. In short, the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the Advocate General of the European Union has already reported positively, will have to resolve the question referred for a preliminary ruling with regard to the European arrest and surrender order for Carlos Puigdemont himself. Well, here some groups in the House can see the glass half empty, we see it half full, and with laws like this one fills this glass a little bit more, just as we consider with our vote in favour of the law of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and of the delegated European Public Prosecutor's Office. Thus, we find that the European framework to which we are adapting seeks to make the selection of Eurojust's national members more transparent, that there is greater equality between candidates and that there is democratic regeneration, the modernisation of institutions and political neutrality, which is in the DNA, which is the flag of Citizens, of the Spanish liberals. That is what we believe we should support. And why? Should we suspect the Spanish Government that it is not paying attention to merit and capacity and that it is trying to politicize all the institutions? Obviously, that's right. We have nothing more to do with the General Council of the Judiciary, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, Spanish Radio and Television, the Agency for the Protection of Data. The law of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which was delegated a few days ago to the State Official Gazette, in particular on 19 October, was adopted by Royal Decree 882/2022, establishing the selection commission for the election of these European public prosecutors, who try to prosecute transnational crimes within the European Union. Well, in this selection committee, those who have to choose these prosecutors, there are only politicians, there are no technicians. A selection commission could have been formed, for example, consisting of lawyers of recognized competence with more than five years of professional practice, lawyers in office, judges, prosecutors, with mandatory opinions of the Fiscal Council itself, consults the associations of judges and prosecutors, but not all are directors-general and secretaries of State of the Ministry of Justice to appoint the amiguetes, their own. Therefore, all these kinds of laws that, according to the European framework, try to target appointments, seem good to us, and it also looks good to the whole House, and this is a miracle. In the Commission, the report of the presentation was adopted unanimously at the end. We are keeping alive two amendments which are precisely trying to enhance that transparency, that regeneration and the principle of merit and capacity in selection. The first one seeks not only judges and magistrates to be able to occupy the position of assistant to the national member of Eurojust, since here there is a clear corporatismism of judges, judges and prosecutors as a result of the fact that in the Ministry of Justice the head of the ex-judged ministry and is full of judges and judges. Why can't you assist the national member of Eurojust, for example, a national police officer, a civilian guard or any other official who has required a degree in law in order to gain access to his or her profession? Secondly, we also intend that the work interviews for the selection of these posts be recorded and hung on the Internet, as is the case with the selection of Supreme Court judges, who are hung on the Internet and all citizens can see. But what does the Government of Spain tell us? It refers to the data protection wild and says it cannot be done. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible, when this is the case in the Supreme Court, to hang these interviews. In short, many of us suspect that after passing this law the government will arrive with the next royal decree, create a selection commission made up of politicians and again want the prominent national member of Eurojust to be someone of their own accord. It's over now. My friends judges and magistrates who claim to have a position of relevance of discretionary appointment, do you know that they tell you when you ask them what they do to give you that position? They answer that I have a certain budget to invite to eat and dinner the one who has to name it. Let's get this over with. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u87	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause]] It is not in the Chamber. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will speak very briefly. This Eurojust bill involves adapting state legislation, the decision already taken in 2002 with the European directive and thus facilitating the articulation of procedures for the cooperation of judicial authorities in cases of organised crime. I am speaking very briefly just to indicate that we will vote in favour of this draft and to make it clear that, in the usual delay in the Spanish State's adaptation of directives, it is true that the regulation that was published was already directly applicable, although it was necessary to make some adjustments with regard to the 2015 legislation, specifically Law 16/2015, and therefore we look forward to the adaptation that is being made with this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u89	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, President, we are going to adapt our internal rules to the European Union regulation on Eurojust, the European agency which guarantees coordination and cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Member States with regard to criminal conduct affecting two or more States. We will thus ensure legal certainty, the principles of transparency and efficiency, providing Eurojust with a framework to coordinate the work of national justice authorities in investigating and prosecuting transnational crimes committed by criminal organisations, such as terrorism, cyberattacks, drug trafficking and other complex crimes. And, of course, the meaning of our vote is going to be favourable, because this is a commitment to independent justice in Europe. But what interest can the People's Party have in Eurojust, an independent show of justice, when they are committed to political control of justice, regardless of its degradation? The People's Party maintains its particular coup d'état in one of the three branches of the State, the Judicial Power, for four years now, and uses it as a hostage to attempt to strike another coup, in this case the Legislative Power, in the purest style of not recognizing that they are in a parliamentary minority situation. They deny the legitimacy of the government elected by the majority and intend to self-prosecute the majority of the laws to be passed. Those who use serious threats block the issuance of votes by members of Congress commit a crime against the high institutions of the State or are prisoners of sedition who rise up to prevent by force or outside the legal channels the application of the laws, says our Criminal Code, but you feel in absolute impunity. After all, it was about controlling the Supreme Court's Criminal Chamber from behind, Cosidó dixit. Dozens of excuses have been used to block the Council's renewal pact since 2018 to wear down the coalition government with the blockade of institutions. The reform of the sedition offence or its requirement to reform the system of election of the council have been some of the reasons given by the People's Party not to fulfil its obligation to renew the council, in both cases requiring the parliamentary majority to legislate in accordance with the wishes of a minority. That is very similar to what dictatorships do, and they justified their seditious attitude that in this Congress there were parliamentary groups that question the monarchy, criticized the highly reprehensible actions of the emeritus king or there were agreements between parties with parliamentary representation that are not to his liking; agreements that have allowed, for example, three years of general budgets of the expanding state, drawing out two economic crises from the hardest of the last few years. Likewise, the presence of the United Nations We can in the Government and its right to participate in any renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary has been another argument of the People's Party not to comply, such as the general elections of 2019, the Catalan elections, the Madrid elections or the Andalusian elections afterwards. And, of course, the pardons to the process leaders were also other justifications for their particular blow to justice. And they were also justified with the vetoes to join the General Council of the Judiciary José Ricardo de Prada, the only Spanish judge at the United Nations international judges' meeting, and Victoria Rosell, both victims of different versions of judicial war against her. And finally, it was invented that Europe required judges to choose judges, when the fact is that the European Union does not demand anything, it only recommends, and in each country there is a different model of management of the judiciary. You have condemned justice to collapse, with ninety-four places of high courts not covered, although you continue to argue that in democracy a General Council of the Judiciary, with its expired mandate, should continue to appoint judges to the courts, as did the current General Council of the Judiciary, already defeated, until the law was reformed so that it would not continue to do so; up to seventy-eight appointments did not have any legitimacy for it. And it's the third time that the People's Party, after losing an election, has fallen under the control of the judiciary. This seditious attitude has allowed the right to decide most of the appointments of judges in the Supreme Court, in passing shielding against their countless cases of corruption. In the Popular Party of Feijóo it seems that the saints and the world command more than their national leadership. No wonder, the People's Party, after all, has been founded by high officials of the Franco dictatorship and at the very least they reproduce contempt for the laws and the Constitution, so typical of the Franco dictatorship. [[Protests]] His attitude is a real disgrace to Spanish democracy. And let us hope that they think about it and that once and for all they will put themselves on the task of complying with the Constitution and the law and stop acting like anti-systems. [[Mr Guijarro García utters words that are not perceived.- Mrs Moralesja Gómez: Extremeist!-Protests]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u91	Mr Guijarro, Mrs Moraleja, I beg you to continue. [[Mr. Guijarro García: And Mr. Hispan]] Allow me to call the order, Mr. Guijarro. When I touch you one day, you will, but now it's up to me. [[Rumors]] Mr Guijarro, Mrs Moraleja, please let us continue the debate. Mr Zambrano García-Raez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u92	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Eurojust is indeed an agency that allows us to fight effectively against organised cross-border crime and every time its results are analysed, its usefulness becomes more evident. The recent Eurojust reports and the European Parliament's last budgetary control report show us their intense activity. I would like to make it clear to you that from such reports there is a great deal of emphasis on the mention of the fight against criminal illegal immigrant trafficking organizations. It is a matter that not only concerns us with the security of our streets and the exploitation and risk of vulnerable people, because already in 2015 Eurojust warned us of the entry of radical Islamists through these Mafia networks. To suppress these illegal immigration mafias in recent years Eurojust's operations have been greatly intensified, and some of them with detainees in Spain. In this regard, it is curious that in 2016 the PSOE strongly criticized the then government for the lack of police action - he said - in Spain against this type of mafia, and, however, on questions from the VOX Group, the government has acknowledged that during this socialist government the number of organizations and of this type of mafia operating in Spain has doubled. This demonstrates the inconsistency of the socialist government and that we should not just adapt this regulation to Spanish legislation, but should be providing the police with means and abandoning these policies with so-called effect that these mafias are so much profited by. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would like to mention that the text that is being produced today envisages that both the Spanish national member and deputy and assistant in Eurojust will be members of the judicial or prosecutorial career. We believe that they are the best possible professionals for these types of posts and we cannot agree with the amendment by Citizens, which opens the door to the integration of other types of officials. We have magnificent judges and prosecutors, and although political power has been mistreating both the judicial and fiscal careers by pressing for their political control, appointing a socialist minister as a prosecutor general, doing everything possible, in the end, to control politically the organs of the judiciary, despite all this, judges and prosecutors have remained loyal to their duty and spare no effort in law enforcement. Without doubt, they are the ones who can offer us the best guarantees of professionalism and effectiveness. Finally, I believe that this law will be adopted with the virtually unanimous support of the House. When this happens, it is customary to hear from the Government or the Socialist Group some self-praising for consensus in the vote. Indeed, it has already happened in some other initiative that a majority vote is used by the Government to appear to the gallery a certain will towards political consensus. But let us not be fooled, this type of technical legislation is supported by common sense, and not by consensus, and this Government, however much it says or presumes, does not know what consensus is. [[Applauds]] This Government and the political groups that support it from what they do know are political marketing, which is very different from consensus. They have left us with evidence over and over again, because consensus is not to exchange pardons for coup criminals in exchange for parliamentary support; that is political marketing. Consensus is not to water a communist ministry with millions of euros from all Spaniards to keep a few more months in power. Nor is it consensus to promise to reform the charter the crime of sedition or the division of members of the General Council of the Judiciary between political groups or to look elsewhere while the law is being breached in Catalonia or to access absurd laws that run counter to common sense; all in exchange for power, to remain in power. That's not consensus, that's marketing, that's deal. We don't have rulers, we have traffickers. [[Applauds]] There is consensus when different groups direct their talks towards the general interest, for the good of Spain, not when the purpose is the personal interest, the partyist, the power for power, and the regret of this political marketing in which the Government has settled, the Spanish end up paying for it with their freedom and economy. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u93	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are going to pass adapting to the Spanish legal order the European Union Regulation 2018/1727 on Eurojust, the content of which Mr Edmundo Bal has explained and which - as he has said - has been adopted in the Commission unanimously, shows that it is possible to govern quite differently from the one we are accustomed to by the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] It also shows that when the Socialist Party is open to hearing the proposals, ideas and amendments of the rest of the parliamentary groups, work can be done in another way. It shows that when it opens up to some amendments, to compromise others, to find meeting points and to find common places, it is possible to reach agreements; it is possible, ladies and gentlemen. And, of course, it basically shows one thing: that whenever this attitude occurs, the People's Party will accept, propose and enter into the debate, as it has done with Eurojust, because we will vote yes so that that rule which is positive for the whole of Spain will be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, to the always'moderate' Mr. Santiago, heir to the murderous Stalinism with more than a hundred million dead under your conscience, I would like to remind you that this is the 'tolerance' that you showed at your congress, when you ended- and I regret having to use your words - to hostias - to hostias, to hostias - with a person who dared to take the opposite from you. [[applause]] However, you come out here to qualify the People's Party with a series of ex-abrupts that I'm already telling you we're not going to waste time answering. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we cannot understand is why the Socialist Party does not always try to govern in the same way as it has done with this bill within the framework of the Committee on Justice. We do not understand why they confuse the general interest with the particular and electoral interests of Mr Sánchez, as has happened with the negotiation of the General Council of the Judiciary and as happens in the day-to-day work of this House. We also do not understand why they claim, when this happens, that the People's Party has to go along with their claims while they deal with those who want to break Spain. Socialists, you may be surprised by what I am going to tell you, but for the People's Party it is not the same Kenya as Senegal, it is not the same Fray Luis de León as San Juan de la Cruz and it is not the same Ana as her sister, but above all, it is not the same thing to defend the rule of law than not to do so and it is not the same to believe in judicial independence and the separation of powers as not to believe in them. You know very well that whenever you put the general interest before the attempt to screw Mr Sánchez into the presidential chair, you will be able to count on the People's Party, because we are a party with a State vocation; but not when it comes to putting a red carpet on Mr Puigdemont or articulating a covert amnesty for those convicted of the process negotiated behind the backs of public opinion and by reforming the crimes of rebellion and sedition for those who were convicted of convening an illegal referendum. [[applause]] That's why they don't count on us. You can change sedition for budgets, prisoners for budgets, pardons - including Mr Griñán's - for budgets, but do not count on the People's Party for that, because we will not be accomplices. For us, victims and executioners - and I say this for those who support their government work - are not the same, so do not count on us to strain the Supreme Court, as you have been doing. And if the vacancies occur, Mr Santiago, it is because you have denied the power of the members in office to move forward with the appointments. They do not attribute the Supreme Court's stalemate to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And know that neither will they be able to count on us when it comes to handing over the institutions of the Spanish State for independence to destroy them. Nor will they be able to rely on us to humiliate the Spanish nation, nor will they be able to rely on us as long as the Government is hostage to those who want to break national unity and break the constitutional pact. We will not be complicit in the attempt to blow up the constitutional pact that protects our coexistence and that you propose to liquidate so that Sanchez will be screwed to the Moncloa chair at least until 2050, as I was saying today. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the ministers spoke a lot about the General Council of the Judiciary. I will tell you that the People's Party has negotiated in good faith the renewal of the Council, while the President of the Government promised one day to make Puigdemont available to Spanish justice and the next day promised him pardon in the House of the Republic of Waterloo. We already found out who the person who went there to propose it to him. He proposes a covert amnesty and return to Spain with rositas, as if nothing had happened, free of charge and free of all responsibility, which is a shame. We have acted in good faith in the renewal of the Council, while the President of the Government promised one day that the judges would be elected by the judges - remember your tweet and have no memory of fish; words of the President of the Government backed by the tweets and messages of the Socialist Group - and the next day affirmed the PSOE that will never allow the change in the model of election of the members of the General Council of the Judicial Power of judicial origin. We have acted in good faith, while the President of the Government promised one day to criminalize the convening of an illegal referendum-remember television, election campaign, debate program of November 19, 2019, if I remember correctly - and the next day it was forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, your lies are more annoying than the drawer that we all have that does not close and our patience and faith are exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by missing the Minister of Justice, as always. He is a person we appreciate personally, but we do not know what role he has played, beyond the irrelevantness of this whole negotiation process, because whenever there is a rule that has to do with his ministry there is the circumstance that he is never present. This is a government - and it has already concluded - mortgaged and genuine to those who intend to overthrow the Constitution and break Spain. And, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be complicit in this betrayal of the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u95	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Santamaría, believe me that I am grateful that you are the rapporteur for the laws and not Mr Feijóo. In fact, when I get the list of rapporteurs from the PP and I see that Mr Feijóo is not here, I am relieved because I know that there will not be a Wasap of Ayuso at the last minute that the pact will break us. So, I am grateful that it is you and not Mr Feijoo who is here negotiating, because I am sure that at the last minute he would receive that wasap that would burst any kind of agreement. As has been said here today, this law that we are debating here today, this transposition of the Commission's regulation, is the result of an agreement that is not very common. This is one of those brief news that is then in the press: Politicians agree. It is a political unicorn that we have brought here, because we have unanimously agreed on this reform in the Commission, despite the words of some spokesman. I, as spokesman for the Socialist Group, for yes, Mr VOX, I am going to highlight this unanimity, I am going to highlight the work and I am going to celebrate this oasis within the awkward politics, the noise, the disqualification, the hypocrisy and the posture that we usually accompany. And, Mr. Speaker of the People's Group, do you want to talk about justice? Do you want to talk about the Council? Hey, let's talk about it without a problem. Look, 1420 days, four years, twenty excuses and two leaders later, you remain on the throne of constitutional disobedience. They are a complex and anti-system party; and because they do not recognize that they are out of legality, they flee forward. You were talking about fish. I make him another similitude: they are the squid party, because, when he is in danger, he throws black ink, dirty, flees forward and embarrasses all politics. Do you know what's going on here? They have zero interest in renewing justice. Do you know what else is going on here? That they are a submissive party with the far right and imbued with the Constitution. But do you also know what's going on here? That you still do not recognize the legitimacy of this government and, by extension, of what citizens voted for; that is why you want to control justice from behind. Anyway, what's up with us, Eurojust. What is Eurojust? I'll take some time to explain this transposition. First, it is judicial cooperation between States and between judicial authorities. Secondly, it is the fight against international crime. Eurojust is a European body dedicated to stimulating and improving judicial coordination and cooperation in the European Union. In addition, Eurojust is a commitment to coordinated judicial work, which is particularly relevant in serious cases and in the fight against organised crime. And it should be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that this Congress recently also regulated Spain's presence and involvement in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why, yes, of course, we are taking necessary steps to strengthen Spain's commitment to judicial cooperation and investigations and the fight against corruption and international crime. Bad day has chosen the spokesman of the People's Group to criticize the government, bad day. Eight laws we're debating today, eight laws. They would have liked to have brought their governments this legislative activity to this House. On the one hand, therefore, a government that respects justice, a government that puts in place the appropriate mechanisms for its improvement and incorporates European legislation. On the other hand, I block, because explain to me what you propose, what your project for justice is, beyond wanting to control it by the back door and to get what the ballot boxes have not given you. You'll have to explain it very slowly, Mr. Santamaría, for me to understand. You with your excuse number twenty to fail to comply with the Constitution, we strengthening international judicial cooperation and the fight against cross-border crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in Parliament for almost three years now and this illegitimate and weak government, as its media speakers point out, and which later here recall some of your ladies and gentlemen in their'respectful' speeches, this government - I repeat - has become a perfectly greased legislative machine, as we do today. And yes, this is Spain, this is also Spain. This happens in Spain, but in Europe the solutions and proposals that come from the Spanish Social Democracy are taken as a reference of Community policies. In Europe, one to discredit and another to export responses to the crisis. In addition, Your Honor, I remind you that we are placing this House where you must be, in the epicenter, in the main place of politics, where you must reside, for the nightmare of your leader; leader without word, powerless and with too many internal mortgages to pay as to be able to exercise politics autonomously. Such is their disbelief and ideological change. Many mortgages still have to pay in order to be able to reach more agreements in this country and, by the way, they still do not give up the influence that the ultra-right has on their leaders and policies, nor will it be that another cover-up spoils an agreement for them. That is why, given the government's lack of general cooperation from the PP, this is the parliamentary strength and political strength of the Spanish Government, a leading and leading president and a coalition government with a strong parliamentary majority to offer citizens and the social majority policies of progress, protection and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u97	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u98	Opinion on the draft law regulating the management system of the common agricultural policy and other related matters. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u99	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Teruel Este has worked to improve specific aspects of the common agricultural policy both in the Commission and in plenary. Although it may appear to be a contradiction or a paradox, this law, like other issues related to agriculture and agricultural policies, also needs to incorporate the rural perspective, the vision of people living in agriculture, especially the vision of their specific daily problems. In this regard, we are concerned about the ban on agricultural burning and pruning that forced farmers to bear an insurmountable cost. We have been with the farmers, many of them have moved this concern to us and today we have transmitted it, and we have seen it personally. Fortunately, this bill has been able to change the situation and eliminate the ban on the burning of plant waste in the agricultural environment, so that the requirements of the autonomous communities regulating this management of agricultural waste must now be adapted. We have long worked to ensure that the implementation of the CAP in Spain will bet and support a model of modern and sustainable agriculture that will encourage genuine and genuine farmers and make family farms profitable. We have also called for the inclusion of the fruit sector in the CAP and have shown our discontent and concern about the unfair treatment given to farmers in the province of Teruel, given that all agricultural regions in the province receive less CAP aid than the rest of Aragon without a substantiated justification. Turkish farmers, regardless of which of the five agricultural regions of the province they belong to, will be in the group that receives the lowest basic income support for sustainability in terms of crops. Then, we will work to ensure that the Turolense farmers perceive an average value per region equal to that of their counterparts in the rest of Aragon and Spain. Along the same lines of improving adaptation for the implementation of the CAP, we have tabled amendments to this law which seeks to transpose European legislation to facilitate the implementation and monitoring of the CAP and the achievement of its objectives. We appreciate that the law is going to mean a breakthrough in enforcement procedures, but we are particularly concerned about the ability of many small farmers to carry out documentation and verification tasks with the computer tools that are being put in place. For this reason, we keep alive the amendment to Article 5, the information system for farms and livestock and for agricultural production, known as SIEX, because we are concerned that no transitional formulas are allowed to this tool, especially for those who may need it for various reasons. It is precisely in rural areas that there is a digital divide that everyone knows about, so that the compulsory use of electronic means for the agricultural sector can turn this obligation into discrimination for individuals, which is certainly contrary to the provisions of Article 14 of the Law on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations. There is an obvious digital divide with repeated incidences such as those that are suffering from the Turolense municipalities of Tornos and Castejón de Tornos, which have been without mobile or fixed telephone coverage for a week. They will understand that this will be difficult from these municipalities to connect with the SIEX system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u100	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know if today overcomes sadness or indignation. Once again, the Government of this country and a submissive parliamentary group are once again putting up the Canary agriculture sector and all the Canary Islands, out of ignorance, because nobody considers it important and everyone considers it to be the function of another. We had only one amendment to adapt the Community's agricultural policy to the conditions of the Canary Islands, which is recognised in European legislation in Article 349 of the Treaty on European Union, where it is specifically established as a mandate to governments and the European Commission that agricultural policies should be adapted to the special circumstances of the Canary Islands - the only community in the European Constitution - and we include the issue of La Palma. We are presenting an amendment which only calls for the Government of the Canary Islands to meet with the Ministry to prepare for the adaptation of the Canary Islands to the new management and for particular consideration to be given to the situation in the agricultural and livestock sector of La Palma. It turns out that the Finance veto because it says that there is no budget line this year for something that is going to be next year. The Commission's lawyer says that economic issues cannot be vetoed, something that corresponds to the next year and that we are now dealing with the budgets, but nothing. This Member proposes to the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we remove the six-month deadline, that the necessary funds be put in place - although the lawyer says that it cannot be vetoed - and that they be offered a compromise and ask them to lift the veto, and that they tell me that the Treasury does not see it. I speak to the Treasury and a very high office of the ministry, the one responsible, tells me that the Treasury has no problems. I talk to Luis Planas and Luis Planas tells me that I am right and that Canarias has to have a different adaptation to the CAP. Monday, as they don't send me any transactional, I send a transactional. Last week the minister told me that he agrees - today he is not here - and that the Ministry of Finance agrees, but they do not. The only thing the amendment says is that Community agricultural policy will be negotiated in the coming months between ministries, as provided for in the European Treaty. In addition, this will be financed by Europe; the Canary Islands CAP has its own financial statement. The Ministry of Finance has said that adapting the Community's agricultural policy in the Canary Islands will cost EUR 5 million; I thought it would be 20 or 30, because there is also La Palma. And now it turns out that, because there are not 5 million in this year, next year we cannot adapt the Community's agricultural policy or take account of the special consideration given to the situation in the agricultural sector in La Palma. I'm indignant. We will do so again in the Senate and I hope that this issue will be a priority for the spokespersons of the Socialist Group, for the spokespersons of agriculture, for the Ministry of Finance and for the Ministry of Agriculture, because for everyone it is important but it is still the house without barriers; in the meantime, agriculture and canary livestock, especially that of La Palma, drifting and with a CAP that does not serve the Canary Islands. For the first time, a nationalist canarian deputy is going to vote against today a CAP that excludes a territory such as the canary. We can't just go on living in tourism. It's already happened with the tomato. [[Show a document]] There were 13,000 people working when I started here as a Member and now there are 3,000 left. There's no right. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u102	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u103	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in this House a law that Spain needs as a Member State to be able to implement the CAP from January next year. Throughout this process, we have seen that it has been a good place to discuss some of the problems that farmers who were waiting to solve. And they were awaiting resolution because on some occasions - too many - we find disconnections between certain ministries; normally, the Ministry of Ecological Transition is always involved with the rest of the ministries. After having tabled an amendment to solve the problem faced by farmers with the burning of agricultural waste, because for them the ban was a major problem that caused them very important costs and even prevented many of them from being able to deal with such waste in another way, it has been negotiated with PeCAT and we believe that it is very important that it has gone ahead by consensus of the whole Commission. For this we have come to politics, to solve the problems of people and, in this case, to solve the problems of farmers. It gives us a lot of joy and we are very proud - I think the whole House too - that no party has opposed this. We have to be happy that farmers today have one less problem, because they have a lot of problems. A transaction was also signed that supported Citizens to provide facilities for people working in rural areas who have to communicate with the Ministry of Finance and make telematic transactions. The Transactional says that means must be put in place by the ministry so that all requests can be sent to them in a way that is - telematically or not - and, on the contrary, so that notifications from the ministry related to the CAP or another aspect of the development of its activity can reach them by whatever means is necessary. Because we have to remember that there are still many areas in the rural environment that do not have the Internet and there are even many farmers and farmers who find it very difficult to deal with these kinds of solutions via telematics. We therefore believe that this is important, and that is why we will vote in favour of this law. However, we would like to add an amendment to the law that we will introduce in the Senate to also solve a problem of a very small area of the Jerez Framework on the obligation of vineyards with a certain inclination to have a plant cover. In the framework of Jerez there is already a work of tillage that solves the problems of runoff and water catchment, because our vineyard is of dry farming. We are therefore going to register an amendment in the Senate for which I call for the support and involvement of both the ministry and the parties supporting this government. It is important for the Jerez Framework, which really has a tradition of farming and working the land very respectful of the environment, that it is evolving to ecological crops and that every day takes a step further to protect the environment, which they have been doing forever, since their tradition already collects work or solutions for the treatment of water. That is why I will also ask all parliamentary groups in the Senate to support our amendment. As I say, we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u104	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is also setting a position at this time, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of the law, which includes some of the BNG's proposals, but not the amendment guaranteeing the face-to-face relationship of persons responsible for farms with the Administration in cases where, for objective reasons, telematics is not possible. That is why we are keeping it alive, because we believe that situations of defencelessness or increased farm expenditure should not be generated as a result of professional processing. In any case, this law addresses very specific and partial aspects of the CAP. Unfortunately, we still have to change the criteria so that small farms, those that choose forms of extensive management, traditional and/or ecological cultivation or those that take advantage, for example, of shrub pastures, which are important in Galicia, and which are less valued, do not know very well why. In addition, they are practices with a great positive environmental impact and preservation of natural spaces in the face of pollution or forest fires, so they should be incorporated into self-schemes and properly valued. The agricultural sector is also continuing with enormous difficulties, as, beyond price escalation and associated costs, they see how the profitability of farms is still not guaranteed, because the principle set out in the food chain law of not selling below production costs remains unimplemented.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u107	Finished. Once again we call for a review of the established criteria because this situation is leading many farms to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u108	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Compromís we announce that we will vote in favour, because some of the issues raised by the agricultural unions have been taken up, including some of the issues raised by the Union, the Valencian union with which we are most attuned, and the Union of Unions. By the way, it would be good if they were given the representativeness that corresponds to them. Some of the issues that were fundamental to us have been accepted. In particular, the general ban on agricultural burns and plots with very low profitability for small farmers was a cost overrun, in many cases, very difficult to assume. It is therefore reasonable that this proposal has been accepted. Secondly, avoid double punishment. It is common sense that the same person cannot be punished by two administrations for the same offence, either by public, hydraulic or environmental regulations. I believe that this violates common sense and is contrary to the law. And then there is an issue that has been accepted in half, and that is that farmers who do not have electronic means, whether through a digital, geographical or generational gap, could be addressed. We understand that this is likely to improve - and we hope that in the Senate it will improve - to ensure that all farmers can communicate with the Administration by other means. There are some that have not been incorporated because the Government did not want to incorporate them as they meant increased spending, but we hope that no one will be tempted to take these improvements out of the text and therefore I insist that our vote will be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u110	Thank you so much. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u111	Thank you, President. Today the parliamentary procedure in the Congress of the draft law on the CAP is complete. Knowing the importance of having a good common agricultural policy, PeCAT has worked rigorously and at the hands of the various agricultural organisations, diversity of entities and with representatives of the different sectors affected by this standard. We tabled 24 amendments, seven of which were vetoed by the Government. We regret that it has not been allowed to proceed, since it included measures of great importance and scale as extraordinary measures resulting from the damage caused by the squandering of Cyril to the agricultural sector, which has left a great impact in Catalonia; coverage of the risk of hydrological drought in irrigation agriculture; the creation of a professional, agricultural, livestock and forestry diesel oil; and the creation of an extraordinary agricultural fund to respond to the current crisis. However, we have adopted four amendments, we have negotiated three more and today we will vote on the remaining ten amendments for which we call for the support of the groups. I would particularly like to highlight the incorporation in the Paper, during the sitting held on 5 October, of our Amendment No 85, which was incorporated into the text of the Paper by a majority of the parliamentary groups and without any vote against. This amendment is essential for the primary sector by lifting the ban on burning plant waste in the agricultural environment. Article 27(3) of Law 7/2022 of 8 April on contaminated waste and soil for a circular economy, in force since last April, is deleted. The ban on burning plant waste is a clear example of disconnection between rural needs and those who sometimes act from their backs to the needs of the sector. The obligation to dispose of these materials through certain processes provided for in the Waste Law obliges agricultural holdings to make costly investments which, in the current drought situation, the increase in inputs and the international situation, are not in a position to cope. It should not be forgotten that the precept directly affects more than 900,000 agricultural holdings, of the order of 12 million hectares of arable areas of herbaceous crops and almost 5 million hectares of permanent and woody crops. For this reason and because the burning of plant waste generated in the agricultural or forestry environment is a management practice of farms subject to strict rules sufficiently regulated by the autonomous Community legislation on environmental effects and by fire prevention regulations, it is appropriate to have deleted it from the law on contaminated waste and soil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u112	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time's up. Thank you so much. She warned the President at the beginning of the plenary session that she would be rigorous over time. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u113	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing the opinion of the draft law regulating the management system of the common agricultural policy, known as the CAP, and other related matters. For our group, the proposal for the management of the CAP offered by the Spanish State is unambitious and we understand that we have missed a clear opportunity to redistribute and focus aid to those who really need it. Important issues that we believe are not covered by this CAP. The figure of the genuine farmer. For us it is essential, and we have always been repeating it, to defend the figure of the genuine farmer as a recipient precisely of the aid from the CAP. Our group has always argued that the beneficiaries of the aid must be those farmers and farmers who actually engage in farming. In fact, our proposal, which is also the proposal of the Union of Unions, is that aid should be given to those who receive 25% of agricultural income and, on the other hand, who contribute to agricultural social security. This is the only way to focus aid for farming itself. That has not been done and we believe that, in that sense, that effort to redistribute has not been made. Another element with which we disagree is the architecture theme of strategic plans and the regional component. The proposal of the European Commission for the CAP incorporates the new figure which is laid down in the strategic plans drawn up by each Member State. However, the European Regulation provides for the establishment of elements of the strategic plan at regional level, provided that the elements of the national or state strategic plan are coherent and coherent. However, in our view, this proposal has not been received, and we believe it is important that regional proposals should be considered because there is a principle, the principle of subsidiarity, which allows actions, aid to reach the real needs of the territory directly, and this could only be done through the autonomous communities or through the regions. In that sense, we believe that this CAP is another failure. [[Applauds]] Finally, there is another large block, which would be the subject of green architecture, the environmental measures of the ERDF and the eco-schemes. Here we fully agree, although we believe that there must be flexibility in some measures in the face of the Ukraine crisis and the supply crisis, the food crisis. For example, the beard's measurements have become more flexible. I therefore believe that it is important that this factor be taken into account at least. Issues of concern to us that in the end seem to have been resolved or I would like to keep in mind that they have been resolved. One, much has been said here, which is the issue of banning the burning of plant remains. In the processing stage, the initial point prohibiting the burning of plant remains has finally been repealed, and I think it is to celebrate it. Why? Because it affected the agricultural sector, which in the end had to bear all the costs involved in the management of these residues or plant residues. It cannot be that the agricultural sector has to bear more costs, precisely in terms of management. It is very clear here that what the Government cannot claim is to impose measures without precisely the consensus of the sector - in this case the agricultural sector - and of the territories, nor can it implement measures without providing the necessary means. In this regard, it has been shown that decentralization models, often far from the reality of the sector and the territory, do not always work. And this is a clear example of how one has had to root out an element that could be a really important problem. Another important element is the use of electronic or telematic means. We agree on the need to simplify administrative procedures by electronic or telematic means. It's very clear, it's a way forward. However, we need to be realistic and recognize that there is a digital divide affecting part of the agricultural sector. For us it is important that the lack of access to the telematics media does not constitute a ground of discrimination, which is fundamental. That is why we asked in our amendments - which has finally been resolved through a transactional, and we welcome it - that it must be the authorities or administrations who must guarantee and provide the necessary means for this to become effective. In the end, this has recovered in the transaction. It does not have to be the people, the owners of properties who have to make the effort, but it has to be the administrations who have to seek them out. In that regard, I believe that progress has been made. In conclusion, we maintain a number of amendments alive, most of which are part of the title of the law 'other related matters'; for the most part they are amendments that respond to the energy war and the food crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. For us it is essential that, at the same time as a new CAP is being proposed with a new model, at the same time - as is being done, through measures, although we believe that they are clearly insufficient - support measures are being implemented for one sector. They are proposals that must basically reduce production costs, which should be the objective for the sector itself to have the capacity to react. In that regard, I will simply mention one of the amendments that we have tabled, which is important and that we will see what course you will then take in the Senate - that is why you simply called on the groups of the Government - on the subject of double sanctions. It is not normal for any owner or farmer to be given a double penalty of two different administrations, it is not normal. That issue is as simple as changing it and including it as an amendment. Therefore, I propose to the government parties that they consider it - not here, but in the Senate - as one of the important elements to take into account. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u114	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u115	Good morning, everyone. We are faced with a very important law. We regret that the only consensus on this CAP is that for the first time in Spain the CAP is born without consensus; that it is not the CAP that the autonomous communities want; that it is not the CAP that farmers and farmers need; that it does not compensate for income losses, that it is for what the CAP was born for; that it is much more complex, it has less money and disproportionate environmental demands that reduce production and cost money. The whole process of negotiating the CAP has been stifled by obscurantism and deception, so much so that the councillors have come out four times to deny the minister; so much so that they sent the strategic plan to Brussels twice through the back door; so much so that farmers have denounced them to the European Commission for lack of transparency in the process. Everybody lie? No, gentlemen of the government, it is you who lie. [[Applauds]] It's in their DNA; this is their way of negotiating, this is the credibility and reliability they offer when they negotiate. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the countryside has also been deceived in the CAP negotiations. That is why this is your CAP, but it is not the one that Spain needs, it is not the CAP that would have negotiated or consented to by the People's Party, with more European budget than ever and the same seventeen autonomous communities negotiating. The People's Party agreed at the worst time and with the lowest funds, and you, at a time of expansionary budgets as never before in the European Union, have lost EUR 5 billion. That's what happened. [[Applauds]] But the most serious thing, however, is not the loss of money; however, the most serious thing is that this law is devoted almost exclusively to the sanctioning system, to imposing sanctions, and it does not solve the problems of the countryside. While you are counting the huge aid you are distributing and the dialogue that the minister is - listen well -, every day in Spain closes one out of every three livestock farms; every day in Spain there are farmers who sacrifice their animals because they cannot pay for the feed: 83,000 animals sacrificed more this year. It's your data. Can you imagine what that is for a farmer? Put yourself in your place, if not for humanity at least out of humility; put yourself in your place and support the proposals of the People's Party. They know there's milk missing and they're closing cheeses? Do you know that they are closing chicken farms and meat industries because they have quadrupled their spending: energy, fertilizers, diesel? Do you know that inflation has meant that in just two years the first pillar of the CAP, farmers and farmers, have lost EUR 2 billion in purchasing power? And they say that aid is growing because it is in line with the CPI? Man, this is a joke! Farmers and farmers are not rich, gentlemen of the government, they feed us and you are forcing them to close. How could we have come to this, ladies and gentlemen, when there is more European money than ever before? The People's Party has brought you the solutions, thanks also to the work of my colleagues Juan Diego Requena and Jaime Olano. More than 30 amendments contain a shock plan supported by farmers and farmers to reduce production costs and increase revenues and sales. That's what it takes. [[Applauds]] I'll sum them up. We propose that the Government comply with the law of the chain, subsidies committed to fertilizers, to diesel, also to feed. If you are going to raise more than EUR 27 billion, put it on 58, which is what you have said that it costs these bonuses that are your commitment to the chain law, it does not seem to me too much, honestly. No, ladies and gentlemen, they have vetoed them; that is why they cannot vote here today. We propose tax measures, tax reductions, lower energy costs and food VAT so that consumption does not fall. We propose that environmental measures be adjusted to the productive reality of the country; it is not the time to reduce production or increase expenditure, but to increase profitability, income to produce more, sell and earn more. That is why we insist on the historic opportunity of European funds to modernise the countryside. They invest in new irrigation, rafts and dams, vote on our amendment or copy Portugal or France. They build them and you presume to have destroyed 197 rafts in the rivers and thereby the future of the entire rural environment that accompanies you. [[Applauds]] I would like to end by thanking the support of all political parties - I feel that of all but the PSOE and Podemos - for an important proposal from the People's Party so that when this law is finally passed it will be possible to call the electric company and hire two different powers throughout the year. I regret that you have voted against what constitutes insecurity and uncertainty for the citizens; that you yourselves vote against what you have regulated in a law as important as the food chain law justifies us being there; we knew you were going to deceive them. [[Applauds]] I'm done. We understand that this CAP is the one that has allowed Mr Planas to draw those who really move the threads of the ministry, several ministers of which unfortunately none is he, but it is the time of the farmers the farmers, the time to think of the citizens who do not want an abandoned rural world, the time of those who think politics is to solve problems. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u116	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up. Thank you so much. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u117	Egun on, good morning. We are in the process of gaining access to CAP funds. Some basic issues have been resolved, but we are not faced with the instrument that needs to respond to the crisis in the agro-farming sector. During the period of drafting, negotiation and approval of the CAP, a great number of circumstances have taken place that have affected and are worsening the crisis in the agricultural sector throughout Europe and, therefore, also in Euskal Herria and throughout the State: the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, a long period of drought, a large international speculative cycle around raw materials; in short, elements that have aggravated the already chaotic situation of the agricultural sector. This crisis is not only affecting the viability of agricultural holdings in the European Union, it is also jeopardising the food security of people in many parts of the world. Thus, in the implementation of this CAP and the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and other measures that we have to take in the State, we have to address all these circumstances. It is time to sit down and see that the sector really is in a serious crisis, even if we are at risk of losing precisely the continuity of a large part of the farms in the state. The CAP has been and is being an insufficient mechanism to respond to all these challenges; insufficient not only by the economic means available, but also by its strategic approaches. It is insufficient because the sector has to respond to all these challenges, but also to fundamental problems that are being suffered over the last decades and are caused by the current capitalist monopolistic model of food production and distribution. It is a food model that is increasingly moving away from production and consumption in local markets, a model that is moving away from environmental balance, a model determined especially by economies outside the sector and a model that is also socially unsustainable, because it is deserting the rural environment. All this is creating this unsustainable situation which is being endured only by the sacrifice, the treasure and the experience of the workers in the sector. The history of the CAP is a historic failure of all these agricultural policies of uniformisation throughout Europe, rather than strengthening the sector, has made it more dependent on these subsidies and does not offer the necessary guarantees for their development. A new agricultural policy is needed. Is a European agricultural policy necessary? Of course I do, but in another direction! A direction that sets objectives that respect the potential of the different historical production models and frameworks, that respects the decision-making frameworks and the competences of each area of autonomous self-government. Different regions, communities and regions should be allowed to act according to their needs and opportunities, and to design their own strategies. It is important to enhance the development of food sovereignty strategies involving the sector with the rest of the social sectors. We know it's hard to walk in this direction. This is a situation that has been generated by a dominant agro-industrial model, delocalized and dominated by the large corporations and multinationals of the food industry, which are causing this price crisis. We will not be able to change it suddenly, it will be difficult, but the change is possible and necessary. The change will not be easy and cannot be immediate, but you need to know where we are going, you need to know which model to walk towards and give new approaches. That is why, although this CAP does contain some elements, they are totally incipient. The crisis of the war in Ukraine is precisely giving us important clues as to where to move forward. We need to redirect consumption that is being unsustainable, inputs that we have to make possible within our environments and, above all, ensure decent prices. As with other raw materials and critical materials, some basic elements of fertilizers for agriculture are beginning to run out. Agro-ecological practices for closing nutrient cycles at the local and regional levels need to be strengthened, but this requires adequate means and support. This cannot be done by the farms on their own. As I say, this new CAP has some features that can be considered positive since Euskal Herría, but we need respect for the autonomous frameworks. Progress in this regard requires close, participatory management involving the whole sector. These policies need to be managed from autonomous frameworks. The modalities of the productive regions defined in the CAP can only be managed if they are carried out from autonomous administrative regions with the capacity to ensure the adequacy of these applications. This reform of the CAP has progressed in subsidiarity towards the Member States, but it is not doing so towards the autonomous communities. We would therefore like to conclude by insisting that, in view of this serious situation, the cross-cutting axes that define agricultural policies must be strengthened and adapted. These lines must be adapted and, fundamentally, small and medium-sized farms must be catered for. The future of the sector depends on them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u118	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u119	Thank you, President. As you all know, the common agricultural policy is key to the proper development of agriculture and livestock throughout the European Union. It is essential that everyone understands the role of the common agricultural policy for the primary sector, and that is why I will give them only two data so that they can illustrate us and we can put the framework right. The first is that the budget for the common agricultural policy is one third of the budget for the whole of the European Union - that is the enormous importance of the CAP - and the second is that this budget is allowing the 447 million Europeans to have quality food in their homes and that the hotel industry has good food, in particular so that the Spanish hotel industry ensures good food in the 260,000 establishments that exist in our country. Having said that, this new CAP for the period 2023-2027 is a much fairer and more social policy and has a greater environmental awareness and a better redistribution of aid to boost family and professional agriculture and is also making progress in a greater role for the Member States. This law amends aspects of plant and animal health laws in relation to the sustainable use of plant protection products and the prudent use of antimicrobials, which is an important advance in sustainability and in agricultural and livestock activities. In the same vein, the self-schemes and the Farm Strategy also work at the Bureau. All this is done, ladies and gentlemen, despite the denialist speeches of the extreme right, of VOX. The situation is very serious and it is very urgent to take account of this need to take care of the environment because, as reality and also science show, the effects of climate change are already here, are being noticed in Spain and are suffering from it by our farmers and farmers. I am going to tell you about my land, Andalusia, not only because it is my land, but also because it hurts me enormously to see the deterioration that is suffering from the consequences of climate change. According to the World Meteorological Organization, we are facing a 98% probability - almost total - that in the next five years we will record the warmest year, moving to 2016. This organization also warns that the temperature will rise 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels over the next three years. In addition, we are in a very severe drought and water shortage. To date, on 3 November, the basins of Guadalquivir and Guadiana are below 25%. In Andalusia - do not forget that it is the land that most produces from all Spain, that most contributes to the primary sector of all Spain and that most contributes to olive groves throughout the European Union - rice is at the edge of the abyss. Last year the losses were 50% of the billing and this season it was only possible to sow 30% of the usual rice. If we talk about the olive grove, we find ourselves in an absolutely dramatic situation. According to the data of the Andalusian Junta, the one that governs the People's Party - let us not forget it - is going to produce almost 60% less in olive groves than in the average of the last five campaigns. The cultivation of the olive grove that is suffering the most is the dry olive grove, but also the extensive and traditional, when it is these that give life to our peoples and those that generate more employment and wealth. This will also be the subject of the olive grove's eco-scheme thanks to this government. Knowing that 80% of the water consumed is for irrigation, do you know what the proposal of the People's Party of Moreno Bonilla in Andalusia is? More water for the irrigation of the super-intensive, the less social, those who generate less employment and those who skim our water most and degrade our land, and also more water for the irrigation of golf courses. That's what they say, with all the quail, and they stay so calm. [[The lady]] This is very serious because we expect it from VOX - they believe that climate change does not exist and gives them the same science because they do not believe in it, but in what they say and, therefore, can continue to claim that the earth is flat because it gives them the same science - but not from the People's Party, the People's Party is different because it is because of the dough, the amiguets, the balls, the rich, the businesses and their own pocket. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Moneo Diez utters words that are not perceived]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, don't be angry, it's true. That is why it is so important for the CAP to have an environmental orientation, and so much so that between 20 and 30% of the CAP revenue to be received by farmers and farmers will be earmarked for environmental purposes and practices. In addition, this CAP is more redistributive because it allocates more resources to the first hectares, so it supports more small farms and family farms. The truth is that United We could have been much more ambitious in negotiating with the European Union for a more real redistribution, so that it would not end up in the pockets of the usual landowners and go to the genuine farmer. Finally, this law has been enriched by a new paragraph that eliminates the prohibition of burning plant waste when there are no other alternatives, with a consensus amendment by all groups. Here I want to make a little letter. I have just heard Mrs Milagros Marcos from the People's Party talk about agreements and negotiations, and here I have to denounce that the People's Party with its dirty game drew a statement saying that it was they who had achieved it with the vote of United Podemos and the PSOE against. That was a gross lie just to get a few more votes. The proposal was for Citizens and PeCAT and if it came out unanimously it is because the PSOE and Unidad Podemos supported it. Not everything is worth with its dirty game based on lies, just as the dirty games for the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary are not worth. Faced with this torturing opposition, the government of Unity Podemos and the PSOE continues to work and process laws that improve our primary sector. Spanish farmers will have 48 billion more direct aid thanks to this new CAP. [[A Member of Parliament: Hey, it's okay.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u121	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this rule is a regulation which aims to consolidate the common agricultural policy, a common agricultural policy which we have already said in various committees which is demagogic, economically reduced and ruinous; a CAP which aims to achieve environmental and climate objectives through a new approach based on the European Green Pact, a fanatical and eco-radical pact signed by all of you, and a CAP which increases a very difficult bureaucracy already to be fulfilled by farmers and farmers, which they do not understand and which has absolutely terrified them. [[applause]] We see them constantly in the Spanish countryside and they tell us every day that it complicates their work. In addition, production costs continue to rise and the implementation of the farm's objectives at the table seriously harms the entire Spanish countryside. It is a good thing that this parliamentary procedure has eliminated the ban on the burning of plant remains generated in the agricultural environment. [[The Lord]] A victory in the face of the senseless urbanist radical echo that does not understand agricultural uses and puts nothing but obstacles to farmers for the benefit of these global green agendas made behind the back of the people by elites who have not stepped on the field in their lives. [[Applauds]] Food sovereignty has been a priority of our parliamentary group since we entered the Congress of Deputies. Food sovereignty is a term that both France and Italy, with their new Minister of Agriculture, Francesco Lollobrigida, have included within the Ministries of Agriculture, which are now called the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Sovereignty. Why did they do it? Because, like VOX, you've realized that you have to defend yours. [[Applauds]] The concept of food sovereignty that we defend in our parliamentary group is to strengthen the values of our food, to bet on our primary agri-food sector and to strengthen our production system in the face of economic crises or catastrophes. It is a concept that does not exclude trade or trade relations, but seeks in that trade our international complementarity and projection, without sacrificing our productive sectors or our national security. Our productive sectors are absolutely threatened by the indiscriminate entry of products from third countries that exercise unfair competition, because they do not comply with the rules to which we subject our producers in environmental matters, in terms of quality or in terms of labour legislation. We reject the European Union's crushing of our farmers with this green bureaucracy, while watering hundreds of millions of euros to third countries in both agriculture and irrigation. We have as last example of this case the concession to Morocco of 120 million euros for the modernization of agriculture, announced last week by our spokesman Jorge Buxade. Morocco is a country denounced by the Spanish countryside to the anti-fraud office of the Union for non-payment of customs duties, fraud in labelling and lack of traceability. How good it would be to our Spanish farmers that 120 million are going to Morocco! [[Applauds]] Since VOX we have not only warned the Government of the reality that comes with green demagogy in relation to our agricultural production sector, but have repeatedly submitted reports to it, drawn up by independent bodies such as the United States Department of Agriculture and the European Commission itself, which made it absolutely clear that the Green Pact is ruining us. Who supports green policies? All of you except VOX. The spokesman for the People's Group asked us earlier how we have come to this situation. For we have come to this situation because of the implementation of the policies, especially of the People's Group, the Socialist Group and the rest of the groups. [[Applauds]] There are many European countries that also openly question green suicide policies, and as an example we have the conclusions of the five Visegrad Group Agriculture Committees which oppose, among other things, the European Commission's legislative proposal on the use of chemical plant protection products as part of the Farm to Bureau Strategy, which will end up crushing our farmers and their production. The flat-rate reduction of 50% of plant protection chemicals, as proposed by the European Commission, destroys the competitiveness of our agriculture and favours the import of food products from third countries, is a real madness. The minister told us yesterday that we had to be responsible for meeting the sustainability and eco-schemes of this new CAP and that we have a commitment to the world. What about the commitment to Spain? [[Applauds]] I ask the minister to look into the eyes of farmers and farmers and tell them not to commit themselves to their land, not to commit themselves to the profitability of their farms, not to commit themselves to their families, and to commit themselves to the objectives of elites who have not chosen anyone at all and whose dark interests only benefit them. [[Applauds]] Those who are irresponsible are all of you, ruining a fundamental sector that puts food at the table of the Spaniards, that takes care of our fields and that is having a very bad time because of your political decisions. VOX rejects this consolidation of the CAP agreement through the strategic plan and calls for a substantial revision of the CAP because it is detrimental to the interests of the agricultural sector. Faced with a rachitic and ruined Europe to which the globalist bureaucrats of salon and heel, settled in Brussels and Strasbourg, VOX wants a strong and competitive European agrarian space that faces global geopolitical and food crises and builds more sovereign and free European nations in the face of threats... [[laughs]] [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u124	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up. For the Socialist Group, Mr Serrano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u125	Thank you, President. Today we are debating in this House the bill that will regulate the system of management of the common agricultural policy in our country, one of the pillars of agriculture, livestock and fisheries for our country. It is a bill to ensure that all farmers and livestock farmers are covered in time and form, in addition to having guaranteed the income they receive from the common agricultural policy. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we have been able to see how some have deliberately or maliciously wanted to make the common agricultural policy a flag that does not correspond as such, incorporating into the debate issues that do not come into play or that do not correspond to the needs that farmers and farmers currently have. This is what the right people are doing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of VOX, we expect everything, absolutely everything, but what you have done throughout the process of the common agricultural policy has no name, since you have put the common agricultural policy at risk for our country. [[Applauds]] I will detail some of the milestones that this government and this minister, despite the difficulties they have had in the negotiation, have achieved. The People's Party in 2018 by land, sea and air proclaimed that the Minister of Agriculture would not be able to have a draft of that strategic plan. Well, in November 2018 the Ministry of Agriculture had that first draft. Then you, gentlemen of the People's Party, went to Brussels to boycott a budget which, I see, belongs to us as a country, but belongs to all the farmers and farmers in our country, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, put that negotiation at risk. [[Applauds]] They did not get away with it because today all the farmers and farmers have the same budget that you agreed on in the previous CAP, with a difference and it is that we were in a negotiation in the context of the Brexit, in which fewer countries contribute and less funds are allocated, and this government was able to guarantee the figure of 47 724 million euros. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, said - and you have done so here today - that a strategic plan would come along that would not count on the consensus of the autonomous communities and the agricultural sector. Well, it was not only done once: in July and October 2021, this strategic plan was supported by the agreement and also by the consensus of the autonomous communities and, of course, of the agrarian organizations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you wanted to open a negotiation a few months ago, being aware that the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy had to be ready on 31 December. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is the first time that our country has submitted a strategic plan to the European Commission. Do not take heart from what you have not done or tell lies in order, in this case, to generate confusion, confrontation and deception among farmers. And they complain that they don't have all the information. On the ministry's platform and website it has been published since July and you can review the strategic plan transparently and clearly. That is what you have failed to achieve and come here not to defend anything and to pour lies to generate confusion. You want to avoid a debate that really interests farmers and farmers and is what model of the common agricultural policy the People's Party defends and what model of the common agricultural policy the Socialist Party defends. Mrs Marcos, you have had a lapsus, or I want to understand that it was a lapsus, when you said that every day it closes in our country, of every three small and medium-sized farms, an exploitation. Of course I do! With its common agricultural policy, which they have been implementing in our country since 2014. It is the failure of the common agricultural policy of the People's Party! [[Applauds.- Mrs. Moraleja Gómez makes negative signs]] It's yours. And I understand that you do not want to talk, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, about what model the People's Party stands for. Is that the common agricultural policy which took away those who paid less than EUR 300 from the common agricultural policy in order to give it to those who paid more than EUR 100,000? Is that the model you're defending? [[Rumors]] That is the model we have had since 2014, and I will give you an example that currently 80% of the funds in Andalusia are distributed by 20% of the recipients. Is that the model of the common agricultural policy that the People's Party defends? For, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have come to change this common agricultural policy and we are going to make a common agricultural policy that reaches small and medium-sized farmers. That's what the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and the ministry are going to do! Of course I do! [[Applauds]] A common agricultural policy that encourages women and young people who want to join the agricultural and livestock fabric; a common agricultural policy that protects small and medium-sized farmers indistinctly from their income, small and medium-sized farmers, and a common agricultural policy - take note, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - that goes to the heart of the professional farmers, of whom the land works, of whom mud boots are filled and of whom he works every day in their cuts. [[Applauds]] That is the common agricultural policy of the Socialist Party and the one that defends the ministry. And a common agricultural policy with which we will finally have a redistributive payment that protects and, at the same time, that fights against what the extreme right does not want to see, which is climate change, that green challenge. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is debates like today that we have to have because we have threats like that of VOX, which does not want to see what our field and livestock, which is called drought, are suffering. The Socialist Party is going to lend a hand to all its lordships. Get to work, lower your foot and ball to the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u126	Thank you very much, Your Honor. - No, no, no, PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIC LAW AMENDING ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO INCREASE THE CRIMINAL REQUIREMENTS FOR TREATMENT OF HUMANS DISPLACED BY AN ARMED CONFLICT OR A HUMANITARIAN CATASTROPHE [[PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO INCREASE THE CRIMINAL REQUIREMENTS PROVIDED FOR THE TREATMENT OF HUMANS DISPLACED BY THE BELIC CONFLICT MADE BY THE INVASION OF THE UCRANIAN TERRITORY BY THROUGH THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION]] [[File number 122/00214]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u127	Opinion of the Proposition for an Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to aggravate the penalties provided for offences of trafficking in human beings displaced by armed conflict or a humanitarian catastrophe, formerly known as the Proposition for an Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to aggravate the penalties provided for offences of trafficking in human beings displaced by war conflicts motivated by the invasion of Ukrainian territory by troops of the Russian Federation. I should like to inform you that, after this debate, the amendments to the six Commission opinions will be voted on. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u128	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, trafficking in human beings is one of the most unfortunate and unworthy realities we face as a society. We are talking about a flagrant violation of human rights which particularly affects the situation of many girls and many boys and, equally, many women. Unfortunately, it is women and girls who suffer the most from this new form of modern slavery in which most cases are for sexual purposes. Although it is difficult to measure-are very inaccurate data - a reality like this, it is estimated that more than 28 million women and girls are subjected to jobs, servitudes, slavery or forced marriages all over the world, an already unbearable situation that gets worse when a war breaks out on the planet. Since the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, the International Organization for Migration and the UN have attended more than a thousand victims of trafficking. Every time there are mass displaced people, every time this drama of war forces them to leave everything behind and flee from barbarism, there are thousands of women and girls in a situation that is more vulnerable to being trafficked. There are millions of displaced people all over Europe, tens of thousands of them in Spain, and the Mafias take advantage of the worst human drama to use sexual violence as a weapon of war. The vulnerability situation in which millions of families leave the war is the perfect breeding ground for traffickers to use this alien drama to capture mostly exploited women and girls. That is why the liberals have always agreed on the need to undertake this reform of the Criminal Code and to aggravate the penalties for trafficking offences. That is what we have been saying in this House, just as we have been commenting on the proposals made to us by the Socialist Party, and we are pleased that they have been incorporated into the text we are debating today. It was not acceptable that there was a limit to the war in Ukraine or that there was a temporary limitation of eighteen months. The need to extend this kind of aggravation of penalties to any war conflict is what we and other parliamentary groups defend, for otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we were creating a clear inequality between some victims and others, and neither in this nor in any case can we speak of victims of first and second, which was a little what was being generated by the initial proposal. Girls and women who have been trafficked for fleeing the war in Syria or Afghanistan deserve the same protection as those who do because of the horror of the war in Ukraine. We regret, however, that the Government had had to wait for such a drama to erupt in order to address a reform of the Criminal Code that was absolutely necessary. We maintain a number of amendments and regret that the Government has not taken them to undertake the reform of the Aliens Act. We are presenting an amendment, which we are also keeping alive today, because, in our view, one of the main difficulties faced by victims of trafficking is access to the country of destination. In order to cross borders that would in many cases allow them to flee from war, despair leads many women to resort to mafias who, under false promises, end up condemning them to a future of sexual exploitation and slavery. That is why we believe that it is a fundamental step to amend the Aliens Act. On this I would like to make a reference: Citizens have put forward proposals for amending the Aliens Act, its reform, and I do not know why the Government does not support it when it knows it is necessary. This reform that we are proposing will probably be taken up by you to put the medal in another proposal, but it must be made clear that it is Citizens who are saying that it is important that the sanctioning dossiers be stopped for an irregular situation of those victims of trafficking confirmed. It is citizens who ask for residence and work permits to prevent victims from having to resort to such work as a form of subsistence. You're going to tell me: yes, we're going to assume it in the next trafficking law. When's the next trafficking law? We have been asking for a trafficking law for two years and we are currently being told that it will come in a short time. I was telling the Minister of Equality yesterday: can you give me a calendar? Because I think it's a priority. One priority is the law on trafficking and one priority is to take into account the situation of vulnerability of women who are in an irregular situation, who are being opened to administrative sanctioning files when they are reporting situations of trafficking. Let us be advanced in defending the conditions of vulnerability and assume the proposals that we are making to them from our parliamentary group. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is what I hope, to address the problem of trafficking, which deserves much more than a reform of the Penal Code, and you know it, to address sexual exploitation, which is what we all have to agree on in a joint way, and stop moralizing about what is women's sexual freedom. I believe that instead of regulating the law of trafficking, what they brought us here at the time - and, moreover, very quickly - is a reform to address the issue of sexual exploitation, but of all women, without differentiating when one issue is prostitution and when one issue is free and consented sexual work by women. They did bring him to this House, but again leaving those women in the field of prostitution who are exercising it in a free and voluntary manner in a vulnerable situation. I was also wondering about this, because, in the end, the conditions of vulnerability of these women make them much closer to situations of trafficking and sexual exploitation. Therefore, I encourage you: bring in a law of trafficking, assume these amendments of the law of alienation that is saying Citizens and be brave to make the reforms that will improve the living conditions of many women and girls who are at risk of violating their human rights. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u129	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is also setting a position at this time, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor. [[Pause]] He's not here. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u130	Thank you very much, President. I'll step in from here, from the seat. The fact is that this bill amending the Criminal Code gives us complicity in the initial approach and also some doubts in the final drafting. In the first sense, it has to be emphasized that of course we condemn all the immersion that the Russian Federation has made of Ukraine, I think this generates a situation of inequality, a situation of vulnerability that surely affects many more wars, not only this war of Ukraine. Therefore, some of the nuances raised in the bill, such as the temporary space on which this amendment had to last, are also put at risk to the extent that it is clear that the war we are suffering is not going to end in the short term, apparently. Therefore, our position on this issue is to allow the legislative amendment of the Criminal Code to move forward in order to be able to cover a totally unjust situation and a situation of genuine vulnerability that needs to be pursued, but, in any case, as I said, with some reasonable doubts as to whether the legislative technique applied to focus only on a political conflict or only on a temporary space has been the most suitable for the development of this legislative change of the Criminal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u131	Thank you. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u132	Thank you, President. On 10 May you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, presented the proposal for a law to reform the Criminal Code, which today will complete its legislative procedure in this House. At that time, Congresswoman Mariona Illamola, whom I replaced today, already demonstrated - as most political parties did - the discrimination that his proposal entailed, because it only aggravated the penalty for traffickers if the victims came from the war conflict motivated by the invasion of the Ukrainian territory by Russia, and this only for a period of eighteen months. We're not there anymore. The text has improved, but from our point of view it still presents a problem. As a result of the accepted amendments, both the title and the explanatory statement stipulate that the penalties for crimes of trafficking in human beings displaced by armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophe should be increased. This text emphasizes the category of the person, displaced by armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophe, displaced person who may be trafficked at any time. Their vulnerability is present at all times because of conflict or catastrophe. They are vulnerable because they are displaced. However, the wording which now comes to us from Article 167a(4) provides that the victim is a person whose vulnerability has been caused or aggravated by displacement resulting from an armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophe. The different wording emphasizes displacement rather than the category of the displaced person, which goes into the background. The penalty is not aggravated because it is vulnerable to displacement, but because it is captured during displacement. Therefore, if it is not captured during displacement, the penalty will not be increased. I repeat, if the person is captured before or after displacement, the aggravating would not apply, according to the literality. Examples: first, a person flees from a country where there is an armed conflict - Ukraine - and arrives in Spain hosted by a family or via temporary protection. It arrives without any problem, but once in Spanish territory, due to its precariousness, it is captured by a network of trafficking. According to the text adopted, the aggravating factor would not apply, since its vulnerability would have occurred in Spain. Secondly, a person flees from a country where there is an armed conflict-Ukraine - and on his journey to Spain is captured by a trafficking network. According to the text adopted, the aggravating factor would apply to it since its vulnerability has been aggravated by displacement. Ms Illamola, defending the position of several academics on this issue, has argued that there is a disparity between the title and the explanatory statement with the article resulting from the parliamentary procedure, the literality of the article being more limited in scope, which may lead to confusion in its interpretation in the court. In order for all cases of vulnerability to be collected, Junts submitted a compromise proposal in the Paper and in the Commission which was not accepted. However, we believe that our amendment, which we have kept alive, better reflects the spirit of the reform that is being proposed: aggravating penalties for people who traffic in human beings displaced by armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophe, people whose vulnerability can be given at any time - we have just seen it - by armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophe. If our proposal, our amendment, is not accepted, we will also vote in favour of the text, as we believe it is an improvement on existing legislation. However, we believe that this is, unfortunately, a partial improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u133	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u134	Thank you, President. I'll try to be brief. At the outset, we find an initiative that was discriminatory - as we said at the time - since it only increases the penalties for the crime of trafficking of women victims of the conflict in Ukraine. As has already been said by the fellow citizen, thanks to the pressure of all parliamentary groups, this criminal increase has been achieved by extending it to the crimes of trafficking resulting from any armed conflict, not just that derived from Ukraine. In addition, we have also managed to eliminate the eighteen-month time limit, which made no sense at all. Come on, that among all the parliamentary groups we managed to change the initiative that came from the origin, a fact that emphasizes that it was a little thought-provoked initiative, little worked by the Socialist Party and that we were also surprised that it did not come from the United We can, since they are the holders of the Ministry of Equality, a fact that also highlights the differences between the partners of government. Even so, although it is an ad hoc reform, it is such an important issue that we will, of course, vote in favour of the opinion. Even so, as we have said before, many things are missing, such as measures to prevent and redress victims or, for example, also, as has already been said, the reform of the Aliens Act, because we all know that trafficking in persons is often caused by difficulties in accessing the country of destination. In short, we all have an obligation to devote all efforts, resources to the fight against trafficking and the exploitation of all women regardless of their country of origin or the conflict of which they are victims, and to these issues the partisans are not worth it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u135	Thank you. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u136	With the venom. With this proposed law, a case is added to article 177 bis of the Criminal Code to make penalties worse for cases where the victim is a vulnerable person due to armed conflict or a humanitarian catastrophe. Firstly, we welcome the change in the scope of law enforcement. It would be absurd to circumscribe this worsening of the penalty only to the victims of the war in Ukraine, as was originally thought, although, as an initiative of the PSOE, it would not have been rare to see them make a proposal in which justice and equality will shine through their absence and there would be first and second victims, as we are already accustomed to gender laws. [[Applauds]] Massive population displacements are often carried out in armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophes. The instability caused by war makes it possible for human traffickers to take advantage of the vulnerability of those who suffer from it. In particular, trafficking in persons is rightly referred to as the slavery of the twenty-first century, because this crime violates a number of fundamental rights, such as physical integrity, psychological integrity, freedom and dignity. Victims of trafficking are held in slavery by force, coercion or intimidation, and are lied to about work, living conditions, travel and their legal future. They are displaced by traffickers from one place to another so that they are isolated and coerced and blackmailed so that they do not report. They live hell in life of threats and fear. Their lives are marked by the abuse, the violation of their human rights and the control of their traffickers. For all this, we consider it essential to tighten the penalties for those guilty of trafficking, just as it is essential that we put all the means at our disposal to detect these situations. For this it is necessary to make visible - that word that you like so much - the reality of trafficking, to make visible all victims, because they are all equally important. On the one hand, we have the victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, the only or most commonly spoken of. Why? Because most of the victims are women, because they are the victims that best suit their causes. Therefore, they keep bragging about the Road Plan, their new plan to, in theory, give economic, labour and social alternatives to trafficked women for the purpose of sexual exploitation. A Road Plan, by the way, with 204 million euros. But what is behind this plan and this sudden interest in human trafficking? I believe that it is necessary for the Spaniards to know that the Road Plan aims to give privileged treatment to the women alleged victims of trafficking without complaint and therefore without sentences. They want to reward victims of trafficking without sentences with massive regularizations and give them an administrative accreditation document proving their status as victims of trafficking without a sentence. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, this music sounds to me, it has a melody very similar to the comprehensive law against gender-based violence, feminism, always simulating concern for women, although they really do not care about anything or anyone, as we have seen these days in a bloody way; they may want to make another collage of false complaints and self-reported victims. And it is not a question of not having to deal with these victims, of course, because in addition to their lack of freedom, we have to deal with the very harsh circumstances in which they live: sexually transmitted diseases, sexual abuse, rape, forced abortion, post-abortion syndrome, but always from rigour and legal certainty. But there are other victims of trafficking, victims of labour exploitation, who must also be made visible. It is many men who suffer it, also women and children, especially in the fields of agriculture, construction, clandestine workshops, hospitality, and who, as victims of trafficking, as well as lack of freedom, suffer major health problems, injuries and chronic pain due to the harsh conditions under which they are forced to work. By the way, this type of trafficking is closely linked to illegal immigration, which you promote by allowing the violation of our borders in a systematic manner. [[Applauds]] Maybe that's why we heard less about this kind of trafficking. And let us not forget the children, the most vulnerable victims, who, because of the trafficking they are victims of sexual and labour exploitation, suffer from depression, anxiety, sexual disorders, injuries, malnutrition, problems that a child should never live or know. You, gentlemen of the PSOE, seemingly very concerned about all these people, bring here this proposal of law which, as I have said, we support, but I have to tell you, it is very surprising that you, with this proposal, want to fight against trafficking, against the sexual exploitation of women, you, who have spent so much money on prostitutes from the Andalusian unemployed. [[Applauds]] How many of those prostitutes wouldn't be trafficked! You today call for tougher penalties to protect trafficked women, but refuse to harden penalties to protect women from recidivist murderers and rapists. [[Applauds]] Today you tear clothes with human trafficking while practicing an open border policy and giving free access to the mafias and organizations that trade with people. Pure incoherence, ladies and gentlemen, and this time they go like headless chicken but with pure carambola they have made it right. We reiterate our support for this initiative, because our position is very consistent and very simple: VOX is always in favour of toughening penalties for criminals and is always on the side of vulnerable people. [[Applauds]] There you will always have us to help the victims and give them everything they need to alleviate their suffering and make their lives happier and fuller. We believe that trafficking in all its forms, slavery and prostitution, offend human dignity. Trafficking in persons corrupts our civilization and dishonours those who practice it, not those who suffer their injustice. Therefore, we hope that this toughening of the penalties for trafficking will apply to everyone equally, without distinction of sex, without sectarianism, or ideological burdens in any direction. All the victims deserve us to be legislators with capitals, and that means that we legislate in the search for good according to the law... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Tosacano, your time is up. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u138	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The position of the People's Parliamentary Group is in favour of this proposal to reform the Criminal Code in order to aggravate the penalties for crimes of trafficking in displaced persons in war conflict or humanitarian catastrophe, an initiative which was originally, indeed, only in the case of the Russian invasion of Ukrainian territory and for a limited period of eighteen months, an issue which has also disappeared, logically. There is no doubt that Putin's terrible war in Ukraine is an unwise one. The United Nations High Commissioner already speaks of more than 7.5 million Ukrainian refugees forced to leave his country, who seek protection in other European States, mostly women and minors. It is terrible to see a war in the 21st century at the gates of Europe, but, yes, it has raised a great deal of unprecedented solidarity, transferring all kinds of food, medicine and blanket aid to the Polish border, which aims to help the majority, as I said, of women and children who leave their country in search of the most precious, which is their safety and save their lives; the greatest mobilization since the Second World War. And we have seen this solidarity in our cities and in our villages, where Spanish families have even opened the doors of their homes to welcome the Ukrainians and give them protection and cover the most basic needs. But unfortunately there is another dark, cruel and inhuman face, that of human traffickers. The instability and agitation created by the wars are fertile ground for these predators. Associations and NGOs, such as Save the Children, Unicef or the Madrina Foundation, have been denouncing the tragic situations that exist at the borders, how criminal networks and gangs deceive refugees and alert minors alone and that these mafias take the opportunity to traffic with them. Terrible, ladies and gentlemen! In the People's Parliamentary Group we have shown our firm commitment and the rejection and condemnation of this war since its inception, our support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people, and we have also done so through various initiatives that we have brought here to the House, calling for the development of measures to protect children fleeing Ukraine, as well as measures to prevent the trafficking or prostitution of women and minors by the mafias. But the reality is that we are also horrifyingly witnessing other war conflicts in the world, and we therefore agree that this amendment to the Criminal Code should be extended to all and protect the most vulnerable victims of trafficking in these barbarisms, punishing those who exploit this dramatic and terrible situation in a repugnant way. The People's Parliamentary Group has been insisting that what is needed is a comprehensive anti-trafficking law. [[Applauds]] There is a need for a policy response in this regard that articulates measures for the prevention of crime, for the protection of the victim and for the prosecution and punishment of offenders. We have to go further, ladies and gentlemen. This fundamental legal tool is needed against this devastating phenomenon and against this form of contemporary slavery. We must place the victims at the centre of all measures taken to protect them and defend their rights, because we are talking about human rights. In the last four years, there has been a 54% increase in alerts in our country for possible cases of trafficking, 6 out of 10 victims of trafficking being sexually exploited. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, why do we not yet have a comprehensive anti-trafficking law? Say it. I remind you that this is a commitment included in the State Pact against Gender Violence since its adoption in 2017. After four years in the government, have you not yet given them time to bring him to this House? A law I don't know how many times it's announced. It was recently done by the Minister of Justice, who said it was a compromise by the President. And also yesterday in this same House was done by the Minister of Equality, who said yes, that they would bring her. I repeat, I do not know how many times they have announced it, but they delay it unjustifiably and, in the meantime, they pose patches, like this, because this reform of the Criminal Code is still a patch, which would be unnecessary if we had this comprehensive anti-trafficking law. [[Applauds]] We have a Ministry of Equality anchored in radicalism, sectarianism, confrontation and politicizing and ideologicalizing absolutely everything, rather than solving the problems of citizens. We have a Ministry of Equality, with Mrs Montero, who in almost four years has not yet realized that gender-based violence and victims of trafficking do not understand political colours, political parties or political signs, that what is needed are real laws that protect them and act forcefully. They have been ruling for four years and have not been able to fulfil the mandate of the State Pact against Gender Violence, and this is the most tangible example, the failure to bring this comprehensive law against trafficking. That is why we are asking you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, especially the Socialist Party, for a high policy. Let yourself be left with laws that bring only for confrontation, such as the trans law, with which they have been able to raise the whole country against this law and do not want to listen, and put on the important issue, which is to help women, society and, in this case, victims of trafficking. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] In this respect, we have tabled an amendment which we hope will be supported. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] He doesn't intervene. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u140	Thank you very much, President. I rise to the rostrum to reiterate the support of our parliamentary group for the opinion of the Committee on Justice on the reform of the Criminal Code in order to aggravate the penalties for crimes of trafficking in human beings in connection with the displacement of war and other humanitarian crises. The initial text of the bill has welcomed those amendments in which all parliamentary groups coincided, as it was not limited to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia and extending it to all war conflicts and humanitarian crises, and also not to grant the reform a limited period of time. As has already been said, there have been some other amendments pending for discussion within the broader framework, as has also been pointed out, of a future and pending general law on trafficking, such as not limiting the aggravation to capture only during displacement, but extending it at any time, provided that the situation of the person caught by trafficking networks can be connected to the flight of a war conflict or a humanitarian catastrophe; although, adversely, this reform sought to place the singular emphasis on the confusion that generates massive and disorderly exoduses, which is the context for trafficking networks, mafias, to spread their tentacles with deception to capture women, children and minors for exploitation or sale, and within the exploitation of their sexual abuse or exploitation. It is an alternative to the latter to which our parliamentary group has joined, in pursuit of the search for broad majority voting, which, in matters such as this, we consider, demand positions as close as possible to unanimity if this is not possible. That is why, and appreciating positively the amendments that have remained pending, so as not to blur, as I said, the reform that we are now adopting in this House, we will abstain from its consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u142	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group has tabled amendments with criteria based on the considerations made by the Ministry of Equality, and there are other parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments in the same direction, and the original text presented by the Socialist Group in this House has therefore been amended. In the end, this amendment to the Criminal Code is not confined to the war conflict in Ukraine, nor is it a temporary, but a definitive measure. With this amendment of the Criminal Code, which we are going to adopt today, the penalties are appropriately increased and a new aggravated modality is introduced in article 177 bis, paragraph 4, of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, if the victim of trafficking is a person whose vulnerability has been caused or, where appropriate, aggravated by displacement resulting from an armed conflict or a humanitarian catastrophe. I would like to recall that, in accordance with the international commitments made by our country, our State has and must respond to trafficking in persons with due diligence, as stated by the United Nations rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children, in four key areas with an institutional response. The first, prevention. The second is the obligation to identify, assist and support victims. The third, criminalization, investigation, prosecution and punishment, hence the increase in the penalties for the greater vulnerability of the victims. And fourth - of course - cooperation between interstate institutions. In the same vein, the report of 21 February 2021 of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality of the European Parliament on the implementation of Directive 2011/36 of the European Union on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims is also delivered. The document urged States to establish severe criminal sanctions for trafficking offences. In addition, reference is also made to measures to improve the identification and care of victims, including some related to migration and asylum. The report also affirms the need to redouble efforts to combat impunity, bringing to justice those who exploit and abuse victims. That fight against impunity, precisely that fight, is one of the fundamental objectives of both the Ministry of Equality and, in this case, the Ministry of Justice. This report of the Special Rapporteur points out that the obligation of the State is fundamental to identifying many other aspects of the State's own obligations. And it specifically cites the investigation, prosecution of traffickers and protection of trafficked persons. All this will have to be discussed more broadly - because that is not what we are dealing with today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - in the next law on trafficking. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u143	Mrs. Velarde, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u144	Yeah, it's just that this is impossible. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u145	Wait a minute. [[Pause]] Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u146	Thank you. I say that this article, 177, cannot be an isolated measure without having a regulatory effect on other elements that currently operate as a bottleneck and, therefore, is not sufficient. In that we agree, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, but please do not talk about delaying laws, of not presenting them, when they have been presenting themselves by the Ministry of Equality and Justice a lot of laws and it is you who have been delaying them. You guys always delay everything. They are going to Europe to try to delay the arrival of European funds in our country, delay the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. We have been complying one by one with absolutely all the laws and government agreements to which we are committed. So please don't come here and give lessons when you despair; you despair. First, renovate the General Council of the Judiciary instead of saying here that the laws are delayed. [[Applauds]] At least have that deference. We also believe that the State's mandate needs to respond specifically to potential risk situations arising from armed conflict and the humanitarian crisis. As I have already said, this cannot give rise to a criminal rule that is exclusively provided for, as it was at first, to aggravate the penalty, recognizing the vulnerability of victims arising exclusively from the invasion of Ukraine to the detriment of other victims from very similar contexts, such as the southern border. Women and girls from situations of armed conflict or humanitarian crisis, in addition to people from Ukraine, are now arriving in our country, so it was very important to extend it to all possible situations, and that is what we have done with these amendments. People who flee always do so for the same reason: they flee violence, they always do so for wars and they flee the mafias of human trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation looking for a better future for their children. In the same way, no matter what language they speak, the country of origin. One cannot give priority to one country over another, because that would raise a wall of racism against people whose human rights are in grave danger. I'm on my way. It is urgent that we have a response as a State to trafficking in human beings. It is urgent that we know also that behind the drama there are women and girls victims of mafia trafficking almost always borders of sexual exploitation... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. Your time is up. Thank you so much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guijarro Ceballos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u148	Thank you, President. As soon as I arrived, the volunteers helped me with my luggage. They offered me food and a man offered to take me from the station to where I would stay. I was very tired, so I didn't think to ask you to show me an I.D. I activated my cell phone and shared my location with a friend. And the man took her where she had to go. Fortunately, this case ended as it had to end, inflating a little hope to a human being fleeing the war, to a vulnerable woman for a limited circumstance from which a trafficking network could have profited from those who take advantage of any crack in the protection system to gain their own benefit. Many of the women fleeing conflict around the world, in Nigeria, in Somalia, in the Sahel, in Afghanistan, in Iran, in Burma, in Yemen, in Colombia, all of them are stunned by the shock of having lost their previous life, by having passed fear they and their families; they are traumatized by what they have seen or heard, by the brutal and immediate rupture of their previous life and by the loss of little or much they had and, above all, by the uncertainty of what awaits them. And they arrive at a border attested to by human beings as traumatized as they do, but where they are expected or an international humanitarian system that protects them, or a trafficking network that promises them work, takes away their passports, kidnaps them and sells them as sex goods; that takes advantage of this confusion of that massive exodus to add tragedy to a previous tragedy. And where they had to find protection, security, some information and some advice, they find the added horror of becoming merchandise, because that's what pimps and traffickers consider them: merchandise. And they will be trafficked, and they will be prostituted, and sexual violence will once again be a weapon of war, and prostitution will be a destiny. And a country like ours must not tolerate it; it must not tolerate it. [[Applauds]] In the case of trafficking, it is also a great source of funding, a great source of income for armed groups, because drugs and weapons are sold once, but the bodies of trafficked women are sold over and over again. [[The lady]] They are changing goods, in brothels, outdoors or in enclosed enclosures. It is the same logic as in any international market: sellers and buyers. And Spain is one of the countries with the highest rate of paid sex in Europe: 45 000 women and girls in prostitution, of whom 95 % are estimated to be victims of trafficking. Pure neoliberalism and pure machism. [[Applauds]] Some do business with them - and a lot of business - and others consume them; supply and demand. A neoliberalism that wants us to believe in the myth of that free and empowered woman, who decides to offer her body to men who consume it before payment? And then, what about all those women captured at the border, in a war? Are they really happy? Are you really free? Are they really subjects of law? That is why our parliamentary group has tabled this criminal amendment to aggravate the penalties for crimes of trafficking in human beings displaced by armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophes, with a penalty of up to twelve years. It will have a deterrent effect, we are convinced, and it will also serve to more agilely prosecute this crime, and it complements issues that the Government is already putting in place for trafficking cases. Because we are going to insist on this idea: there is no freedom of any kind in sexual exploitation; there is no freedom, never. And to understand that prostitution is an accepted violent institution is the first step in addressing this issue legislatively. [[Applauds]] Of course we need a broad look to address prostitution as a problem of violence against women! But the current wording of the Criminal Code on pimping has barely allowed sentences to be handed down for these types of crimes and you know perfectly well that we in the Socialist Party are working for a solid wording that defines pimping so that it can be prosecuted, and that is where we are waiting for you. I must also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that some of the amendments that have been tabled by other groups go beyond the object of this law, but we believe that they will fit into that future law which, in fact, will immediately come into this House, the comprehensive anti-trafficking law. It is the first government to bring an anti-trafficking law to this Parliament. I wanted to thank the groups for their attitude and work in this paper. Thanks to the two rapporteurs, Andrea Fernández and Lidia Guinart, for having been there working, because we agree that this bill is one more step towards making women in our country more free. It is not the only one, but it is one more step to ensure that their rights of life, dignity and freedom are met from the borders from which they escape from other horrors in so many places in the world where the media focus is no longer there. Let us not forget them, let us put them at the centre of legislative action, because humanity is the only hope in the horror of war. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guijarro. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives. Draft law to promote the ecosystem of emerging companies. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 9 against, 331.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u151	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 101 against, 238 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u152	It is therefore rejected. As you will have noticed, the voting time has dropped from fifteen to ten seconds. [[Rumors]] We continue with Amendments 43, 66, 78 and 270. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 152 against, 183 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u153	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 59, 70, 76, 77 and 79. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 61 against, 184 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u154	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 62 and 68. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 60 against, 264 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u155	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 84 and 86. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 10 against, 172 abstentions, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u156	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 85 and 87. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 9 against, 276 abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u157	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 10 against, 189 abstentions, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u158	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 61 against, 278 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u159	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 31 against, 217 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u160	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 94. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 62 against, 165 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u161	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 14 against, 309 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u162	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 130. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 14 against, 305 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u163	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 136, 143 and 144. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 61 against, 248 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u164	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 147 and 175. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 75 against, 161 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u165	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 157 and 185. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 22 against, 299 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u166	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 163. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 146 against 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u167	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 180-182 and 186. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 60 against, 161 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u168	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 67 against, 254 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u169	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. Amendment 101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 63 against, 252, abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u170	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 19 against, 255 abstentions, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u171	It is therefore rejected. Let us stop voting for a moment to check Mr Abascal's seat. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the next vote. Amendments 103 and 125. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340; 159; 165; 16 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u172	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 113, 115 and 119. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 56 against, 164 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u173	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 117 and 121. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 16 against, 256 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u174	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 126. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 21 against, 209 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u175	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 67 against, 265 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u176	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 13 and 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 29 against, 253 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u177	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 31 against, 309.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u178	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 242, 245, 247, 253-256 and 258. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 51 against, 280 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u179	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 246, 252, 257 and 265. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 143 against, 188 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u180	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 52 against, 197 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u181	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 220. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 305 against, 25 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u182	It was therefore adopted. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 143 against, 195 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u183	They are therefore rejected. Transactional amendment. Transactional amendment to Amendment 37 of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 310 against, 7 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u184	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u185	We move on to the following Commission opinion on legislative initiative. Sports Bill. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. Amendments 159, 167, 186 and 242. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 30 against, 257 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u186	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 160 and 169. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 32 against, 258 abstentions, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u187	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 163 and 184. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 13 against, 248 abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u188	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 166. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 20 against, 302 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u189	It is therefore rejected. The remainder of the amendments tabled by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 30 against, 308 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u190	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 29 against, 305 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u191	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 375. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 104 against, 172 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u192	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 376. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 154 against, 184 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u193	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 377 and 383. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 163 against, 172 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u194	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 378. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 112 against, 172 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u195	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 379. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 116 against 223 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u196	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 381. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 155 against, 171 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u197	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 385 and 415. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 14 against, 182 abstentions, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u198	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 391. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 10 against, 171 abstentions, 158.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u199	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 394 and 409. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 62 against, 276 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u200	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 395. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 101 against, 182 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u201	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 399. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 22 against, 177 abstentions, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u202	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 401. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 21 against, 314 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u203	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 397, 410 and 412. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 61 against, 261 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u204	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 411. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 13 against, 276 abstentions, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u205	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 414. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 76 against, 263 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u206	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 10 against, 262 abstentions, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u207	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 31 against, 306 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u208	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendments 8, 11, 13, 16, 17, 24, 30 and 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 19 against, 259 abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u209	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 12 and 39. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 11 against, 322 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u210	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 12 against, 306 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u211	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 18 and 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 62 against, 260 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u212	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 46 against, 266 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u213	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 21, 23, 25, 26, 29, 36, 38 and 40 to 42. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 3 against, 306 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u214	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 14 against, 309 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u215	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendments 193 and 194. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 14 against, 250; abstentions, 74.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u216	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 195 and 200. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 32 against, 297 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u217	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 16 against, 302 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u218	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Miquel i Valentí. Amendments 215, 230 and 240. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 33 against, 254 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u219	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 216 and 217. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 168 against, 163 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u220	Accordingly, they were adopted. Amendment 232. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 64 against, 247 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u221	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 238. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 13 against, 307 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u222	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Miquel i Valentí. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 25 against, 308 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u223	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez. Amendment 47. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 32 against, 205 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u224	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 63, 82, 126 and 135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 121 against, 212 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u225	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 68. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 82 against, 255 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u226	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 85. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 65 against, 246 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u227	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 99 and 122. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 25 against, 255 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u228	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 115, 133 and 134. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 119 against, 163 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u229	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 21 against, 304 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u230	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 517, 590, 593, 596, 604, 606 and 609. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 72 against, 254 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u231	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 597-599, 610, 615, 620, 634, 635, 640, 641, 644, 645, 647, 649, 651, 652 and 664. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 23 against, 244 abstentions, 73.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u232	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 29 against, 304 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u233	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Amendment 247. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 60 against, 272 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u234	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 45 against, 275 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u235	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 671, 672, 676, 683, 687, 694, 700, 704, 706, 709, 713, 715, 720, 722, 723, 727 to 729, 731 and 732. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 55 against, 188 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u236	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 682, 686, 693, 695, 697, 710, 714, 718, 730, 743 and 745. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 151 against, 188.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u237	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 52 against, 279 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u238	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 274, 284, 318 and 319. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 151 against, 175 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u239	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 275 and 329. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 155 against, 164 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u240	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 278 and 328. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 101 against, 181 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u241	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 279. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 113 against 168; abstentions 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u242	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 280 and 302. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 101 against 239.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u243	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 324 and 325. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 113 against, 169 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u244	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 326. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 114 against 225 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u245	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 331. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 152 against, 182 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u246	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 332. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 163 against, 171 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u247	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 101 against, 176 abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u248	They are therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Amendment 463. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 50; 213; abstentions, 76.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u249	It is therefore rejected. Transactional amendment. Transactional amendment 1 to Amendment 601 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340; 184; 61; 95 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u250	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u251	We move on to the following committee opinion on legislative initiative. Draft law on institutionalization of the evaluation of public policies in the General Administration of the State. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 10 against, 328 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u252	They are therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 33 against, 305 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u253	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 52 against, 288.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u254	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 92 against, 248.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u255	They are therefore rejected. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING THE NATIONAL ORDER TO THE REGULATION 2018/1727 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 14 NOVEMBER 2018 ON EUROJUST, AND THE LEGAL CONFLICT, THE INTERNATIONAL LEGAL COOPERATION NETWORKS AND THE PERSONAL DEPENDENT OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE ON THE OUTSIDE. [[EU]] [[File number 121/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u256	We move on to the following committee opinion on legislative initiatives. Draft law adapting the national legislation to Regulation 2018/1727 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on Eurojust and regulating conflicts of jurisdiction, international legal cooperation networks and personnel under the Ministry of Justice abroad. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary GroupCitizens. Amendments 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 12 against, 236 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u257	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 62 against, 185 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u258	It is therefore rejected. Technical corrections. Technical correction number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 248 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u259	It was therefore adopted. Technical correction number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 251; 89 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u260	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u261	We turn to the draft law regulating the management system of the common agricultural policy and other related matters. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. Amendment 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 176 against 6 abstentions 158.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u262	It was therefore adopted. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Oramas GonzálezMoro. Amendment 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 175 against 6 abstentions 159.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u263	It was therefore adopted. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 91. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 180 against, 157 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u264	It was therefore adopted. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 11 against, 276 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u265	They are therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 176 against, 17 abstentions, 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u266	It was therefore adopted. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mrs Cañadell Salvia. Amendment 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 83 against, 157 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u267	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 13 against, 172 abstentions, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u268	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 65 against, 165 abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u269	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 118 against, 74 abstentions, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u270	It was therefore adopted. Amendment 78. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340; 159; 169; 12 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u271	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 80. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 118 against, 170 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u272	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 114 against, 171 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u273	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 84. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 26 against, 245 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u274	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 86. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 35 against, 295 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u275	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mrs Cañadell Salvia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 24 against, 155 abstentions, 161.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u276	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 123 against, 74 abstentions, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u277	It was therefore adopted. Amendment 56. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 42 against, 153 abstentions, 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u278	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 28 against, 296 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u279	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 86 against, 243 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u280	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 120 against, 150 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u281	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 94 against, 184 abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u282	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 171 against, 163 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u283	It was therefore adopted. Amendments 10, 15, 16 and 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 108 against 221 abstentions 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u284	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 153 against, 168 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u285	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 107 against, 174 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u286	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 105 against, 226 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u287	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 107 against, 213 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u288	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 113 against 159 abstentions 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u289	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 23, 26 and 27. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 145 against, 172 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u290	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 25 and 35 to 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 158 against 158; abstentions 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u291	We repeat the vote because of the tie. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 158 against 158; abstentions 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u292	There's been a tie again. We are going to proceed to a second repetition and, therefore, to a third vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 158 against 158; abstentions 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u293	The amendments are therefore rejected. Amendment 39. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 118 against 159 abstentions 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u294	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 158 against 171 abstentions 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u295	They are therefore rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIC LAW AMENDING ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO AGRAVE THE PENALTY PROVIDED FOR THE TREATMENT OF HUMANS DISPLACED BY AN ARMED CONFLICT OR A HUMANITARIAN CATASTROPHE [[PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO INCREASE THE CRIMINAL REQUIREMENTS PROVIDED FOR THE TREATMENT OF HUMANS DISPLACED BY THE BELIC CONFLICT MADE BY THE INVASION OF THE UCRANIAN TERRITORY BY THROUGH THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION]] [[File number 122/00214]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u296	We move on to the Proposition for an Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to aggravate the penalties for offences of trafficking in human beings displaced by armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophe, formerly known as the Proposition for an Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to aggravate the penalties for offences of trafficking in human beings displaced by war-related conflict caused by the invasion of Ukrainian territory by troops of the Russian Federation. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 10 against, 304 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u297	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 31 against, 153 abstentions, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u298	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. Amendment 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 122 against, 154 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u299	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 25 against, 306 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u300	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendment 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 64 against, 181 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u301	It's rejected. Amendment 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 152 against, 177 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u302	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 62 against, 272 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u303	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 101 against, 233 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u304	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 16 hours until 17 hours and 30 minutes today the rest of the items on the agenda which will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting will be voted on by telematics. I should also like to inform you that this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion of the Proposed Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, in order to aggravate the penalties provided for crimes of trafficking in human beings displaced by armed conflict or a humanitarian catastrophe. In view of its organic nature, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Accordingly, pursuant to this provision, he announced that such votes would not take place before seventeen and thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u306	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree Law 18/2022 of 18 October, adopting measures to strengthen the protection of consumers of energy and to contribute to the reduction of the consumption of natural gas in application of the Plan + safety for your energy, as well as measures regarding the remuneration of staff in the service of the public sector and the protection of potential agricultural workers affected by the drought. To present the royal decree law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u307	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much for being in this session, in which I intend to ask you for the validation of Decree Law 18/2022, approved, as indicated by the President, last October 18 in the Council of Ministers. It is a decree law incorporating some measures integrated into the Energy Security Plan, particularly those that we believe have a particularly direct connection with consumer protection, both domestic and industrial. And I do so one day immediately after I have been able to present and discuss in the Committee on Ecological Transition the detailed details of this plan, its objectives, the fundamental axes, the analysis of what is happening in Europe, always with caution, with prudence, knowing that Spain is in a greater security position than that of our neighbours and also knowing that we must not lower the guard, that probably the need to pay particular attention to winter 2022-2023 will be added to those of successive winters. [[The lady]] I would also like to say here in this House that, as I shared yesterday with the Members participating in the Commission, not only did I fulfil my commitment to come forward with the plan, but I would like to have the opportunity to continue to do so, at least once a quarter, because we need to strengthen energy security... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u308	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u309	... because we need, in this context of energy security, the Government to keep its particular attention on the citizens and the productive fabric of our country. We can't lower the guard, as I said before. We must continue to drive the savings, efficiency and structural response to this crisis and, in any case, we must remain particularly attentive to the social and economic impacts of a situation like this. It is not the first to live in this legislature and, as in the previous crisis, the Government has wanted to pay particular attention to the economy and to society. In the previous crisis we protected companies and workers with measures such as ERTE, ICO or self-help. We made a wall of social restraint to prevent the most vulnerable from suffering the ravages of the pandemic. We are looking for ways to achieve a rapid recovery of the country, relying on European solidarity. Today the context presents us an opportunity to continue working in this direction, in this case showing our solidarity with the Europeans, but also working on those measures that, as I said before, are in a position to support the citizens and the productive fabric in Spain in a situation of high energy prices that ends up impacting on inflation. We do not want the social and economic conditions of the Spaniards to be affected by this situation. We believe that we must pay particular attention to the vulnerable. In this sense, the tax and reduction of regulated costs that we have been adopting for months has made it possible to compensate by 39% the increase in energy costs on the final electricity bill between the first half of 2021 and the first half of 2022. In the Spanish retail market, where there is a high percentage of the regulated tariff, known as the PVPC, approximately 40%, Spain has a third position when assessing the highest increase in the cost of the invoice before taxes; however, if we take into account the compensation that has been experienced with the tax effort and the reduction of the regulated costs, we are placed in the 14th position of the European Union in the first half of 2022 in relation to the first half of 2021, that is, before the application of the Iberian mechanism, whose operation began last 15 June, was effective. In total, the effort accumulated since June 2021, when we began to take measures to protect families, to date amounts to EUR 35 billion, i.e. almost 3% of the GDP in Spain dedicated to preserving the economy and the well-being of workers, families, businesses and the self-employed, with the conviction that living a crisis does not mean giving up fighting for equity, fighting for progress, because we are convinced that we do not want to get out of it impoverished or with a devastated productive fabric; on the contrary, we want to ensure a fair response, a rapid capacity for recovery in the way out and a orientation at times of change that allows for the modernization and dynamism of our economy. The preparation of the Energy Security Plan has offered us a magnificent opportunity to listen, to dialogue with all actors, and, I repeat, I believe it is important to maintain and enrich this dynamic. We want to work together, build consensus as reflected in the plan, and we want to do so with all the forces of the parliamentary bow. This Decree-Law includes fundamental measures for the enhanced social protection of which he spoke. First, we extend the limit to the growth of the regulated rate of natural gas for families and SMEs until 31 December 2023; therefore, a limitation to the increase in the rate that has been applied since June 2021 and will extend - as I said - until the end of 2023. In addition, this standard introduces a new tariff that will benefit community owners with community heating systems. Because we want to support families and facilitate the behaviour of responsible energy consumption, we have designed a new tariff, in force also until 31 December 2023, to which all the communities of owners can be welcomed - we estimate that about 1.7 million households - provided that two conditions are met. The first is that individualized counter systems must be installed by September 2023. The commitment to do so by the community is sufficient to access the fee. Incorporating these meters before the end of September facilitates the gradual installation and access to the item of 40 million euros to replace analog meters that will make this improvement in knowledge of our consumption easier and more affordable. The second condition, besides having updated the review of boilers, thus ensuring their proper functioning, is to maintain the incentive to efficiency and savings in this type of consumption. We therefore calculate the average consumption of the community over the past five years, and 70% of that consumption is subject to a 40% discount, which means that the communities of owners who maintain the consumption will benefit from a reduction in the costs of their bill, which will reach about 50% savings in relation to an invoice that does not benefit from this tariff. Another important development is the creation of an extraordinary and temporary fee for families with up to 28 000 euros of income, with a number of people living in the same household, who, depending on the number of people and the characteristics of these people - minors or any other type of condition that allows access to the maximum of the reduction - can access a very significant reduction in the bonus, that is, what they pay in their electricity consumption and in their gas consumption. The neighbouring rate and the exceptional rate for families with incomes of up to 28 000 euros are new protection measures that extend the coverage of the middle class, of the working classes, but, at the same time, it is essential to strengthen the protection instruments intended for vulnerable consumers who today benefit from the electric social bonus. For this reason, we have increased the coverage of the electric social bond with up to 65 and 80% discount for vulnerable and severe, respectively; we have increased the allocation in the general budgets of the State to finance the thermal social bond both in 2022 and in 2023; we have increased the minimum amount of the aid, from the minimum 25 euros in the thermal social bond to the 40 euros monthly, and the average aid is raised to 375 euros for heating per beneficiary, and we have expanded the electricity consumption covered by the social bond. Let me also remind you of the obvious, which is also answered in this decree law. A situation like this requires maximum transparency, the best rigour in consumer information on their invoices. This is why, in accordance with the requests of the main consumer and user organisations, our invoice, starting in December, must incorporate the average consumption of households of the same postal code with a contracted power equivalent to ours; it must facilitate access to the information in a similar way to the comparison of offers that exists in the National Commission on Markets and Competition; it must introduce information approved both with regard to the tax reductions that we all benefit from, and in those cases where companies transfer the cost of gas adjustment, and linked to the Iberian mechanism, the merchants must reflect on the invoices the average cost of that adjustment in the last natural month in order to facilitate comparison, proportionality, between energy consumed and adjustment applied by the trader. Industrial consumers maintain until 31 December 2023 the special possibility that allows the industry to change the terms of their natural gas contracts, reinforcing flexibility at a time when it is particularly important. Being the most relevant social support package of this decree law, the protagonist, is not the only one. The Decree-Law also includes measures in line with the widespread demand for public administrations to take on a special role in energy saving. In particular, this Decree Law regulates one of the aspects related to consumption - responsibility of the administrations - which is particularly significant, that relating to outdoor lighting. In Spain there are more than eight million points of outdoor light, of which only 30% have LED lamps. For this reason, we have adopted a technical instruction that allows us to increase the efficiency in lighting. We calculated that the change in bulbs would allow a reduction of between 39 and 67 % in the consumption of each point. In principle, this applies to outdoor lighting, roads, public-owned streets and, possibly, concessionaires of motorways or other private facilities in a management context contracted by the Administration. It is mandatory for new lights to start operation from 1 January, but it is also a sign, it is a clear orientation for those who want to replace or modernise existing installations, which also have a special regime and support linked to the recovery plan. This measure is key, as the municipal outdoor lighting consumes around 5200 gigawatts/hour per year, i.e. 2 % of the national electricity consumption. We believe that a reform of these characteristics, provided that it is applied in a general way, could lead to a reduction of the order of 65% for a service that provides exactly the same quality conditions as the current one. Another area covered by the Decree-Law has been tax incentives to boost energy efficiency and savings. The text incorporates extended tax deductions for investments in rehabilitation, allowing families to deduct up to 20% of the investment, with a maximum of EUR 5000 per year, or even, if the house has an energy rating A or B after the intervention, it can be raised to 40%, up to a maximum of EUR 7500 per year. Companies also have additional flexibility that we consider important and that can encourage self-consumption investment. The freedom of amortisation of investments in renewables for self-consumption of any facility intended for industrial, commercial and service uses is established. It is a request that has been made to us by many of the industrial and commercial associations we have been working with over the past few months, and we believe that flexibility is allowed that can affect a good number of projects, up to a maximum of EUR 500 000 in investment. That is why we want to facilitate everyone's contribution to energy efficiency and saving, something that all the participants in this consensus debate have called for and worked with the various actors in recent months: how to channel, how to facilitate and how to encourage the contributions of those who want to do so. It is obviously a contribution to the overall capacity to achieve lower consumption, but it also directly reduces the energy bill of those who invest in efficiency. Finally, together with these consumer protection measures and increased energy savings, we have introduced a number of measures to continue the drive to the energy transition with proposals for self-consumption and renewable energy. Self-consumption is a reality very positively perceived by citizens, as evidenced by the spectacular increase in capacity installed in recent years. It is a useful and effective way to reduce our bill, and it has been essential to change the regulation to make it simpler and allocate resources from the recovery plan to facilitate access to the first self-consumption investment, but it has also allowed a spectacular increase. There is one fact that we have given on some occasions and that I would like to repeat once again, which shows the commitment, the support, but also the moment that is lived in the sector and the demand on the part of the citizens, and that is that in the ten months of 2022, from January to 31 October, the equivalent of ten times the power of self-consumption that existed in June 2018 has been installed in Spain. But this enormous development that self-consumption is experiencing in Spain requires constantly updated information, on a permanent basis, to avoid putting the system at risk. Therefore, the Decree-Law also introduces the duty of network operators to communicate to the operator of the electrical system, that is to say to the Electric Network, all the installations that are connected, in order to ensure good operation, to allow the identification of the new installations and to be able to facilitate the management with full security by the operator of the system. One of the most important keys to self-consumption must be that which occurs near the place where it is consumed. As we have been learning from the development of these capabilities, from limitations, from proximity, we have wanted to increase the distance to which shared self-consumption can be installed. The decree law increases from 500 to 1000 meters the authorized distance for shared self-consumption facilities, a distance that different actors, social groups, professionals and many of you in the parliamentary arc have asked us to increase up to 2 kilometers, which, we believe, can be done by fulfilling this requirement of communication, and that I hope can be transferred through the amendments in process to the rules that you are discussing at this time. Finally, the Decree-Law includes some additional measures, such as 1.5% compensation for salaries of public employees. Let me take this measure in the selection of those I explained when I presented the decree law to validation because it is particularly important and the result of consensus. It is a salary increase agreed within the framework of the General Bureau for the Negotiation of the Civil Service which is retroactive and which will be consolidated in this year, and this increase is therefore added to the 2% increase in public salaries which entered into force on 1 January this year. In short, the overall increase for officials in 2022 will be 3.5%. She concluded, Madam President, by pointing out once again that, despite the fact that we are going through circumstances which have created strong tensions in the global and European energy markets and which have forced us over the last few months to take urgent, extraordinary, agile measures and to remain pending as far as possible in the coming months in case we need to increase or facilitate additional measures, it is important to be able to have the greatest consensus, with the greatest support for the protection of citizens and our productive fabric. That is why, again, I would like to reiterate to you the Government's request to validate this royal decree law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, took part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u311	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice President Third. You have presented in just over twenty minutes a set of measures whose validation I will not answer, because with this umpteenth royal decree law you give continuity to the pertinent strategy of agglutinating in a legislative text a varied variety of subjects that themselves deserve a differentiated treatment. Some of these measures are part of the Energy Security + Plan, and they are an advance in meeting the objectives you explained after the Council of Ministers on 11 October; hence we are waiting for the government to administer them in propaganda doses to give a feeling that it is doing many things. The reality is that there are issues that are already part of previous decrees or that change the position of the Government, in the case of the regulated tariff or Last resort gas tariff for communities of neighbors or community gas boilers. There are also changes affecting the State General Budgets Bill 2023, which is currently under parliamentary procedure, but on which the impact on the public accounts of all these measures approved after their preparation will have to be applied. There is also a creative component, which occasionally coincides with proposals that opposition parties have been demanding for months. On the other hand, with regard to the protection of the most vulnerable consumers and the retail market, this text uses a reliable voucher, since it is conditional on the availability of a budget, in particular in the event of an increase in the minimum aid per beneficiary of the thermal social bonus. There is another collet, let's say, evanescent, when it is stated that for this item sufficient credit must be provided for the next financial year 2023. It is to be assumed, Madam Vice-President, that the corresponding appropriation, of the order of 225 million euros, will have to be incorporated by means of partial amendments, and then we will find out where this important amount will be extracted or collected. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already pointed out at last week's plenary session, also on the occasion, how not, of the debate on another royal decree law, that consumers do not get well stopped from some measures. With a Ministry of Consumer Affairs, it is now impossible in Spain to take advantage of the advantages of the new regulated market and to change certain tariffs, such as that of gas, because it is extremely difficult for thousands and thousands of consumer families to overcome the telephone barrier of the marketers. It has even been known a few hours ago that an important energy company programmed the web of its regulated gas tariff so that it was impossible to find it through the search engines. The well-known socialist influencer, Mr Carmona, could probably inform us of this issue. I would also like to refer to the very complex wording of supply contracts on the free market, including new concepts associated with invoices. If the energy receipt was already an indescribable gallimatia for the common of consumers, we now reach the level of hieroglyphic. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to take this opportunity to refer once again to the impoverishing consequences of the government's energy policy. Today, measures to strengthen the protection of energy consumers have to be implemented because we have been dragged into this situation by the different executives of Pedro Sánchez throughout the XIV Legislature, even in June 2018, with the Copernican turn of the energy policy announced to the European Union in the first days of setting up the government, with you, Mrs Ribera, of minister then and now. Constantly - a moment ago too - the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops of the energy misadjustment is blamed, but this destabilizing factor of the markets began nine months ago with a price escalation that, however, began a long time ago, and the damage to the interests of the citizens comes in different ways. The Spanish expect, for example, the explanations for the change in the Sahara, which has clouded trade relations with Algeria, including the loss of Spain's priority status to supply us with Algerian gas, from what other countries have already used to formalize long-term supply contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, today I will not dwell on coal, except to point out that in the Asturiasn port of El Musel the import of this mineral has grown in the last year of the order of 14%, and a significant part, more than 60,000 tons, from Russia. On a future trip to Kiev, President Sánchez should explain to Mr Zelenski this about importing Russian coal in the midst of sanctions for the terrible invasion of Ukraine. Finally, with regard to gas, Mrs Ribera, and referring to measure 72 of the most secure plan for your energy, concerning the putting into operation of the regasification plant at El Musel, which will make available to the Member States additional storage, I would like to remind you that you have full responsibility in the middle of the ten years that have been wasted in putting in service the regasification plant at Gijón. The Journal of Sessions collects the numerous times that some of us have demanded in the General Courts the implementation of this infrastructure that now Enagas will devote exclusively to warehouse, and will do so with your complacency, Minister for the Ecological Transition. In a historic energy moment for Europe and the world, the use of this regasifier, I repeat, ten years hibernated, unused, will not favor consumers, but will serve to speculate with the price of gas and resell it to third parties with procedures to destroy it. Not even Asturias will benefit, because it lacks a gas connection, and it will not be useful to reduce the energy costs of Spain and the region, which has in its electro-intensive industry a gradual loss of competitiveness that results in the destruction of jobs. In short, I will not support the validation of this royal decree law by which once again the Government, in energy matters, gives the Spanish cat for hare. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u312	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u313	Thank you very much, President. [[The lady]] This is one of those moments when it is difficult for one to understand parliamentary dynamics, because this debate, which is practically identical, we had yesterday, not long ago. Yesterday we were talking about this, the vice president appeared, we all had the opportunity to express our arguments and, probably, that's what's going to happen today. I know that in politics - probably not only in politics, in more places - we say that what abounds doesn't hurt, but it can bore us. So I'm going to try not to, not use just the same arguments I used yesterday, although temptations give for comfort, and I'll be brief. I would like to refer to five elements: those that have to do with self-consumption, the democratization of the electricity system, transparency, the defence of basic rights in order to end energy poverty and the need to put an end to situations of defencelessness. But before that, I would like to move something that I also pointed out yesterday. This Government, like society as a whole, is not alien to a reality that is being tried to install from the media arm of certain economic powers and political ideas, which is the threat of the blackout, the fear of an imminent blackout that little less alters our lives again almost in terms equivalent to what the pandemic might have had. This generates anxiety, creates fear and, probably, also generates the expansion of the most pilgrim, more negationist or more barbaric ideas that can be given. He has not explained it today, as he did yesterday, but surely the data are the same about the gas storage capacity and the need to predict any disruptive scenario. It would be a good opportunity for you to banish that possibility, that fear or that threat and thus give a certain element of certainty. Since I am talking about gas, I would like to refer to something - I am making a small paragraph - that has been said by the previous speaker in this rostrum, Mr Martínez Oblanca, before the People's Party, now for the Asturias Forum and then not for the People's Party. You said that for ten years now El Musel has been standing still, and this seems to be true, because yesterday it was so expressed in the Commission, but it is the Minister Ribera who bears full responsibility. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca raises his hand with five fingers and says, "Five years."]] I think it will have taken him all the time the Government has had to go through, but I do not think that 10 years ago another person who was not his or her co-religionist was in the Government. Did you throw your party mate out of your ears in those first five years? Are you sure he threw a lot at her ears? [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca makes affirmative gestures]] [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca makes affirmative gestures]] The Asturias Forum did not leave because of that; it would be because of other things, but not because of that. Maybe the force didn't have it. I will try to focus, in order to comply with the shortness of the intervention, on what has to do with self-consumption. It seems to us that encouraging and promoting self-consumption is the most effective way to escape the clutches of an oligopoly that is increasingly fierce and voracious. We believe that the bureaucratic obstacles that still exist today by different local bodies or institutions, in our case outside, or by autonomous governments, need to be further accelerated. We believe that elements such as the virtual battery are interesting, because they allow to bring to citizens the ability to save and the ability to predict their consumption, in order to save and escape inflationary prices. In addition, that brings us closer to the Sustainable Development Goals in terms of reduction. It should now be remembered that, unfortunately, we are doing very badly with the reduction target that we had set ourselves for 2030 in the emission of gases. That 45% drop we wanted to have by 2030, unfortunately, seems to be going to be by 2030 by 10% more than we already had in 2010. Therefore, everything that is done in that line of self-consumption through renewable energies will be good. The other element is the democratization of the electricity system. We think it's good to increase from 500 meters to 2 kilometers. We are not entirely clear whether that resolves all the different cases that occur in the Spanish State - I am thinking about our geographical boundaries - but let us study it, because we believe that energy communities are the best guarantee to escape the oligopoly, to have public control and to keep everything that occurs in a territory in that territory, as well as the benefits that can be derived from what happens. That's something very different from what we're living today. Today Iberdrola, with Mr Galán at his head, says that since he has done very well the year, as he has had some extraordinary benefits, he will distribute a bonus of 200 million for his line of managers, not for all people. That's not that wealth stays in the territory. Or the Repsol case, which announces that, as things have gone very well, will increase its dividends to its shareholders by 11%. That's not that wealth stays in the territory. Another element I wanted to point out is transparency. We think it is important what he points out about invoices, but we must have a much stronger voice with what Iberdrola, Endesa and other gas companies have been doing. They are subjecting citizens to a macabre roulette in which through unanswered phone calls, offline websites and indexations of their own trading subsidiaries are preventing people from hosting the last resort rate to continue making more money. That's denouncingable, and that would have to be a felony. I don't know if the Minister of Consumer Affairs or the Ministry of Consumer Affairs or the National Commission on Markets and Competition or who, but someone should take letters on the matter. The other element is the need for a basic right to end energy poverty. We believe that all that has been said about the thermal social bonus, the electrical social bonus, income subsidies under EUR 28 000, etc. is well. In other words, we believe that anything that is a structural rather than a cyclical coverage is necessary, because the right to energy and electricity is the best way to end what is sometimes called energy poverty. I'm on my way. I believe that we must also put an end to the situations of defencelessness that have been taking place. Owner communities that had community boilers were seeing an extra penalty because they could not benefit from any rate. We've been calling for this to change since March. Luckily, today seems like this is going to change. What we believe is that it also has to adapt to the new typologies. Community boilers are no longer a privilege of the upper classes, but many buildings with social housing have decided to opt for this model and it is fair that they too can benefit from some kind of bonus, such as the last resort rate. Besterik ez. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u315	Thank you, President. Today we will vote in favour of the validation of Decree Law 18, which contains eighteen of the seventy-three measures of the energy security plan, specifically those aimed at mitigating the effects of the energy crisis caused by the Ukraine war on businesses and citizens in the short term, as well as others aimed at accelerating the energy transition. In addition to this, and as is customary, some measures are also adopted in this decree which have nothing to do with the war in Ukraine, such as the approval of the additional 1.5 increase for civil servants and the reduction of thirty-five to ten days so that potential workers can benefit from unemployment benefit and agricultural income in Extremadura and Andalusia, for a reduction in production due to rainfall. Among the measures, the application of a 40% discount on the electricity bill for low-income families and workers affected by the crisis and the - persistent - increase in the social bonus discounts, so that for vulnerable consumers it goes from 60 to 65 %, while for severe vulnerable consumers it goes from 70 to 80. This decree also contains a measure that this group and another series of groups requested, through a GNP and also an amendment to Decree 14: we asked to give a solution to the communities of neighbors with gas boilers, so that they could receive the existing TUR corresponding to them according to their average annual consumption per dwelling. However, in this decree, the Government has created a special TUR for communities based on the level of annual consumption but of the entire community of owners. We believe that they are two different concepts but, ultimately, the result is that they are in TUR and not in the free market. However, the decree states that in the new TUR tariff only 70% of it is subsidized, and given the current circumstances for many consumers I believe that perhaps a larger amount, even one hundred percent, could be subsidised, as we have requested, since it is a temporary measure that lasts until 2023, when moreover so far they have not been able to benefit from this tariff. We also ask that energy service companies that provide services to the communities of owners be able to benefit from TUR, and the truth is that it also collects it. However, given the problems they have in moving to this new rate, it may be advisable to establish some automatic mechanism for transferring customers to TUR; otherwise, customers will be delayed in recognising the new rates this winter and companies will be created a bottleneck. In addition, it should be recalled that the third additional provision requires that communities of owners must request prior authorization from the Directorate-General for Energy Policy and Mines through electronic registration, which may also delay these changes. We also ask to promote, implement and improve or finance the replacement of the 100 per cent of the currently deployed park of smart natural gas meters to encourage more active participation of consumers and to enable them to use available information to save on their consumption. This measure is also included, but leaves its development to a later regulation. In this sense, it might be interesting for the IDAE, with energy efficiency funds, to subsidise the implementation costs of these meters in a percentage, to give soft credits or to establish a reasonable rent on gas tariffs, because the cost of installing these meters for a family can also be high. We also stress that until December 2023 companies and self-employed persons will be able to change their contracted power more than once within a period of less than the usual twelve months, until December 2023, and also the flexibility of the extended industrial gas contracts. The mechanism for reducing the excessive remuneration of the electricity market, introduced by Decree 17/2021, is extended until 31 December so that the excess remuneration of the electricity companies can return to the system and can be directed to help self-employed people, businesses and households; in line with what Europe has established in the regulation adopted on an emergency intervention to deal with high energy prices. It is a decree, and it must be recognized, which has also given impetus to self-consumption and energy communities. Mr Matute commented on the restrictions on limits. It is that collective self-consumption does have limits, but energy communities do not. We believe, in this respect, that the energy communities would have to be regulated even more as a result of the existing directive. In this sense, we must also say that we still do not solve the lack of capacity at the points of connection to the network because, as is often said, they are copped by the big ones. There are knots that sometimes appear and disappear and you can't be waiting more than a year for the contests to come out for your award. In this sense, apart from the modifications made in relation to the access and connection to the network in this royal decree - some of them further restrict access to the networks, such as the fact that they remain reserved for competition -, regardless of whether the reserved capacity has been reduced below the limit of 100 megawatts, we believe quite the contrary that it is necessary to raise that limit of 100 megawatts so that, in accordance with the existing rules, the general criterion of managing the granting of access and connection permits is met to some extent so that the priority is temporary, since with that limit the entire capacity of the transport network has been reserved for the system of competitions, which also leads to a total blockage in access and connection to the distribution networks as required, in accordance with the existing rules for installations of more than 4 megawatts, the report of acceptability of the transmission system operator. In addition, it should be noted that such a limitation entails a blockade of new entrants of renewables in Spain, especially if there is an urgent need for the construction and development of additional projects that allow for faster progress towards the decarbonization of the economy and energy independence, even more so after the crisis of the war in Ukraine. Even if the limit is raised to 350 megas for example, more than 76,600 megawatts will remain reserved for competitions, which we understand is more than enough. However, we believe that these are sufficient measures and that they come from the energy security plan. Once again we will support them, but we understand that perhaps some could be improved a posteriori. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u316	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u317	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Vice-President, the first thing I would like to say to you is something I did not want to comment on in the Commission yesterday because today we were going to discuss this royal decree law. In the meetings that we had before the summer until relatively recently - where you have brought us up to date on what was being done in Europe, in the European Commission, and where we have delivered proposals, not only us but other political parties in this parliamentary arc - you committed from the government - not only you, but also Mr Bolaños and Mr Simancas - to send us the measures before they were adopted so that we could get to know them, so that we could discuss them and even really reach a consensus on them. But it's not like that. They didn't even send them to us before they announced in the press the contingency plan, which is something we also requested at the last meeting, and it doesn't suit us. Vice-President, we believe it has been a collaborative work and, in fact, we can see in this royal decree part of some of the measures we have presented, many of which we have given to the ministry for collaborating without having registered them in the House. I mean, what we wanted was to add and you, without anyone asking for anything from the beginning, promised to inform us beforehand, but it has not been so. What are we meeting? Another royal decree law that is already approved by the Council of Ministers and in which we have very little room to modify, improve and try to reach agreements to make it better. That is why I say to you that if what you are really looking for is a consensus and we are all fighting together in a critical energy situation - and what is going to be worse than what we have experienced - I believe that the ministry and the government should fulfil that commitment that they have made at the meetings we have held in recent months. Speaking of the royal decree, in general, we will support it. There are many measures - as I have told you - that we can see reflected, as in the subject of bureaucracy, the renewables, and many other aspects that we have been sending them; but there is one that I would like to highlight. With regard to the measures on the gas and electricity tariff, the application of the limitation of the last resort tariff for consumers of less than 50,000 kilowatts until the end of 2023 is extended, and the communities of owners are given the opportunity to benefit from the last resort rate of natural gas. This seems to us to be positive, however, as consumers who want to make this change to the tariff are being hit, it is still enormous to make it effective. Therefore, it is not understood why this measure is temporary, perhaps it should be extended in time and not left only until the end of 2023. On the measures for the processing of renewable projects, the reduction of barriers that hinder or hinder the processing of projects and installations is something that we had proposed in this House in a proposal for a law already long ago, and that, within the measures we handed over to it, we had already collected it. But I want to point out that there is a need for more staff to deal with those projects that enter a bottleneck and that they need to continue the process in order to receive funding, even to receive investments. As for the measures of self-consumption and the increase of the maximum distance to 2000 meters, we, in a real previous decree on the exceptional measures for the war of Ukraine, had already recorded an amendment in similar terms; we asked for them to be 1000 meters, but we believe that between 1000 and 2000 is acceptable, so it seems acceptable to us. With regard to renewable electricity production measures, the possibility is given to renewable plant owners to obtain exceptional injection permits which temporarily give them the possibility to inject up to the full installed power, in order to avoid the combined cycle being covered. We also believe that this possibility should not be temporary. If it is treated as a bill, we have recorded amendments to improve these last points that I have commented on. And we do not understand why a tax measure which is of pure common sense could not be included in this royal decree, and that the reduced rate of 5% of gas VAT should be extended until 31 March 2023. Why? Because winter doesn't end now in January, winter ends in March, or at least there are places in our country where temperatures are really going to remain low until March. Therefore, although we will support it, we do want it to be treated as a bill and we will vote in favour of it as such. I asked the Commission yesterday about the time limits for the measures, what time limits, what they want to carry out first, how the following measures and the amendments are going to be proposed. But there is one thing we are very concerned about, and it is the modification of the PVPC. I asked him yesterday in the Commission, we had no opportunity to comment, he did not reply, but we are concerned because it is a recommendation from Brussels. It is also something that the Government has committed itself to and something that we have requested on various occasions from Citizens. It should have been, at least, in Royal Decree 10/2022, in whose preamble it appeared that it would have to be before 1 October this year, and we do not yet have it and do not know what deadlines we have for that amendment, which we think is very important and which perhaps should be prioritizing other measures that could be expected. For all this, I would like to reiterate that we will continue to work together, but I believe that they would have to fulfil the commitment to have closer contact and to show the measures before they are adopted in the Councils of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u318	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u319	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, we are faced with a new royal decree of so-called buses, which contain very different measures, among others, in the energy field, for example, that compensatory increase of 1.5% in the salary of public employees, a method which this Government is abusing and which hinders debate and political positioning. Actions aimed at alleviating the rise in energy prices, which particularly affects families, as well as the entire productive and business sector, in our view, are clearly insufficient, both for their entity and for their temporality. Of course, we see favourable measures such as the increase of the social bonus, aid to vulnerable consumers or the ease of expansion of self-consumption; but we also want to point out that the Government continues without carrying out an in-depth review of the electricity and energy system, and maintains a refusal to take more stringent measures, claiming that they are impossible, until they are, or have no place within the framework of European legislation, until other countries adopt them, for example, Germany. Let us remember, once again, in this forum, the measures proposed by the BNG, which we believe would be truly useful to put energy production under public control, to eliminate the marginalist market for pricing, to bet on the creation of public enterprises, also in our field, in Galicia, for the management of energy produced with the resources of all; to limit the price of electricity in the final market...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u320	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u321	...or remove all improper costs from the invoice. In short, we believe that much more can and should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u323	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, minister. In fact, this royal decree is a battery of measures aimed at the urgent, the important, to ensure that no one spends cold this winter with measures as important as extending the last resort rate, which, by the way, Minister, companies are torpedoing everything they can and more. That is why transparency, understanding and control of billing systems are of particular importance; it is absolutely essential. On the other hand, for us, for More Country Greens Equo, it is very important in this decree the expansion of social coverage. We are, however, satisfied with the extension of the thermal social bonus, but we must ensure - and this is really important - that the aid is quickly and agile. In short, it is a real decree that we will support because it seems urgent and important to us and because it goes in the right direction. Now, we must be able to reconcile the measures that we are going to adopt today, which are of immediate relief to families and businesses, without losing sight of the climate emergency horizon we are in, and therefore the need to reduce demand and improve the efficiency of our buildings and democratize the electricity system. That is why we are absolutely in favour of changing the criteria - it is very good news - for the extension up to the 2 kilometers of collective self-consumption that the minister announced yesterday. It is a way of democratizing energy, encouraging self-consumption and energy communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u324	Mrs. Sabanes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u325	For everything I have put forward, we are going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u327	Thank you, President. Minister, this royal decree could have been presented in five or six different royal decrees, but you have become accustomed to imposing the theory of lentils: either you take it or you leave it. There is not a single force here that with its vote in this royal decree can faithfully express its position. They prevent a deep debate on each of the issues because they have become accustomed, as I say, to presenting real Macedonian decrees. Since June 2021, Minister, before the war, you have put in place eight royal decrees of shock measures, but many of the measures that you have announced and that you have filled headlines or have not finished or are not being implemented. In fact, it is announced, for example, a strike by the transporters because the Royal Decree Law 14/2022 of 1 August has not been complied with. Madam Minister, not only do you not comply with many of the pacts that you reach with political parties, you do not comply with many of the proposals that you make yourself. It is also worth noting that in this royal decree they again propose to compensate the big electrics for the losses that these aid measures may cause them. The big electrics are doing their own August and you know it, we know it, all the citizens know it, but you insist, despite the crisis, on continuing to compensate them. Legislen, minister, for this to end. This last point is far from the proposals we make in Junts per Catalunya. We have proposed, for example, an extraordinary fund of EUR 10 billion to be able to help small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people cope with the bills of light, or an extraordinary fund of EUR 6 billion to be able to help the municipalities also deal with these bills of light. This happens when the price of gas has fallen and Spain is again the country with the most expensive electricity in the European Union. Therefore, in the midst of a climate emergency, in the midst of an energy price crisis, some even welcome the fact that this government extends the distance between production and consumption from half a kilometre to one, which is what this royal decree says, or two, which is what you announced yesterday, but only on decks. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] That is right, on the bill of light from now on it will be obliged to put that you are so good that you have lowered VAT so that all citizens can see it when you open the bill of light. I'm finishing up. I am addressing the Government's spokesman, also you, Minister, all the Ministers and Ministers of this Government, Members and Members, so that you do not get into trouble again, so that you speak with a minimum of rigour. Runaway is his king Juan Carlos, that king 1 who makes us pay everyone. [[Thief]] A little respect. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] And if anyone has to come to account here, it's you, 155. Thank you very much. Visca Catalunya free.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. The expression referred to the Emeritus King shall be removed from the Journal of Sessions. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u329	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, in view of the prospect of a raw winter that is already around the corner - this afternoon, in fact, has appeared in Madrid - marked by the advance of the war in Ukraine and its consequences, the Spanish Government approved last October 11th the so-called Plan + Energy Security, with the aim - as they say - of protecting consumers and reducing gas consumption. A plan that includes seventy-three measures, of which eighteen are now taken in this royal decree, since it implements measures that will be able to cover vulnerable and severe vulnerable families. Without saving you the reproach of using the bus, we can only support it, more if it establishes, as Esquerra defends since the Nadal times, the possibility of modifying the power contract more than once a year. Between yesterday and today, this speech has had to be changed, and I only welcome having had to change it. When on the 19th we ran to see where his measurements were being made in the BOE, our joy was in a well in accordance with article 15 of this royal decree, where we hoped that, at least, we would reach the standard European distance in shared self-consumption, where we read to our astonishment that it was 1000 meters. The disappointment, not only mine, knows that it ran like a lava river, and here came my incendiary speech of whether the Spanish electron is half as smart as the Portuguese, that if the cui prodest. This is why you appeared in the Commission yesterday afternoon at a laudable turn of the script and announced that the government would agree to amend itself in the interests of common sense and what Europe is implementing. Good. Without the encouragement of any spoiler, but as a sign of what we perceive as a firm commitment, we have already begun to talk to his agile and skilful spokesman about how we can soon implement his commitment, which we are convinced that many users and their suffering bank accounts will thank, as well as contribute solidly to decarbonisation, because the energy security that surrounds his plan also goes through self-consumption and shared self-consumption. The 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. energy security passes through shared self-consumption as a key tool to increase the contribution of cities to the energy transition, because more megawatts on the roofs is less land use, and because every kilowatt produced on your roof is a kilowatt that disappears from your bill. [[Applauds]] Disappear from your bill whether you are a private consumer or an industrial consumer. And not only on the roofs, minister - perhaps for his haste and sure it is also mendable -, in his last reform you have forgotten that roads or urban spaces anthropographed can be exploited with photovoltaic pergola and other renewable technologies and that much remains to be explored in the field of agrovoltaism. But let's not confuse staff, self-consumption, yes; shared self-consumption, better; shared self-consumption with European rules, even better; but the energy communities are the fetus. Do not wait for our acritic yes until it is resolved, through the transposition of the two European directives for which the MEPs committed to decarbonisation have fought so hard. Two, minister, one of 2017 and another of 2019, and we're finishing the year 2022. And more. We already told you yesterday that we lack the regulation of the self-consumption manager, dynamic coefficients of self-consumption, regulation of energy communities, the pending regulation of the PVPC, improve the conditions of industrial cogeneration, convene submarginal auctions, the regulation of closed networks. We have taken a step, but in this or in the multiple bills that are becoming norm from these real decrees laws - and there are ten - we must continue to work for the commitment of the government - of the PSOE and of Podemos that gives them support - with a kilowatt hour clean, democratic and close, and for those three reasons - clean, democratic and close - also cheaper. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u331	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Vice President. The truth is that Mr Capdevila's intervention and his reference to the Nadal brothers brought to my head the deficit of energy legislation that the Rajoy government left us. It comes to heart because also in this tenth royal decree, with the presence of the minister here today and yesterday in the Commission, we have to listen to you giving lessons of how good everything would be if your measures had been implemented. It is no wonder that the Rajoy government was unable to bring forward a climate change law because its ministers of environment, Mrs Tejerina, and Energy, Mr Nadal - who reminded us of Capdevila - were unable to agree. Only when the motion of censure already triumphed and you passed to the opposition did you register a climate change law. Now they say you would have made a much better law. Nor do you come up, Minister, with which the self-consumption has increased ten times, because what these gentlemen left us, the truth, was burnt land. With its sun tax, we did not install a kilowatt of self-consumption in our country, which, logically, is good that we multiply by ten, but we have to multiply by much more, because, really, the momentum that we must give to the energy transition is very important. In short, gentlemen of the People's Party, really, Rajoy's government's inheritance in renewable energy was the inheritance of closed companies, thousands of jobs lost and Spain losing the ranking of leadership in renewable energy that it had in the world. I am already focusing on the issue of the real decree, which really matters to us and for which we have raised our voice for a long time: the problem of the excessive cost of gas for families living in buildings with communal boilers. This is a reality echoed by the United Nations Group We can for months, as it cannot be otherwise, because it is an issue that seriously affects thousands of families who are forced to pay excessive gas bills. Fortunately, the Government has heard and sought a solution that is reflected in this royal decree, a solution that goes by putting on the table EUR 3 billion to try to cushion the rise in the price of light and gas. With this aid package aimed at reducing the electricity bill for Spanish households, the Government is taking a new step forward in the fight against excessive energy expenditure for families, especially the most vulnerable. Thus, buildings that share boilers can benefit from a new regulated tariff for centralized boilers of natural gas. This tariff will limit the increase in prices until the end of 2023, as is already the case with regulated tariffs for private individuals. This responds to that demand and, of course, we in the United Nations Group can only express our satisfaction. But I want to draw attention to the fact that some of the big electrical companies in the electric oligopoly are really taking advantage of the situation to continue increasing their profits. Iberdrola's consolidated profit in the first half of 2022 amounted to EUR 2076 million, 36% more than in the same period last year. In the case of Repsol, between January and September it achieved a result of €3222 million, 66% more than in the same period of 2021. This again shows that our energy sector is in the hands of an oligopoly, an oligopoly that increases its benefits as the vulnerability of the most vulnerable families increases. And not only that, but Iberdrola programmed the Cur Energia page, its regulated tariff marketer for light and gas, so that it was impossible to find it in searches from Google. He did so by adding the non-index label to the source code of the web that indicates to all search engines that the owner does not want it to be displayed in any of his results, not even by introducing the term Curenergy directly. I believe that this situation shows once again that this dependence on our country's energy oligopoly is a sick dependence with which we have to end. It is essential that we move forward in our country towards public intervention in the energy sector; a sector that is key to our country - we are living it every day - and that, however, unlike other countries in our environment, the countries of the European Union, there is neither a public enterprise nor a public participation in most of the companies in that energy oligopoly. We are therefore probably from the few countries of the European Union and Western countries in which there is no State involvement in a strategic sector such as the energy sector. This limits the ability to intervene. Obviously, the Government is doing so through these regulations of real decrees, but we believe-and in the United We can continue to work in that line - which is essential the presence of the public sector in a sector as important as the energy sector. We believe that all these events that have occurred in recent months or years, in which we face additional difficulties due to the consequences of the overprice of energy for the war in Ukraine, all they do is to make that need even more evident. So, as I say, the United Group We can continue to work until the energy oligopoly ceases to be the one that has in its hands the future of energy prices and, ultimately, the future of the economy of our homes. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u332	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u333	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you bring us a real decree law that you have already put a lot of qualifications throughout today, but the truth is that you mix it in it - which is a rule that, by definition, is approved for the extraordinary and urgent need of the issues that it addresses - matters so varied that go from self-consumption to the remuneration of agricultural workers and the requirements of the peonadas to then be able to charge that so-called PER, passing through the specific regulation of the City of Energy Foundation - one of those bars of the Ministry of Ecological Transition through which you channel grants above all for your friends -, the social bonus, a specific regulation for consumers of natural gas and electricity and an adaptation for the system of injection of renewable gases to the system of gas channeling of Spain. In short, you mix a number of subjects that each of them would require specific regulation and specific legislative processing. These are matters so very relevant to Spain and to the Spaniards that they do not deserve a dip like the one you bring us here today. Moreover, with each of these distinct and heterogeneous points that you address in this royal decree law what you do is to introduce small patches into a system that obviously doesn't work because, minister, you can't pretend to cover the holes in the system with tirites that, as a casket, you are introducing. Madam Minister, you have to change the Spanish energy system from A to Z because - as Mr de Podemos says, for them to make it all public - even if Spain had seventeen public energy companies, the price of electricity and gas would remain exactly the same for two reasons: first, the marginalist pricing system and, secondly, the CO2 emission allowances which ultimately act as an undercover tax and which tax the Spanish in all their activities, because these taxes are paid from oil to energy generation or industrial production All the products consumed by the Spanish at the end are burdened by their energy policy, and it is precisely that energy policy that does not work. [[Applauds]] You can introduce endless point subsidies here or there, help this sector or this other, but if you don't change the whole system, we will never achieve in Spain a reliable, cost-effective and affordable electricity and energy system for all Spaniards. Going further to the question, these little patches you're introducing all they do is add a terrible complexity to this system. The proof is that of the social bonus - of which you now extend its amount - only 45% of potential applicants have been able to fill out the forms to opt for that fund. How can this be, Minister? How can it be? Why don't you attack those intrinsic deficiencies that our energy system has and stop imposing patches one by one? The reality is that you continue to be obsessed with your ideological imposition You are committed to making us commulgate with mill wheels, when the situation in Spain does not allow it. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I beg you to listen to me and attend to me. [[The third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge spoke words that were not perceived]] It doesn't really seem like it. As I said, you, Minister, created an energy system that did not foresee an alternative if a crisis such as the one that comes with the rise in gas prices, one, for the war in Ukraine and, two, for bad diplomatic relations with Algeria. You got rid of the spare wheels of that car in which we circulate all the Spaniards and now, which has happened the emergency and we have had the puncture, you shrug your shoulders and say, "Wow, for God's sake, we don't have an emergency system!" And what you propose to us is that we continue to move forward with the folded wheel, suffering that situation the Spaniards. That's exactly what they're doing. Madam Minister, we have to go back to a reasonable system, a system in which the energy mix does not make us depend on one or two energy systems exclusively.We need to go back to a system in which hydrocarbons are not as severely penalised as they are today. [[Applauds]] Minister, with the litre of 2 euros in diesel, Spain cannot work. 90% of the goods circulating in Spain are moving by road and that form of transport will not change in the short term, no matter how hard you are. So, Minister, I repeat the question I asked you the other day, why do you not consult the Spanish instead of imposing your dogmas? Why not ask them and let Spain decide whether it wants its system expensive, inefficient and harmful to Spain's interests or whether, on the contrary, the Spaniards prefer to depend on their energies, exploit the energy resources that we have in Spain, many or few? Why not ask them whether they prefer Greta Thunberg or whether they prefer a reasonable, sustainable and efficient energy system? Madam Minister, please let Spain decide. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u334	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u335	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Ribera, this is the 20th chance this House gives you to try to fix the energy disaster that you are leading to our country. After ten royal decrees laws, after five bills, after a bill, after the climate change law, after the recovery plan and the contingency plan, after the assault on the independence of the CNMC, you are the only one who has managed to collect huge amounts of taxes and create new figures that mainly pay the middle and working classes, such as the plastic tax, such as the creation of the diesel tax, the waste tax, the sun hatch that involves the compensation of the gas of the self-consumers, the millionaire subsidy to France and Portugal for the Iberian exception that they are paying in their receipts SMEs, autonomous and middle and working classes and that do not pay French consumers and that pay very few Portuguese consumers. [[applause]] These are your achievements, of which there is consistency, all the rest are uncertainties that only you do well because you seek reason through propaganda. I don't doubt his goodwill, but he has an imaginative management, as it seems more like he's playing the regulatory lottery to see if he ever gets it right. No one has had as many opportunities, no minister or minister of this government has appeared as many times as you have in this House and, despite everything, you are the worst student of this massive class of ministers, who have left you alone today. Their achievements are to bring a huge amount of regulation, of real decrees laws, which they only do is to correct themselves in an endless succession of laws that patch, cover or correct the former. Mrs Ribera, you're a bad minister, I don't say it, you say it yourself. Look, I'm going to try to show in your own words the inconsistencies and the lack of rigour and seriousness of your energy policy. First, says the explanatory statement of the Royal Decree Law 10/2022, creating the Iberian exception, that the measure does not in any way imply an incentive to gas consumption, but allows to attract renewable investment, but when we ask you in writing you answer us that the Iberian exception does not aim to save gas. And you're here to talk to us today about energy saving? The Iberian exception has managed to trigger gas consumption, especially Russian gas. This, Miss Rivera, is an incongruity and a clumsiness of yours. Secondly, they say in the explanatory statement of the royal decree law that today bring to validation that the implementation of the Iberian exception has brought potential savings for all end-users of electricity close to the 3000 million euros in the first four months of operation, but when in a parliamentary response it ensures that the cost of adjustment for gas compensation is 5343 million euros, which fall on the consumers because the government does not put a single cent. When we ask you how many domestic consumers pay the cost for gas compensation, you say you don't know. Nor do you know how many direct consumers are affected by the algae subsidy. Mrs Ribera, we have asked you more than ten questions about the Iberian exception and you have only told us that the adjustment mechanism has cost us almost EUR 5400 million to save the PVPC consumers EUR 314 million. The subsidy to France is more than twice what vulnerable consumers are supposed to have saved. And, Mrs Ribera, you haven't managed to lower the final price of the electric bill. What is the point of a low wholesale market - in which Portugal and France are taking advantage of the Iberian exception - if domestic consumers, SMEs and self-employed people pay the light more expensive than the rest of our neighbours in Europe? And how do you want to solve this? It wants to solve this by twisting the independence of the CNMC, asking it to make a report that speaks well of the Iberian exception, and also forcing it to include propaganda in the electric bill. It is shameful, Mrs Ribera, that they force the marketers to include their propaganda. [[Applauds]] They call for the reduction to be included and for the reduction of VAT on gas to be said to be thanks to the Government. Mrs Ribera, why do you not include that the reduction in VAT on light has been because the People's Party has demanded it six times for more than a year? Do you know what I'm telling you? [[Laughter]] That propaganda won't do you any good. Despite her, this is a failure of hers. Third. Do you remember the Governing Council of 11 June 2021 in which you said that our first priority was the exclusion of fossil fuels and, in particular, of natural gas from European financing for gas infrastructure, which would be sunk assets? There was still the fresh ink of your statements in which you rejected the interconnections when you said very solemnly that the MidCat could be operational in eight months; fifteen days later you assured that a gas pipeline between Spain and Italy was a very serious bet and twenty days later you said that in four or five years the gas pipeline between Barcelona and Marseille would be built, because you have seen some scribbles on a sheet that tell you that that's a good way. [[Applauds]] Quite a record, Mrs Ribera, three pipelines in a month and a half. You, who were neither able nor able to keep the Maghreb pipeline open; you, who have caused us to lose 25% of the gas per tube; you, who have asked that pipelines not be financed with European funds; you, who are buying more Russian gas and coal than anyone else in Europe, now pretend that we believe in Mrs Ribera's metamorphosis. Fourth and end, you said on June 30, 2022 - and today Mr López de Uralde has reiterated - referring to the People's Party, that we were a party that had the burden of imposing a sun tax, but when we ask and answer you tell us that the sun tax never existed. [[Laughter and applause]] Never! And I ask you, that a self-consumer, whose electricity is mostly solar, pays seventeen cents of the kilowatt for gas compensation is not a hatchet in the sun? I'm on my way. Do like Germany, that's a real gas stop. What you intend to sell us is a deception, a clear deception to the citizens that no one else you believe is going to buy. The government's energy bandages are getting very expensive to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Requena. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs García Chavarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u337	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Over the course of this year we have brought to validation several decrees laws to alleviate, in fact, the effects of this energy crisis. This, as the Vice-President said, is the tenth since June that applies protection and support measures to families, businesses, the self-employed, the middle working class and the most vulnerable. There are no chiringuitos here, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in any case only yours. In short, they are measures for all citizens, who have seen energy prices diminish their chances of reaching the end of the month. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, this government has lived up to the situation; it has done so before with the pandemic and is doing so now with the energy crisis. In fact, Mr Requena, thanks to the mechanisms put in place, he has managed to bring down inflation throughout the euro area in Spain and, moreover, today we reach a record number of jobs, with more than 100,000 new jobs and 27 000 unemployed less than last month. [[applause]] That is our way of doing politics, which we Socialists have always done and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have never understood when you have ruled or now in the opposition. They are two antagonistic ways of governing and two antagonistic ways of doing politics. It is that of this Government, putting people in the centre, building bridges for the protection of people, households and businesses and taking measures - of course, of course, also measures - to make more contributions to those who have the most and, above all, to make more contributions to those who benefit most from this situation, which - believe me - also have, ladies and gentlemen, the benefits of this country's large energy companies. And, on the contrary, there is your model, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that when it is more necessary to tie the shoulder and more necessary is the unity you apply that of saving yourself who can. That, ladies and gentlemen, is to leave the citizens at the stand. You have already made it very clear in the previous crisis when you put the scissors on all the public services, when you delivered more than EUR 58 billion to the bank, when you reduced the lay-off, when you lowered the unemployment benefits or when you liquidated more than EUR 66 billion that the government of Rodríguez Zapatero had left in the pension shed. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have left millions of families in this country to their fate - to their bad luck, I would say. And, in addition, they continue to do so, because last week I remember that they brought here an amendment to the whole of the general budgets of the state that were more supportive and more social in history. You see the difference, don't you? Well, I suppose not you, but I assure you that the citizens of this country have, because they have lived and suffered during their government and continue to live and still suffer in those places where you govern. Ask if not the Galicians and the Galicians what their social policies are like there, where they have just taken out a number of Xunta's sheral presuppositions that leave more than 678 000 people in poverty abandoned; or where they do not mobilize a single euro more contributions to the Non-Fire Aid Service, despite the increase in people who need more of that help every day; or where they refuse to recover the Basic Card, which the Socialists have demanded from them over and over again; or explain to us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Galicians and the Galicians that this government increases by 24 % the transfers to Galicia to finance public services, but that you refuse to recover 976 medical places of primary care that you have eliminated with your cuts. [[Applauds]] That is their way of governing, that is their history and unfortunately it is our inheritance, an inheritance that fortunately this Government has been able to revoke with actions such as those envisaged in this decree that we are dealing with today, where protection measures are collected for potential agricultural workers affected by the drought or measures for public sector workers to see their payroll increased retroactively since January, since January! It is a royal decree that covers eighteen of the seventy-three measures of the Energy Security + Plan, measures that aim to protect consumers of gas and electricity, to improve the energy efficiency of homes and to boost self-consumption, that self-consumption that you have imposed to avoid unwanted interference with the benefits of your friends. This royal decree introduces the temporary flexibility of supply contracts, also includes the deduction of IRPF up to 2024 for those consumers who make energy efficiency improvements in their homes and provides for the creation of TUR 4, intended, as you know, for dwellings in buildings with central heating, which will benefit 1.7 million households and save more than 50% of the bill. By the way, Mr Requena, I would like to remind you that the reform of the CFPA is in the hearing until 7 November and, as you are well aware, also includes the extension of the thermal social bonus and the strengthening of the electrical social bonus. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of both the People's Party and the far right, tell me or, rather, tell the citizens of this country that they will not support this decree either. Nothing more and very graceful. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u338	Thank you very much, Mrs. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u339	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the Proposal for a Law for the Establishment of Energy Temporary Gravámenes and Credit Entities and Credit Financial Establishments. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u340	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still surprised that there is no other opposition group that has tabled an amendment to the whole of this genuine chaff that the Socialist and United Party brought to this House a few weeks ago, and I say chaff because it is a chaff and, moreover, for compelling reasons. The government announces one day, one morning when it rises, that it is going to impose a tax on the extraordinary benefit of electricity and banking. The Government announced this, but it is actually presented by the parliamentary groups. Why? Because they want to skip the formalities and all the mandatory reports of both the Council of State and the CNMC, etc. But they do not expect the opinion of the European Central Bank, which has actually been published just a few minutes ago and coincides with us exactly, it is a big deal. It conflicts directly with constitutional principles such as freedom of enterprise and the free market, and that makes the tax, as designed by the Government, dangerous, because it can and will be - as the sectors concerned have said - brought to the courts because they firmly believe that it will be declared unconstitutional, which can make it, in addition to being a burden, finally have an added cost for all Spanish citizens. But all this is not enough, but, moreover, they have not looked at and waited for the indications that the European Commission was waiting to give within the European Union itself. So, as I say, a doll. But there's more. In Citizens, in the Bureau and spokespersons of the Economics Commission, which is where this law will be dealt with, we have already stated our intention to bring in experts who will talk about this law and give their opinion as experts on the concept, design and format, the tax bases and the individuals or companies on which this tax falls. But what happened? They already told us that they were going to block the chances of those appearances. And why? Because they were going to take the colors out; the experts who came here were going to take the colors out, because you really are a government that is talking about in the European Union that it is always going to comply and it is always going to be aligned with the European Union and then comes here and gets a text out of the sleeve that there is nowhere to take it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u341	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u342	In times of crisis, all those who can, all of us, must hold our shoulders, all of us! And when I say everyone I mean talking about an income pact, and it is the government itself - the Socialist and United Party itself - who in the text of this tax - because it is called tax - talks about an income pact. We all have to participate in the income pact. The self-employed? Yeah. Public workers? Also. Pensioners? Also; those who charge the most, the higher pensions, of course they do. But also Members; in fact, Citizens refused to hand over new mobile phones in this House to all Members, as we do to the salary increase of Members, because at this time of crisis we all have to tie our shoulders, that is the income pact. And the first one who has to tie his shoulder is the Government, and they should take an example of the measures proposed by the Citizen: do not raise the salary, cut in superfluous expenses of ministries, which only increase the advisers every day. What you have to do is set an example, because you ask for an effort from all the Spaniards, from all our sectors, but then you don't set an example. So, do we believe in an income pact? Yeah, but not on a rent scam. How did we get to this text? It's pretty simple. The People's Group is going to be surprised. I really cannot understand how they did not want to table an amendment in its entirety, it is because they prefer the present Citizens, we are doing duties in this House. And what have we done? We have looked towards Europe, we have seen the indications they have given in the European Commission and we have brought them here in an alternative text. And we have also spoken to the sectors concerned. The sectors, with the text we are presenting, would agree. It is an amendment to the whole with an alternative text that contains several basic principles. In no way is this tax figure a property benefit, a tax, and that's how it comes in our alternative text. The amount of this tax to be paid cannot be calculated on the basis of income, it has to be calculated on the basis of profits, but not of profits, but of extraordinary profits, because this is what the European Union defines it and how the government actually announced it at the beginning, but in the end, neither profit nor extraordinary was left in anything, it was left in a huddle. It also has to be a temporary and extraordinary tax, directed at the whole energy sector, not at electricity, which already has its profits, but at the whole energy sector: oil, gas, coal, refining. But also to the banking sector, although we need to know, and we have already said in our previous intervention, that the banking sector is obliged to pass it on to the citizens, but at least it will be well designed. Finally, it has to be limited temporarily: only on the extraordinary benefits of exercise 2022. At least that is what we have set out in this text for the energy tax. Finally, I want to say that this tax must have a finalist character: the tax collected by this tax must go directly to strengthening the welfare state and helping families reduce what they pay for the bill of light. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I know that you do not finish recognising that this text is not up to the task, but that it is not up to it, and you may not recognize it today, voting yes to this amendment as a whole, that its text is not the right one. We know that they are going to do that, but we also know that when the amendments come to the joint text, whether with this text or with which the Government proposed, they are going to amend in the same way, in the same way and in the same terms as we have done in this amendment as a whole. Why? Because the European Commission has made it clear how a tax of these characteristics should be designed, which is as reflected in our alternative text, in the amendment as a whole. In fact, we hope that they will not be ashamed to introduce an amendment in this procedure to implement the tax on big fortunes, because we must legislate head-on and we must do it properly. It would be totally shameful to rethink an amendment to this tax to create another new tax. I see them capable because all they want is to skip the State Council reports and do it through the back door. There, I'm sure they won't find us. I tell you more, this tax, if we do not go hand in hand with the European Union and the rest of the Member States, is going to waste our businesses because it is going to make them less competitive. Therefore, they do not believe that what they have presented will in any way help our society at this time of crisis. Gentlemen of the PP, we're waiting for your answer. We don't know what they're going to do, lately it seems that Feijóo doesn't have very clear where to decide on taxes and tax deductions. It is clear that they are not clear about what they want to do. They said that if this text had what they indicate from Europe they would vote yes. Therefore, if you want to solve the rift that the Government has brought through its parliamentary groups, you will vote yes to our amendment as a whole. If you prefer not to vote for it, we will have to continue fighting from Citizens, alone, against this hunchback. We are bringing a solution because what the Government has brought here through its parliamentary groups is not adequate. We therefore believe that this tax, as the text is right now, will not stand up in the Constitutional Court. It's going to be very possible for them to take him to court and get lost, and I have to return him. We can even find ourselves in the situation of having to return interest to the companies to which we want to tax. And, of course, it is not going to stand in the European Union, which is what it is looking for is a design like the one we bring in this amendment text as a whole. In short, today we have the opportunity to solve a problem that has been generated and we are doing so by looking towards Europe, looking at the indications given to us by the European Commission and, above all, by involving all sectors in this income pact, which is vital right now. We have already seen that the issue of pensions is no different for you and that, as far as winning votes are concerned, you are capable of anything; that, as far as paying a favor to Bildu, who repeatedly asked for a tax only and exclusively on electrics, you are capable of anything. But that's not good; it's not all good. That is why we are bringing here today a text, a proposal that is reasonable, responsible, secure and coordinated with Europe. I therefore ask the groups in this House, in the Congress of Deputies, to vote in favour of our amendment to the whole because it is the solution to the chaff brought by the Government. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u343	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u344	Thank you, President. The temporary tax on banks and energy companies is a good initiative; in fact, it is an initiative that we have asked from this stand several times. It seems to us an important gesture today, that the Forbes list is published and we see how superrichs live together with frightening poverty risk rates. For this reason, we are going to vote against the amendment to the whole of the citizens, which has basically come to us with technical words and quoting the European Union many times that the benefits of banking and large oligopolies are not touched. Having made it clear that we do not share the Citizens' proposal at all, we want to make some reflections on the concept of an income pact. In fact, in the legislative text the concept of an income pact is used in certain parts, especially in the introduction, to explain the objective of the tax. Of course, an income pact that is effective in the Spanish state should have an impact, modify Spanish property structures. What are we talking about? Let's see how these taxes impact not only on the structure of the property, but also on the distribution of wealth in the Spanish state. The profits are taxed on the bank by 4.8%, which will be greatly increased by the rise in interest rates. The Santander Bank in 2021 won more than 8 billion euros, the Sabadell has increased by 23% this year compared to the year 2021 and the Caixa, who say that in what we carry of 2022 has lost 4,6%, brings of profits more than 28 billion euros. And energy is going to be recorded in just over 1% of the profits. We can talk, for example, about Endesa, which has increased by 23% only in what we have been up to 2022. It is easy to conclude that this tax is a pinch compared to the stratospheric benefits of these companies. But it is also important to explain which markets they operate in. The electricity market is an oligopoly, five companies control 80% of the production, distribution and marketing of energy, and these excessive benefits, obscene at a time of crisis, have to do with the political will for the electricity market to be rigged. And if we go to the banking market, we find the market with the highest concentration of property in Europe, with the risk of oligopoly, some experts also say. The last example, the merger of Bankia and CaixaBank, where the Minister of Economy played an important role. A lot of money in a few hands and very little control. And if we talk about banking, we have to talk about the bailout - 60 billion euros that never returned - and we have to talk about the Sareb, created to absorb toxic assets in 2012, with a debt in 2021 of about 34 billion euros and where the state becomes the main shareholder, with a wealth of more than 45,000 homes, whose management turns out to be transferred to the investment funds of Blackstone and KKR. And what do we talk about when we talk about the structure of property and big fortunes in Spain? We talk about fortunes made in the heat of Francoism - Torreal, Alcor, Meliá, Ferrosa, Banús, Omega Capital -; we talk about the transfer of peaceful powers in the Transition - more than forty ministers of the dictatorship become high executives -; we also talk about the concept of State enterprise - all the public money that is invested in private companies without asking for anything in return; for example, Indra, that the General Budgets of the State transfer billions of euros -. In 2022 alone, more than EUR 12 billion has been invested in ten private companies. Or we can talk about the European funds or the FROB, the manager, let's say, the bank bailout, which the government expects will have losses in 2022 and 2023. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u346	If the income pact does not touch the structure of the electricity market, if the income pact does not touch the structure of the banking market, if the income pact does not change the framework of the enterprise state and keeps wages below inflation, the income pact does not work; in fact, the Forbes list will remain intact. It'll be a pact so they don't change their rents. These taxes are fine, but the situation is limit; do a little more. Say what the European Central Bank, which is doing an incendiary management with the rise of the types, has to increase taxes, create a public bank and nationalise the energy market, if not the income pact will be a pact so that incomes do not change.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u347	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herría Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u348	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. If the proposer of the amendment to the whole goes up to this rostrum to say that it is an amendment to the whole in response to or in reaction to an initiative, that of the tax on banking and the electricity sector, which is intended to satisfy Bildu, she will take the view that the vote of Euskal Herria Bildu is a vote against its amendment to the whole. In any case, to clarify this, I will also tell you that the initiative is very short, that we want it to be much more ambitious. I told his spokesman once - and it made him very funny, because he has used it many times - that we are insatiable, and it is true that we will be insatiable for the distribution of wealth. Yes, it is true, we are going to be insatiable so that everything that has been stolen from the people through a State that has acted as a mere emissary or merely against the provider of the services needed by the banking and the electricity sector. So, we're going to vote against, it's nothing complicated to understand. In any case, I have taken the trouble to read the amendment as a whole and I will waste or take this time pointing out everything that that amendment says as a whole, because I think it is very definite. Of the whole text, the only issue we agree on is the one that points out in the explanatory statement that COVID generated an unprecedented economic crisis, and that is that we deny the evidence we do not like. This is true, but from there begins the line of disagreements. Then they talk about the Russian invasion of Ukraine; then they say that this has generated - as if they were meteorological phenomena or abstract entities not motivated by the action of the elites - an increase in energy prices, then an inflation and, finally, a rethinking of energy production, management and consumption, as if the increase in energy prices was not what causes inflation, and that inflation is a rethinking of energy production, management and consumption, and not only of energy consumption. But for you there is no cause-consequence or no cause-effect, but they are all almost atmospheric realities. There, when they see that the situation is serious, also in the explanatory statement they suggest that we must move solutions that relieve people's pockets. If you go to the RAE, relieving has a perfect synonym, which is to decrease, and if someone has diminished people's pockets have been banking and electric, then all you can do with them will seem little. But they're still going beyond that. Since the situation is dramatic, what they point out is that solutions must be sought and sacrifices made - this is literal - then - and this is also literal - to ask employers - okay - officials, workers, and pensioners. And there are short-circuit cables, because you presume the quality of your initiatives even if you vote very few people, but it turns out that the country that you have in your head is not the country in which you present yourself, because you propose to carry more behind the backs of the pensioners, when 60% of the pensioners charge less than 1000 euros - it will seem reasonable to you -; you also propose to charge more to the workers, when recent studies are telling us that one third of all people at risk of poverty in the Spanish State, and there are several million, are still working - one in three poor people has work and yet is poor - and they do so in one State, and these are data from the National Institute of Statistics of the year 2021, where there are 13 200 000 people at risk of poverty or situation. Well, that doesn't seem like a very reasonable measure. [[Rumors]] In addition, they say that this is done - and this is also literal - with the aim of equitably sharing the cost of the crisis. To you this does not accompany neither the progressiveness nor the redistribution of wealth... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u349	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Matute. [[Pause]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u350	There is no point in talking about equitable distribution if there is no talk of redistribution or no talk of progressiveness. It cannot be that everyone makes the same effort, regardless of what place everyone has in society and what effort we are asking of them. Of course, I understand that Garamendi does not like to be talked about rich and poor, but we are in a society that from the COVID to now has been to accumulate more money in the hands of the rich and to impoverish more people, moving from relative stability to a growing risk in their lives of falling into poverty, which has to lead us to conclude that with their measures the rich will become richer and the poor will become poorer. That is why what you are proposing, and here I am referring to the operative part, is a huge trap, and I say so to you, without caps. You pose a trap to embellish your will to inaction with electrics and banking. Because you have two conditions for the beginning of this tax: the first is that 75% of the turnover is linked to oil, gas, coal or refined. That allows them nothing that 25% is 26%, as they are exempt. But the second trap is even thicker. You are talking about net profits in the initiative, and what you propose is that the profits only start to penalise or to be taxed from 20%; therefore, the first 20% of net profits would be exempt and would start from the next 20% where it would start to be recorded, and always doing a reading of the previous three years, in this case I understand that it is the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, since they suggest that it start to apply on 1 January 2023. I could talk about many companies, Iberdrola, Endesa, Naturgy, Repsol, Cepsa; or banks, Bank Santander, Bank Bilbao Biscay Argentaria, etc., but I'm going to take only one as an example, Iberdrola. In 2020 Iberdrola won 3610 million euros of net profit. In 2021, 3885. Mr Galán announced that EUR 4200 million will be around this year. I mean, they go from 3610 to 4200. So, if we apply 20% to them, it turns out that Iberdrola about what is going to be recorded is practically over zero, and you think that's reasonable. This same exercise I have done with the banks, for example, with the Banco de Santander, pointing out the benefits they are going to have and those that they had in the year 2020, 5081 million euros, as well as in 2021, 5849 million euros. They are now proposing that they will have around EUR 8 billion, or that is what some media say. It should not be forgotten that the five large Spanish parent banks had 20 billion euros in profit during the year 2021. It's over now. You also talk about increasing interest rates and returning to normality. What is normal, unfortunately, is that the evictions, evictions like the one that has already announced Azora, a vulture background, will grow in Gros, a neighborhood of Donostia, for this very week. I am not a believer, but it would be good for the believers, who in this House know that there are many, to recover those texts from the old Christians who said that banking practice is usury when you get some money from a commodity loan. I no longer get involved in whether they have to go to purgatory or not, because, since I'm not a believer, I don't think there is either, but they think that what is being done in banking terms is usury, I think it's reasonable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Please remain silent in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u352	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing the amendment to the totality presented by the Citizens' Group to the charges on large energy companies and large financial institutions, because they are the two sectors that are benefiting most from the current economic situation, and whose consideration was accepted by this House. I think we need to remember a number of things, and my group has already said this: we cannot avoid in this context that the energy companies are obtaining extraordinary benefits that they did not expect and that are actually obtained by a certain juncture, which is nothing other than the energy shock that we are experiencing. This has also been corroborated by the CNMC. These margins, in addition, end up being transferred to families and businesses, whose situation is complicated so that they can cope with their day-to-day lives. Mrs Vehi told us today about an income pact, but the reality is that it does not exist. We are therefore faced with charges that are supported by Europe. First, in March, when it said that Member States could consider temporary tax measures on the fallen benefits of the sky and, exceptionally, take part of those returns to distribute them among consumers, and now, more recently in the case of energy, with a clear approach to this as set out in Council Regulation 2022/1854 of 6 October 2022 on emergency intervention to deal with high energy prices, in which it regulates how this tax should be. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that there are a number of European countries - the United States is already announcing it - which have already begun to adapt their tax systems to this new reality in which there are extraordinary gains in different sectors, specifically in the field of energy. Some countries are also applying taxes to banks. In my group - and I have already said this - we are not going to question the substance of both charges, they are charges well received by society and that, moreover, we all perceive as fair, because we believe that it is necessary to divide economic efforts in order to respond to the consequences of war, so that the efforts do not fall solely on citizens, let alone on the most vulnerable groups, because the crises affect us all but not all and we all suffer them equally. They are charges that seek to help families and SMEs, who really need it, and that will help to alleviate the cost they are suffering, to finance relief in solidarity and to finance public policies to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine. Having said that, when we discussed the Government's proposal, we first questioned the way in which this benefit was developed and also certain technical problems which we said should be solved, where appropriate, in the parliamentary procedure for legal certainty, to try to ensure that this type of measure ends up being annulled by the courts and can lead to major financial returns which, ultimately, could end up paying the society, the citizenship and the economic fabric that we seek to protect, and for the Government's proposal to be aligned at the time with what was established by Europe, simply because this tax was adopted earlier here. In this sense, the amendment to the whole presented by Citizens seeks to replace that proposed law promoted by PSOE and Unidad Podemos and whose consideration, as I have said, was endorsed by this House. This proposal, in fact, is more similar to the one proposed by Europe to draw extraordinary energy benefits and replicates the same approach to banking, but leaves electricians out on the grounds that they are already taxed by the lower income from the gas surcharge and the gas cap, which also includes Europe in its regulation. However, the European regulation makes it possible to maintain or introduce measures that further limit the market revenue of electricity producers. This proposal, unlike that of the Government, imposes extraordinary benefits which exceed by 20% the average obtained in the previous three years, but in a single year rather than two years, and ultimately by limiting their collection to consumer support measures, energy-dependent industries or subject to investment in renewables, efficiency and decarbonisation, as well as to measures to reduce consumption. This is something that is establishing Europe. In the case of the tax on credit institutions, it replicates that established for energy and suggests that the collection should be aimed at supporting bank debtors and a deduction in the IRPF in order to deduct up to EUR 400 from the payment of interest on variable-rate mortgages on habitual housing. There are two proposals, that of the Government and that which today presents Citizens, very different and which, however, we both disagree with. Indeed, you are talking about extraordinary profits, which are not about turnover, and we can share this because in this way it can be possible to assess the economic activity of companies, but not so much in the formula they propose regarding the reference period, which is more narrow than the European one and which does not take into account the existence of regulated or liberalised activities, among others. [[The Lord]] On the other hand, as far as the tax on credit institutions is concerned, the fact is that they also replicate what is said for energy, not being limited by revenue and applying to all banking institutions - in what we might perhaps agree -. However, as I have said, we are being offered a finalist collection to help bank debtors and a deduction in the IRPF of up to EUR 400 from the payment of interest on variable mortgages on habitual housing, a measure that was already rejected in this House because it did not take into account the level of income of families, because it benefited mainly those variable mortgages of the latest constitution - in which it is paid more for interest rates than capital - because it did not help those debtors who have agreed on a fixed rate may also have difficulty paying because of the rise in energy prices, food, unemployment, etc., and because the Government is also working in this direction with banking entities to establish those measures that are more appropriate. In short, they bring us an alternative to the one proposed by the Government, this time in the form of taxes, which we share, but with a shade, and which is more similar to that established by Europe, but which, in our view, must also be modified or improved. Moreover, here is the hue as to the form proposed as taxes, since it raises some charges also without contemplating - I am not surprised - the existence of the Basque and Navarra foral estates, which, as I said, I am not surprised even though you say respect the concert, that not the quota, because it is the concert and the Navarro agreement that precisely establish that when a reform of the tax legal order of the State takes place, both administrations will proceed to the relevant adaptation of the economic concert. At least in this sense, of course, it gives us greater confidence to know that with the Socialist Party and the United States we can come to an agreement on the defence of the Basque concert and the Navarro convention, which for us is an insurmountable line, which in this sense we do not have with your group. As I have commented, our group believes that economic efforts need to be shared in order to respond to the economic consequences of the energy crisis, so that efforts do not fall solely on citizens, let alone on vulnerable groups, through this mandatory, temporary and extraordinary contribution. There is already a proposal on this, and we will therefore be looking at it in order to put forward amendments, as regards design and its articulation, with measure. In our view, it would be desirable if it were aligned with the European regulation to ensure its compatibility and legality, but it is also true that Europe seems to relax this obligation by allowing measures enacted for similar or equivalent purposes to help households and businesses at high prices and, in turn, to ensure the competitiveness of businesses and the non-delaying of investments aimed at achieving energy autonomy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u353	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u354	Thank you, Mr. President. I am not going to go into depth with the Citizens' amendment because it seems clear that its intention is to render this tribute inoperative. It seems that the most liberal liberals of all liberals are more concerned about Botín or'by Sánchez Galán than about the workers or those who have difficulty reaching the end of the month. And they still say the affected would agree. Of course, they won't be. With regard to the proposal - indeed, we will have an opportunity to debate and to make amendments - I would also like to point out some issues. It also seems obvious that the Government acts only when there is no other remedy, when there is a great deal of social pressure. This was not possible until it was possible, exactly the same as other measures. Even so, they are extremely generous, to put it mildly, with these thresholds of 1 billion for energy, of 800 million for banking and with a temporary forecast of two years, which we logically amend to make it permanent. All right, it doesn't solve the underlying problem of a bank concentration that has been growing in recent years and an electric oligopoly that keeps making money.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u355	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u356	Before yesterday Iberdrola announces a bonus of 200 million to its managers for the good results...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u357	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u358	Thank you very much, President. Here, every afternoon we Members and Members have to take sides and choose a team, and some have it very clearly. There are some who inevitably choose the Iberdrola team, which will distribute a bonus of 200 million; a bonus of 200 million! Mr Galán, who called the citizens who paid the regulated fee fools, will take 19 million. In addition to that Iberdrola hid the page that allows to pass to the regulated rate of the gas. For there are some who choose this team, or that of the big bank, that only in these nine months has won 16 billion; 7300, the Santander, only in nine months. And there are others that we always, inevitably, choose the equipment of the families, the ordinary people, the workers and the self-employed, because they are the equipment that has the most expensive mortgages, the most expensive light and gas receipts, and the inflation that is eaten by wages, pensions or their income. Let's see, the benefits of banking and the benefits of electrics, where do they come from? Well, little clothes, workers' clothes, ordinary people's clothes. So we have to be on one side or the other. Resources are needed to be able to help; and these resources are only obtained from the taxes and, above all, from the taxes they most have. Therefore, if you have to choose, VOX and the PP already did so in their day, they chose the team of Mr Galán, of the powerful, of the electrics, of the bank, although they are now disguised as a thousand excuses. And then, we're the others, the ones who decided to bet on the team of normal and ordinary people. Therefore, if we have to choose a team and if we have to take sides, we are very clear, we will vote against this Citizens' amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u359	Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u360	Thank you, President. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell the spokesman for Citizens that I am not going to go up here to defend the kindness and technical rigour of the proposal for a law tabled by the United Possos and the Socialist Party, because you will see, when we table the amendments, that we have reasonable doubts about many aspects. One thing is that, in a time of crisis, there are certain companies from certain sectors that are obtaining extraordinary benefits and they can be asked for a special contribution - that the proposers have focused on two very specific sectors, although there would probably be some more, but these are the ones that are popularly most accepted as soon as they are presented as a cashier - and another thing is that their proposal, which is going to bounce from the original proposal, improves some aspects, that I have no doubt, but that it makes others worse, neither do I have any doubt. We are not going to support your amendment to the whole with alternative text, because, if you have to work with one, we almost prefer to work with the original, which is the one I think has a stronger majority and therefore from our pragmatic position, and not sharing some aspects of the original proposal - which I even believe the same proponents are going to self-amend in some substantial aspects of the project - I am going to do an act of faith with the proponents and their auto-amendments. And he also announced that, despite his own amendments, we are going to present our own. Today we have heard of the report by the European Central Bank, where some clues are given, and I will point out others. If a tax or a non-tax property contribution is to be applied to companies in a given sector, all or all of them must be applied for. Because this of fixing a quantity according to the turnover of certain companies is somewhat arbitrary, as pointed out in the same report. Even some of you will also have a self-justification problem because, as a percentage of capital or as a percentage of turnover, some of these companies have had a much greater benefit than those that have had a higher turnover. In any case, we are not going to support the amendment to the whole with alternative text of Citizens and we are going to work to present pragmatic amendments, so that they can be voted by the proponents...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u361	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u362	...to substantially improve your project. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u363	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u364	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We are debating the amendment to the whole of the tax on energy and credit institutions of Citizens, and again - we are already used to it - Citizens have been defending oligopoly and businesses of all time; the big companies that, in this state, always win, govern who rules. We believe that it is very necessary, at the very difficult time in which we live, this tax on these companies that have had fallen profits from heaven, so it seems to us that they have to contribute more. Yesterday we knew, for example, that Iberdrola will pay a bonus of 200 million euros to its managers for the great results they have achieved. It is therefore clear that, at this point in time, many families in this country are having a very bad time, with inflation out of hand, with the shopping basket going up week after week, with mortgages increasing their monthly receipt, those who have the most have to contribute more. We have always defended a different way out of this crisis - a crisis caused by the war in Ukraine and the COVID-19 - than from the 2008 crisis, where the austerity policies exercised by the PP and its various partners brought more recession, more poverty, more inequality and more suffering to the families of this country. Let us see how the European Commission's indications fit in during the presentation of this law. In any case, we - we have said this many times - are going to table amendments so that this tax, which the Government is setting aside as a temporary one, is permanent. Let us hope that we can find other parliamentary groups to support our proposal. In short - and I am finishing - the Republican Left will never, never, ever find it defending the companies of the Bernabéu stage; on the contrary, they will always find us supporting the popular and working classes of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u365	Thank you. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u366	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. Mrs Martínez - and I see it here, good afternoon to you too - the first thing I would like to say is that with this initiative you are not without being perfectly consistent with the vote against you during the consideration of this bill. That is to say, it seems entirely reasonable to me that if a group has a proposal that is substantially different from that of another group in relation to a particular subject, the first one is submitting an amendment to the whole substitution because this is not, against, I am opposed to, and nothing else seems to me to be welcome. I say this, above all, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, who might well have bothered to exercise a somewhat more proactive opposition, but that means curing, it means working, it means striving, and before that, they do not pass by. At least the Citizens' Group has done its duties, so today we can know the details of the alternative that it proposes and contrast them with the initial proposal, which is what we are and what I will devote myself to in the next few minutes. Before that, allow me to comment in context. At a time when inflation is punctuating the purchasing capacity of many families, while endangering the viability of a multitude of businesses, there are certain oligopolies in some sectors that are taking it raw. For example, the International Energy Agency estimates the excessive benefits of the energy sector in Europe at around EUR 200,000 million; in Spain, IBEX's four majors have announced a record profit of EUR 9 billion for the year 2021, as has already been said. If we go to the banking sector, the scenario is frankly similar. According to the CNMV, the five groups in the sector that are part of the IBEX achieved almost 20 billion profits in 2021. This context is so brazen, so brazen that if a few months ago the tax we are discussing today was labeled Bolivarian or Communist, today no one here questions the need for these large corporations to contribute more, much more, than they have been contributing to date. We can also say that from the consideration of this PL until today new data and actions have been known that do not but add even more urgency to which we have already dragged. For example, last Thursday the European Central Bank announced a new rise in rates, which gives continuity to the frantic escalation that started a few months ago, although it is known that it will not solve the energy problem that Europe is currently experiencing. What will surely leave this escalation is a few hundred thousand families on the verge of bankruptcy, whose volume will be in direct proportion to that of the colossal profits that the banking sector will be pocketing, in fact, already leaving it. In these days we have also known the results account of the first nine months of the year of the companies of IBEX. Guess what the companies in these two sectors are like. Indeed, very well stopped. I say well standing if you are a shareholder, because if you are a common and common citizen, then you will know that these extraordinary gains come directly out of your pocket and are therefore at the expense of your well-being. Once we have moved from a leftist approach to an apothectic truth, we are all clear here, at last, that we must stop the indiscriminate benefit of certain oligopolies. We then discuss the parameters of its correct implementation. The proposing group, Citizens, mainly discusses how to calculate the tax base. You would like to determine it from a more or less arbitrary definition of the term extraordinary profits and not on turnover, as it appears in the original proposal. I say arbitrary because you call it extraordinary everything that exceeds 20% of the average profits recorded in the previous three years. I ask you, Mrs. Martinez: why not 15 or 25? why not four or five years instead of three? It's completely arbitrary. Its argument is based on the agreement adopted by the Energy Ministers of the European Union to establish a solidarity, compulsory and temporary contribution on the benefits of companies active in the crude oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors. Indeed, this agreement laid down the basis for the regulation adopted days later which, in your view, would not be in line with the proposal. What is happening, Mrs Martínez, is that you forget that this same agreement states that 'the Member States - and I quote here literally - can maintain national measures which are equivalent to the solidarity levy provided that they are compatible with the objectives of the Regulation and generate at least comparable revenue', an agreement which, by the way, is set out in Article 14 of the same Regulation, which you use as an argument. On the other hand, if we incorporate in the calculation of the taxable base the cost structure, as you propose, we would be opening the door to that tax engineering that has done so much damage to the Spanish public finances in general and the collection of corporation tax in particular. In other words, we would have to open an infinite debate and I fear that very little fertile on what exemptions are acceptable and in what amount, as well as having to deal with contradictory situations. For example, last week CaixaBank published the results of the first nine months of the year, which yield a profit of about 24 billion euros. This amount represents 49 % less than that obtained in the same period last year, but only because in 2021 the institution achieved extraordinary results due to Bankia's absorption. How do we deal with these kinds of situations, Mrs. Martinez? Our group faced the design and negotiation of this new tax rule with the stated objective of compensating for the extraordinary social expenditure, which it has owed and which it must still sustain the State to alleviate the consequences of this new crisis, through an additional collection on those companies that have objectively benefited from a situation that is attentive to and threatening the rest. In order to reach a viable agreement with our partner, we assume that this will be around EUR 3500 million in each year of application of this tax, a figure which, as I believe, Mr Rego has already said, is far below the extraordinary expenditure already assumed. We must therefore acknowledge that this compensation will only be partial because this figure is not by far close to the pre-bends that these two sectors have received from the State in the past few years. In this respect, I would just like to point out that, if an additional collection in the banking sector of around EUR 3 billion in two years were actually to be achieved, it would still take another 20 years of equivalent payments for the sector to return everything it owes us to the Spanish and the Spanish. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the proposal that you are putting forward would make this compensation even more rachytic and, therefore, for my group is simply unabated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u367	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u368	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We live in the times of euphemism. We call voluntary termination of pregnancy to abortion or sex reassignment surgery to body mutilation. It could therefore not be that we were different in the tax field. Thus, for example, the text for which Citizens present today an amendment to the whole and which presents the two groups defending the Government tells us about a non-taxary public property benefit, that is, a tax. [[Applauds]] It is a tax for banking and energy companies, which are two economic activities, as you know, very unpopular for two reasons: one, because they are necessary and no one complains about the price of the unnecessary, complains about the price of the necessary; and two, for the strong mating they have with political power. [[Applauds]] That is why they are so unpopular, but in sin these two activities carry penance: for their continued support of the 2030 Agenda without respect neither its shareholders nor its customers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u369	Wait a minute, Mr. Manso. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u370	But we are better at the text of the proposal than that of the amendment, which is correct in many cases. This is about extraordinary benefits. You see that the simple increase in income is going to generate in these two sectors, logically, a higher tax share; that is, the growth of profits is already taxed. But let's go further. By the very structure of the profit and loss accounts, where fixed costs are deductible, the increase in income or the financial margin in the bank will generate a more than proportional increase in results. So, it's already recorded. In any case, all of this, as the Lady of Citizens has rightly said - I bring here, looking at my notes - is a real tax dip. The situation can be given that in the years 2023 and 2024 the results of the sectors concerned fell; however, they would pay for the new tax, because the new tax does not turn on the results, it turns on the revenues. I'm telling Mrs. Vehi to confuse profits with income. No, no, no. On the other hand, they seem to be very low taxes. They say: 1.2 or 4.8. Hey, one-case income and one-case financial margin. This is equivalent to increasing the tax rate by 12 percentage points. In other words, a 20% increase in the profits of banking and energy institutions would be fully absorbed by the new tax. You talk about extraordinary benefits, but no one has bothered to define it. In any case, Citizens gives us a chance. The extraordinary benefit in ordinary activities does not exist if you do not review the international financial reporting standards, which do not speak of extraordinary benefit. [[Applauds]] In any case, there are non-recurring results due to disinvestment, but that is not what they charge. They're talking about the temporality of the tax. We were afraid of him. Mr Rego and Mr Margall have asked that it be more years, that it be permanent. We already have experience - it was told to our spokesman a few days ago - with the income tax that the Americans put in the late 19th or ourselves, which we carry with the property tax, which is extraordinary also, since the beginning of the transition. But you only tax the financial margins of the bank and the increase in revenues of activities in Spain. What do you expect me to generate this? Logically, it will generate a lack of investment in Spain, since the activities in Spain become much less interesting for the investor. Lack of investment in energy can be of concern. They are that the increase in costs does not move to the companies. I don't know how they intend to do it. First, it is to put in the National Securities Market Commission and the Bank of Spain some functions that are inappropriate to them, especially in a system of price freedom, but it is that you make it obvious that any increase in costs is transferred through the vericouetos of the price system to you do not know who. Therefore, if you say that you cannot transfer it to the customers, you better transfer it to the workers, you leave them in a worse situation in your collective bargaining. [[Applauds]] Do you intend to set all the ad hoc prices that banks and electrics purchase in all their inputs? I don't recommend it. It would be the solution. Since they can't transfer it to the customers and they won't want it to be transferred to the workers, they'll have to fix everything. This is nothing more than an interventionist measure that will create more problems than the ones it seeks to solve. At five and ten o'clock this afternoon we received the report from the European Central Bank, which you, the Socialist Party, wanted it not to arrive. The European Central Bank report says some very interesting things about this tax. First, it does not take into account the whole economic cycle; that is, it does not take into account that the increase in rates will lead to an increase in late payment. On the other hand, it says that it is not proportional to the entity's profitability. Which I explained to you before, that the first 20 growth points you eat enteritos. It does not reflect the costs - discussed today - as required by the European Banking Authority's guidelines. Finally, there is much doubt on the part of the European Central Bank as to what the Bank of Spain is doing about price control. The Governor of the Banco de España in the Committee on Budgets has already told us. In fact, rate increases have cost you at the close of the first half of this year EUR 5 billion to the bank, because you are dedicated to looking at the profit and loss account, but you never monitor the state of changes in the net worth. In any case, you know that we have not come here to discuss this, whether or not we need to require some taxpayers to make an additional effort at this time of economic crisis caused by the European Union's energy and monetary policies, aggravated in the Spanish case by the inefficiency of this government. You've come to something else. You have come to have a seclusion of the opposition, as many times, dividing the nation. Today you have touched two friends of yours - banking and electrics - and you will dictate that it is the enemy of the people who support you, after having supported you so many times and so much on them.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u371	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u372	As the great Nicholas Gómez Dávila said, sponsoring the poor has always been the safest way to get rich in politics. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u373	Thank you. Mr Elorriaga Pisarik has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u374	Thank you very much, President. There is no doubt that to speak of this amendment of alternative text we must first of all speak of the proposal for a law which it brings to the fore. On this proposal for a law, it must be said quite clearly that it involves a triple fraud. [[The lady]] A legislative fraud, since, as a proposal for a law and as a matter of urgency, what has been repeatedly recognized as a draft prepared within the Government, all internal controls of legality have been circumvented and mandatory procedures for consultation and public information have been omitted. Moreover, since this is a rule partially enacted in implementation of a Community regulation, the Council of State's mandatory opinion has been circumvented. It is a fraud in the parliamentary procedure, not because what is a bill is being proposed, but because it is being debated in a committee which does not belong to it, in the Economic Committee rather than in the Finance Committee. There is no justification for why this has been so. In addition, it has been announced - and we all know it now - that in a subsequent procedure, the big fortune tax will be introduced as an amendment, as well as an important limitation in corporate tax on loss compensation. The majority are going through a specific breakdown of the legislative procedure by circumventing prescriptive opinions, by unwarrantedly altering the competence to process them, by precipitating deadlines, by ignoring Community law and by seeking the establishment of new tax figures through a clear amendment to a repeated case law of the Constitutional Court. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u375	Mr. Elorriaga, forgive me for interrupting you. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Don't stand in the hallways, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u376	Thank you, President. Alongside this fraud to the legislative and parliamentary procedure, this project contains above all a great political fraud, because with populist tricks, with this alleged confrontation between the poor and the rich, what is intended to hide is what is really happening with the public revenues in Spain. That reality is that the Government began to raise taxes on the very day of its arrival, without a pandemic and without war, because that is what is in the coalition agreement and because for the left to raise taxes, the unlimited increase in the weight of the State is a central part of its ideology. [[Applauds]] As the Spanish become poorer day by day, seeing their purchasing capacity diminish, tax revenues continue to grow. And that brutal increase in the fiscal pressure that all Spaniards are suffering does not come, as you claim, from the rich and powerful; it comes from the wage earners, who contribute 80% of the tax bases of the IRPF and who bear in a very main way all the taxation on consumption. [[Applauds]] As citizens will also bear the tax burden arising from these new tax figures, as indicated, among other things, in the opinion we have received today from the European Central Bank, which recalls the obligation of banks to pass on all the costs of their business to their customers. Progressiveists, you are the only European government unable to return gross domestic product to pre-pandemic levels and while the per capita income of the Spaniards is frozen, and even diminishes, the fiscal pressure continues to grow: from 35.4 % that there was when you reached the government to 39 % of GDP in 2022, and with the aspiration to reach 41 % of GDP in 2023. You boast that we do not reach the European average, but always forget to make the right comparisons. Central European Union countries with tax pressures almost identical to ours have completely different per capita incomes. To give you three examples: Spain has around EUR 24 000 per capita income. The Netherlands has 43 000. It's approaching double and they have the same fiscal pressure as we do. Germany has 50,000, more than double, and it has almost the same fiscal pressure as us. Luxembourg has EUR 110000 per capita income and has less tax pressure than we do. Obviously, with different levels of individual income, you cannot have equivalent tax pressures, but that you ignore over and over again. [[Applauds]] This proposal also violates the principle of legal certainty, as it regulates what is clearly imposed as a property benefit. This outrage is so evident that they have been forced to agree with their parliamentary allies, that they will include these new figures in the economic concert and in the Navarro convention, something that is historically consolidated for - and only for - the tributes. I mean, these figures are no tribute to anyone, except for the convention for the economic concert. As will also agree - I imagine, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party - the tax on the great fortunes, because if it is not, we will have discovered a new way of harmonizing the Basque concert and the political convention. They violate the principle of legal certainty when they intend to impose new taxes on taxable acts already taxed by State taxes. That is, this is a completely arbitrary procedure in all its aspects. The chosen sectors are arbitrary, which are two and it is not known why they are not others who have also been able to have extraordinary benefits; it is arbitrary the magnitude chosen for the calculation and in general it is arbitrary the whole procedure followed. To all of these, the alternative text presented by Citizens cannot give a solution, and it obviously does not. The party's spokesman, Mrs Martínez, has a peculiar form in which to ask for the favourable vote of my group, and of course, given her argument, we are not going to give it to her. It may be that the text is a little less bad than the one that brings us this debate, but it goes into open contradiction, that is, you argue that you want to approach European regulation, which could be true in the tax on energy companies; however, you consecrate with your proposal the claim to subject the bank to a tax, which the European Central Bank has told us today that it should not be. We cannot fix what is wrong and for that reason we will not support the amendment. In any case, our group, whatever the outcome of the vote, will ask that before the deadline for amendments is closed, there will be hearings with experts and sectors concerned to fill all the missed procedures, and above all it will ask for a legal opinion, absolutely inexcusable, to assess the adequacy of this proposal to Council Regulation 1854 and in general to the whole Community legal system, which we really have more than doubts about. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u377	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorriaga. Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u378	President, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought we were going to have a more serious debate on taxation today, but the truth is that, seeing Mr Feijóo's proposals on taxation, it is difficult. Tell him, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the tax deduction for housing was removed by Mariano Rajoy, in breach of his electoral programme. [[Applauds]] Mr Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is a permanent bubble. And you know what? For political fraud, the indecent amnesty they made to the defrauders in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Let us go to the bill and to the amendment to the whole that citizens bring us today, which Plenary after Plenary, ladies and gentlemen, do not give up proving how irrelevant they can become in Spanish politics. In four years, they have gone from being the possible political centre to being an instrument at the service of the most radical interests of this country. See if they are, that even the People's Party has not dared to table an amendment to the whole of it today. It seems a lie that we still have to explain the fundamental reasons for certain measures being taken by this Government in the face of a war like that of Ukraine. In democracy, the debate, the contrast of ideas in matters of this importance for the moment in which they take place should count on the unanimity of all the representatives we are here today. Unanimity, ladies and gentlemen, not because the government of Pedro Sánchez says so, not because it has the backing of the European Union or because it is proposed by international bodies such as the IMF or the OECD or even because the European Central Bank does not oppose it, unanimity because these temporary taxes make a country more just and more egalitarian where the usual ones, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, of the People's Party and of VOX, do not pay the exit from the crisis. But you know what? The worst part of this debate is not that they want to protect the interests of a few, the worst part is that they are against a just and proportionate exit to this crisis. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because what we are talking about here today is a temporary tax on extraordinary profits during this crisis. What we want is for large financial institutions and large energy companies in this country to contribute to the collective effort we are making by all Spaniards in a context of energy crisis, price rise and unprecedented interest rate increases, which makes it imperative that we protect families and small and medium-sized enterprises. What we are asking is that the four major energy companies, which added more than EUR 14 billion in profits in 2021 and which in this 2022 are breaking historical records, bring some of those benefits to the whole country. What we want is for the six large Spanish banks, which together in the first nine months of this year 2022 received more than 16 billion profits, 23% more than in 2021, to bring some of those benefits to the whole of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about billions of euros of extraordinary profits in the midst of a global crisis. And do you really believe that these entities cannot make an effort to solidarity with people? That they can't help those who have their payrolls and pensions in their banks to help them? Or can we not help those who spend daily on light, gas or filling gas tanks with all those revenues that go directly to the benefits of their results account? Can you really come out today to this rostrum of the Congress of Deputies to tell the Spaniards that instead of defending their interests you are going to stand on the side of a few, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of Citizens and of VOX? [[Applauds]] Really, ladies and gentlemen? We only ask them to be supportive of the fate and future of millions of Spaniards, to put themselves for a moment in the skin of the citizenry, to take care of the situation of many people who today are looking once again at this Congress of Deputies, to stop generating fear and uncertainty and to help build hope. Do you know what's wrong with you, ladies and gentlemen? That they are opposed to a fair exit because this fair exit that the Spanish Government is taking on puts them in front of the mirror of its management, because it shows that, in the face of the unjust exit that you gave in the previous financial crisis, when you ruled, devoting resources to banking while leaving millions of Spaniards abandoned, we have shown that there are alternatives; because in the face of your cuts and massive tax increases, this government has given an example of fair and functioning policies. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is the fastest growing country in the European Union. We are the second country with the least inflation in the euro area and in days like today we also know that unemployment continues to decrease and employment continues to increase, with the best of October in the history of Spain, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of Citizens and of VOX. [[Applauds]] That's what really bothers you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these temporary taxes will allow us to raise €3.5 billion. You know for what? To help those who need it most. With these taxes we don't get fed up, as you like to say. With these taxes what we do is help the social majority to continue giving scholarships to people, to continue building Spain's equality, to strengthen our dependence, our health and our education, to raise pensions, to improve the interprofessional minimum wage or to continue to bet on the minimum living income. To all these policies this Government devotes the resources that we are obtaining. These taxes also go to many of the issues that you have not done for a long time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, such as paying the debt of a hospital such as Cantabria, Valdecilla, or for the arrival of high speed in Granada or Extremadura or to improve the support of the electrointensive industries. [[Protests.-Applause.]] For this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! You follow yours, the usual, to this noise that sometimes deafens, but which reaches the social majority of this country. We will continue to govern with policies to transform and help those who need it most. Go on, go on, we'll go on here. Thank you. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u379	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that there are some items on the agenda. We now turn to the point concerning the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/000099 to 110/000107. Several groups have already informed the Bureau of their wish to speak on these opinions. The opinions, as always, will be put to the vote with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. As agreed at the Board of Spokesmen, I would remind you that a three-minute shift is being opened for the parliamentary groups to set their position and that shift must be exercised from the seat. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u381	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on one of the agreements that is being voted on here today, which is the one signed between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Azerbaijani regime in relation to classified information and its exchange and protection. First of all, in Euskal Herria Bildu we believe that this agreement is a misconception, and more at this moment. It must be borne in mind that Azerbaijan is an aggressor regime. Last September he attacked the Republic of Armenia unilaterally. It conquered and occupied 130 square kilometres of the territory of the Republic of Armenia and executed two hundred Armenian soldiers and civilians, something similar to what we saw in the autumn of 2020 with the aggression on the territory of Nagorny Karabakh, Republic of Artsaj, which killed 5,000 people. After that conflict and after the September aggression, we have seen on social networks terrible images of barbarism, with mutilation, summary executions and torture of Armenian citizens. It is a nonsense to sign such an agreement with a State that affects such atrocities. Secondly, Azerbaijan is a corrupt regime. We must not forget the Council of Europe's report by directly accusing that regime of having bought wills from different members of the Council of Europe and from national parliaments of the European Union - by the way, ex-members of these General Courts too - by accusing them of having been bribed and bought by that corrupt regime which is trying to improve its international image on the basis of purchasing political wills. And thirdly, we are talking about a repressive regime, a regime plagued with political prisoners, a regime that imprisons its opponents, journalists and human rights activists. In the human rights index of The Economist magazine, which is so named in this House, that State is listed in the number 141 of 167 States. Similarly, Reporters Without Borders highlights that country in position 163, out of 180 countries, in freedom of expression. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a nonsense to sign such an agreement with a regime that is a corrupt, aggressor and repressive tyranny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u383	Very brief mind, because I don't want some of your lordships to miss the plane. It is not so much the content of the treaty with Azerbaijan to which the previous speaker has referred, which deals with the ways in which classified information is handled - it is understood that it is going to be used normally and, of course, with all the countries, which can also be strategic because of its location, such agreements must be made - but at the time when they are produced. I already know that it has been working for a long time, but it cannot be understood that this time is being chosen to ratify the agreement since there has been an aggression, which seems to continue sporadically. We must force Azerbaijan to come up with a solution within the international community. Therefore, it is not so much the content, but the moment, and we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Martínez Granados had asked for the floor from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Denials]] Thank you very much. Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u385	Thank you, President. I also ask for the floor for the agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan for the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, an agreement that shows that transparency for this Government does indeed have some limits, those limits that are self-defined to defend their own interests and the interests of the Azerbaijani kingdom, which are far away, far from the defence of human rights and peace. While we see how this Government is silent in the face of Azerbaijani aggression against the Armenian people in Nagorny Karabakh, breaking the ceasefire; while we see how it is silent in the face of the detention of Armenian prisoners in Azerbaijan, prisoners who are even being tortured; while we see how this Government has not yet recognized anything as obvious, something as logical, something as barbaric as the Armenian genocide, we find agreements like this, classified information agreements. See the transparency of this Government, see the allies of this Government. For you, for the government of the PSOE and the United We can, Erdogan's great ally is the one who marks with those who join. Change this agreement, please. We will, of course, vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u386	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. Mr Pisarello Prados has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comune.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u387	Thank you, President. It does not seem casual that the day we ratify a security agreement with Colombia, President Petro's government insists on sending a clear message to the world: that there will be no national or international security if there is no peace, if the weapons do not shut up and if that peace is not based on greater social and environmental justice. That is what he said in his brilliant United Nations speech, that peace in Colombia is inextricable from peace in Ukraine, Palestine and in any corner of the world where the policy of death seeks to cancel life and that without peace the indispensable fight against social and climate emergency will have a limited journey. Until recently that bold message could seem utopian; in Colombia today it is no longer. As Senators María José Pizarro and Iván Cepeda have explained today, despite the bloody legacy of the paramilitarism of the warlords, Colombia is already building the legal framework that will silence the weapons to talk about life and, despite the opposition of the great speculators, has just approved a tax reform, the most progressive in its history, will be contained in social and environmental justice, without which peace would be fragile. They said that that would not happen, but in the new Colombia that they are doing we are being taught a lesson, with boldness and determination. Dreams that seemed impossible can come true and change the lives of millions of women and men. Bravely defending peace, social and environmental justice is today the best antidote against the fanatical and destructive policies of the Bolsoneros in turn around the world. Let's look at Brazil. Instead of disarming the forts to protect the weak, Bolsonaro assaulted women and the LGBTI population, created militias against the black and indigenous population and left hundreds of thousands of workers dead during the pandemic. Instead of fighting inequality and protecting rivers, jungle or air, it favored the most indecent agribusiness... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u388	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u389	..., devastated the Amazon and public goods, enriching their own family. Instead of respecting democracy, Bolsonaro undermined it with obscene lies, with misinformation, instrumentalizing the armed forces and attacking judges who did not obey him. However, this cowardly character, who came to benefit from the arterial blow against Dilma Rousseff, from the illegal persecution against Lula, and who goes miserably without recognizing his defeat, has not prevailed. He was able to kill Marielle Franco, forced into exile activists like Jean Wyllys, but dozens of them entered institutions to continue their dreams. He was able to buy many desperate people, but most have rejected his legacy of hatred and death. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the message Brazil leaves to the world. Fascism may start some flowers, but neither its fanatical fury nor its voracious defense of privilege have been able nor will they be able to stop the spring. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u390	Thank you, Mr. Pisarello. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u391	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was necessary, in the midst of this debate on international conventions, that at least one voice will be raised in defence of the interests of Spain, not the interests of those who want to break Spain and bring international agreements to talk about what interests them. [[applause]] We are talking about very serious things that affect the Spaniards. You do international politics and politics for the Spaniards. Let's make politics for the Spaniards with the international conventions. We are talking about three airspace agreements in three places, two of them in conflict - we are talking about Armenia and Ukraine - reached by the European Union and which Spain has to corroborate or not. It seems reasonable that we recognize that the world of 2021 has changed. What was a reasonable airspace agreement at the end of last year at this time is absolute madness. Does this mean that we do not have to ratify these agreements with Ukraine, Armenia and other countries? No, but we have to draw attention to the European Union, because its slowness and delay in adopting agreements lead to the adoption at this time of an airspace agreement for the hope of peace in that territory, in the conflict in Ukraine. Let us hope that this agreement can be approved, but that it will be kept, because it would be absolutely unreasonable for Spanish airlines to fly, for example, in that territory at this time. The second part concerns the classified information agreement with Azerbaijan, a direct agreement between Spain and Azerbaijan also reached last year. We are talking about one more of the inheritances of social communism in the world, let us not forget. These conflicts that I am talking about come from the legacy of the practical application of communism and socialism in the world. [[Applauds]] That's what these conflicts come from, their perverse ideas. And that's why we're going to oppose it, because it's a conflict that also affects the Spaniards. There are already many problems with the Spanish, with energy, with arriving at the end of the month, among others - in many of us this government has put us with its irresponsible international actions - so that now we start to do that international policy that likes so much the left, those that break Spain, seeking to bring examples other countries. It's complicated what's in Azerbaijan right now, it's complicated what's in Armenia. We have religions, we have ideas and we have the heritage of republics - remember that you - Soviets. That is the origin of this problem, the application of communism and socialism. There was already an agreement here between all the groups to ask for international legality, and Spain does not deserve to enter into a conflict right now, which, moreover, affects energy, which is what really affects the Spaniards - you are full of mouths talking about it - right now. A little bit of responsibility, a little bit of caution, a little bit of caution and a little bit of thinking about Spain and the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u392	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u393	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I am speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group to say that we are going to support all the conventions, but that we are going to abstain in one. It has been and has been the policy of this parliamentary group to support all the conventions that bring us here, but today I have to say that we are surprised, and very surprised, that some of the groups that support the Government persist and bring to vote the Azerbaijan convention on confidential information, mainly on one issue. It is true that the PSOE always has us accustomed to the policy of contradiction, they are able to blow and sip at the same time, in that they are champions. I would like to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that two weeks ago a communiqué was read here, which was adopted by all the parliamentary groups, condemning precisely what is happening in Azerbaijan. And what's our surprise? On the same day, an agreement with Azerbaijan was adopted in the Foreign Committee. Your Honor, what is the use of institutional communications? Is it wet paper? What value do they have? What value do you value in supporting the government? We find it a real shame for you to support an agreement when you said the opposite two days ago in the rostrum. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u394	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Prieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u395	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what are international agreements? These are the instruments that allow us in a global world where there are no stagnant, regular, improved and guaranteed relations between citizens, businesses and organisations of all kinds in economic relations, in individual relations, in trade and also in security cooperation. In other words, without these agreements we will not prevent existing relations from developing, but we would go to darker areas, with less guarantees, less rules of play and less legal protection. In this sense, what I am asking is for us to differentiate each and every one of the agreements. Let us not think about our political views on specific situations, on specific conflicts or on the social agreements that we bring here, on economic agreements or on security agreements. Think of the citizens or organizations we give protection to. In the agreement with Azerbaijan, we are not talking about the conflict, on which we have a unanimous political opinion in this Chamber, but we are talking about giving greater security and protection to Spanish civil servants who, in terms of security, work outside our borders in the fight against international terrorism, precisely, and in a much more transversal way, for our individual and collective security. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of VOX and other groups, you talk a lot about patriotism and defending the Spaniards and with this agreement, to which you are going to oppose or abstain - you have changed your mind at the last moment, gentlemen of the PP - it is precisely the protection of our citizens, our compatriots, in the most difficult and complicated tasks within the Public Service, which are those of working for our security in countries and in conflict areas or in sensitive areas. This agreement that we bring today - we respect all personal opinions - tries to think of the ultimate object, the last people to whom we protect; in particular, those officials and, in general, our country. Once again, they don't care what it is. You show that you are far removed from true patriotism, the one that protects, the one that takes care of and the one that gives guarantees to all citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u396	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u397	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the improvement of the working conditions and social security of workers in the service of the home, coming from the Royal Decree Law 16/2022 of 6 September. This proposal will then be put to the vote, together with the other matters. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We started with motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for a resolution by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the Government's criteria for progress in the decarbonisation of industry in Spain and, in particular, with regard to Solvay. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 283 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u399	Accordingly, the motion was adopted. - the Parliamentary Group on the contribution of the Government to a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. [[File number 173/000175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u400	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's contribution to a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 36 against, 303 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u401	The motion is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the measures it intends to take THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE OF THE INCREASE IN THE ILLEGAL OCCUPATIONS OF LIVING. [[File number 173/000176]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u402	Motion resulting from urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the measures the Government intends to take in the face of the increase in illegal housing occupations. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 154 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u403	The motion was therefore rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THE INDEPENDENCE AND IMPARIALITY OF RTVE CORPORATION AND TO END WITH POLITICAL INJURY IN THIS PUBLIC SERVICE. [[File number 173/000177]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u404	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the independence and impartiality of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and to end political interference in this public service. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 151 against, 188 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u405	The motion was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u406	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Vote on the opinion of the draft law on the promotion of the ecosystem of emerging companies, with the incorporation of the technical correction distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 177 against 88 abstentions 75.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u407	The opinion was therefore adopted. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u408	Vote on the opinion of the Sports Bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 166 against, 157 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u409	The opinion was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u410	Vote on the opinion of the draft law on institutionalization of the evaluation of public policies in the General Administration of the State. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 191 against, 2 abstentions, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u411	The opinion was therefore adopted. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING THE NATIONAL ORDER TO THE REGULATION 2018/1727 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 14 NOVEMBER 2018 ON EUROJUST, AND THE LEGAL CONFLICT, THE INTERNATIONAL LEGAL COOPERATION NETWORKS AND THE PERSONAL DEPENDENT OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE ON THE OUTSIDE. [[EU]] [[File number 121/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u412	Voting on the opinion of the draft law adapting the national legislation to Regulation 2018/1727 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on Eurojust, and regulating conflicts of jurisdiction, international legal cooperation networks and personnel under the Ministry of Justice abroad. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 271 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u413	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u414	Vote on the opinion of the draft law regulating the management system for the common agricultural policy and other related matters. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 193 against, 2 abstentions, 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u415	The opinion was therefore adopted. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIC LAW AMENDING ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO AGRAVE THE PENALTY PROVIDED FOR THE TREATMENT OF HUMANS DISPLACED BY AN ARMED CONFLICT OR A HUMANITARIAN CATASTROPHE [[PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO INCREASE THE CRIMINAL REQUIREMENTS PROVIDED FOR THE TREATMENT OF HUMANS DISPLACED BY THE BELIC CONFLICT MADE BY THE INVASION OF THE UCRANIAN TERRITORY BY THROUGH THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION]] [[File number 122/00214]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u416	Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to aggravate the penalties provided for offences of trafficking in human beings displaced by armed conflict or humanitarian catastrophe [[previously known as the Proposition of Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, in order to aggravate the penalties provided for the crimes of trafficking in human beings displaced by war conflict motivated by the invasion of Ukrainian territory by troops of the Russian Federation. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. (Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 341.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u417	The opinion was adopted unanimously. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u418	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 341.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u419	Accordingly, the proposal for an organic law was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u420	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree Law 18/2022 of 18 October, adopting measures to strengthen the protection of energy consumers and to contribute to the reduction of the consumption of natural gas in implementation of the Plan + safety for your energy, as well as measures concerning the remuneration of staff serving the public sector and the protection of potential agricultural workers affected by drought. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 282 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u421	As a result, the Royal Decree Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 334 against, 6 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u422	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u423	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the Proposal for a law for the establishment of temporary energy levies and credit institutions and credit institutions, submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 62 against, 188 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u424	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u425	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Agenda items 33, 38 and 39. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 316 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u426	The opinions were therefore adopted. - TREATMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN REPRESENTED BY THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND THE CZECH REPUBLIC REPRESENTED BY THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND SPORT ON THE FUNCTIONING AND ACTIVITY OF THE CZECH-SPAINAL BILLIGUNES SECTIONS IN THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE CZECH REPUBLIC, PREPARED ON 16 NOVEMBER 2021. [[File number 110/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u427	Treaty between the Kingdom of Spain represented by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training and the Czech Republic represented by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport concerning the operation and activity of the Czech-Spanish bilingual sections in the institutes of the Czech Republic, done in Prague on 16 November 2021. Agenda item 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 315 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u428	The opinion was therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT ON AIR TRANSPORT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE PART, AND THE STATE OF QATAR, OF THE OTHER PART, DONE IN LUXEMBOURG ON 18 OCTOBER 2021, AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/00101]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE PART, AND URANIA, OF THE OTHER PART, CONCERNING A COMMON AVIATION AREA, DATED IN KIEV ON 12 OCTOBER 2021, AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000102]] - COMMON AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, ON THE ONE PARTY, AND THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA, ON THE OTHER PARTY, ON A COMMON AVIATION AREA, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 15 NOVEMBER 2021 AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u429	Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Agenda items 35, 36 and 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 320 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u430	The opinions were therefore adopted. - TREATY OF FRIENDSHIP, GOOD VEGETABLES AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA, DONE IN MADRID ON 24 JULY 2008. [[File number 110/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u431	Treaty of friendship, good-neighbourliness and cooperation between the Kingdom of Spain and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, signed in Madrid on 24 July 2008. Agenda item 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 286 against, 4 abstentions, 48.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u432	The opinion was therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIYAN FOR THE EXCHANGE AND MUTUAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 14 DECEMBER 2021. [[File number 110/000107]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u433	Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan for the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, done at Madrid on 14 December 2021. Agenda item 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 132 against, 174 abstentions, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u434	The opinion was therefore not adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u435	Voting of the request for the House plenary to approve the deliberation and final vote of the draft law for the improvement of the working and social security conditions of persons employed in the service of the home, from Royal Decree-Law 16/2022 of 6 September, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella i Esteve. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes cast; 335 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-03-CD221103.u436	Consequently, the bill was repealed by the plenary. Good afternoon to all your lordships. The meeting rose. It was seven and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
