ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u1	Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Take your seats, please, and keep quiet. We continue with the item on the Government's communication for the general policy debate on the state of the nation. The representatives of the parliamentary groups who were unable to speak at yesterday's meeting will then speak. Firstly, and on behalf of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, the balance sheet we make of your mandate we have collected in a dossier that we are going to facilitate and, if you are able, you can answer it. These ten minutes that we have do not give us to comment on it much less whole, but, in short, the balance that we make of your mandate and, thanks to the support of a part of Catalanism, it is that continuing to give stability to you and your Bureau has gradually moved us away from our main objective, which is the independence of Catalonia. We also conclude that Catalonia with its mandate loses; with you Catalonia always loses. The last two years have lost competence, lost resources, our SMEs and self-employed are drowning in their policies, we have lost welfare, we have lost purchasing power and I remind you that the citizens of Catalonia pay more than EUR 52 billion in taxes and we manage a budget of just EUR 30 billion. The independence of Catalonia, Mr Sánchez, means to stop coming here to beg for crumbs and start growing, start to deploy. There is no need for fiscal reform, Mr Rufián; it is the independence of Catalonia that is urgent. And there's a big difference between you and some of your partners and us. I'll give you a couple of examples. They talked yesterday about the need to fill the refrigerator for the citizens. What we are saying is that we must make it possible for citizens to fill the refrigerator alone, without anyone's help. People want to be happy, Mr Sánchez, they want to be autonomous, they don't want to depend on their subsidiary policies. And, second example: SMEs need liquidity and we have been proposing policies for years that can empower companies and not condemn themselves to aid that doesn't solve anything. Make sure the law of lateness is enforced. Let the Spanish large late companies pay the €80 billion in debt they owe to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is very easy to announce the free train allowance in a place like Madrid, where trains work, where trains are new, where you have executed 184 % of the budgets, but in Catalonia, where you have executed only 35 % of the budgets, where you accumulate a debt in infrastructure that is shameful and where you find 40 % of the total of the oldest trains in all of Spain, your measure will only serve so that people traveling by Renfe train in Catalonia continue to be late to work, but now in a free way and only from September to December. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u4	Thank you. Trains don't have to be free, Mr. Sanchez, trains have to work. And what you don't tell people is that, after all free, cuts come. Spain is the fifth country of the thirty states that make up the European Economic Area with the highest electricity price, but there is a difference between the fifth country, which is the Kingdom of Spain, and the other four countries, which is the average wage. In Belgium, for example, the average wage is EUR 52 200. In Denmark, the average wage is 61,500 euros. In Spain, the average salary is 26,800 euros. The other countries with the most expensive light double the average wage of the Spanish State. If you live in Spain, you are the one who pays the most and also the one who pays the most. Yesterday, you practically didn't talk about my nation, about the new nation, about Catalonia, but I would like to clarify a subject to you and your partners. The partial pardons reviewed and conditioned have served no purpose with regard to the process of liberation of our nation, of Catalonia. In fact, the Catalan, Catalan agenda remains exactly the same as it was when Mr Rajoy was here: economic abuse, underfunding, contempt, lies and unfulfilled promises. Yesterday, he said that we are European because we share values with Europe, we are not out of interest, but out of conviction. Can you explain to me what values you mean? Because you are violating human rights in Melilla, violating and skipping international law with regard to Catalonia, skipping international law with regard to the Sahara, spying on independent political opponents, lawyers, journalists and, yourself, to whom some Catalans give him stability, committed himself, in an electoral campaign, to arrest President Puigdemont; and I remind him that President Puigdemont is elected and that he is a free citizen in twenty-seven of the twenty-seven Member States. What values do you refer to when in the country you preside manufacture false reports, which are later echoed in many media? Villarejo, De los Cobos, Marchena, Ferreras or Quintana know perfectly well what we are talking about. So you don't have to ask us not to speak ill of Spain outside the Kingdom, because you alone are already recanting. They also fail to comply with Council of Europe resolutions, for example by not withdrawing the euro orders. This reminds me - and he connected it with what you mentioned yesterday in the modernization - that the agenda of the oppositions to be a teacher in the Spanish State has not been updated since 1996 or that the agenda of the oppositions to be a judge contains only two subjects of European law. This is what they need to start modernising and, surely, for this last, Llarena is making a fool of herself in Europe. Yesterday, you from here invited us to the dialogue table. You see the shipwreck of your whole plan and that is why, precisely now, you invite us to the table of dialogue, in which - I remind you - the two actors vetoed us. I'll be very clear. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] And I'm going to say it in Spanish for everyone to understand: Junts is just going to sit in a real negotiation process, to respect the verdict of the ballot box that so much defended you yesterday. Because I understand that when you spoke yesterday about defending the verdict of the ballots, you referred to all the verdicts and all the ballots, also those of Catalonia. What you are not going to do together is to be a rescuer at the table where there has been no dialogue and which you have fulminated, let alone accept, Mr Sánchez, that you tell us what we can talk about and what we cannot talk about. Either we sit down for this, for a real negotiation process, or we understand that you don't want the table to negotiate but to continue to mess with us. Some value that you speak of judicialization and I do not know if I am more concerned with those who believe you or you speak of judicialization, while your lawyers - who depend functionally and organisationally on you - are at VOX's side in all judicial cases against us. It cannot be that you, Mr Sánchez, or one of your ministers speak of reunion or dialogue when you yourself are the direct prosecution in the judicial cases that affect us and you are on the side of VOX. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] I'm finishing up. In the end it has turned out that the criminal organization was not the CoRs, the criminal organization has been and is the ones who have accused the CoRs and the independence of terrorism. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Also the non-independence victims, which we are now beginning to know. All solidarity also with you, a solidarity that has not been reciprocal when the victims have been the independenceists, but I suppose this is what marks the difference between being or not being on the right side of history. When all this which I have told very briefly happens in your country, in your state, Mr Sánchez, and your answer is a cynical empty and recurring page, you cannot be credible. Because all this, Mr Sánchez, passes ideologies, goes from fundamental rights that you are allowing to fulminate. We're never going to bleach this, we're never going to give stability to this. And it ended, you yesterday throughout the debate repeated many times that you are going to go for it all. Mr. Sanchez... [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u6	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to be concise, Mr President, and I will try to analyse the issues on which you have not spoken or spoken insufficiently and to point out some of those you have spoken about and on which we have some doubts. He devoted ten seconds to the political conflict in Catalonia. The first debate of what we call the state of the nation since 2015 and devoted ten seconds to talking about the political conflict in Catalonia!It is absolutely insufficient, that they do not speak does not mean that they do not exist. And they must make proposals, proposals that are concrete. We support the dialogue table from the outset and continue to support it, Mr President. But the dialogue table met for the first time almost two and a half years ago and has met only twice. The dialogue table can't be a slogan, there can't be two pictures every year and a half. He needs results. Because, do you know what's going on? That the dialogue table is like that fruit that is obvious to mature, but that if you don't eat it when it's your time, it rots in your hands. And he talks to one who is convinced that there are few alternatives to this dialogue table, that it will not be his failure, that it will not be the failure of Republican Left, that it would be a collective failure. On the subject of Catalonia, you said yesterday, for example, that you do not see a majority to reform the Criminal Code of the offence of secession to approve it to the rest of Europe. Bring a proposal, explore. Here there have been alternatives, here there has been a majority for the law of democratic memory, as they explore alternatives because perhaps there are, if there is really will. Look, you talked about Title VIII. He says Title VIII works and works well. Beyond our aspirations, let us make an assessment of Title VIII. Title VIII and the decentralization of the State can work if well financed. They have the funding model of the autonomous communities expired since 2014 and made no mention of their willingness to reform it. What are you waiting for? What are we waiting for? Should the PP and VOX come and make their system of financing the Autonomous Communities? We're all going to regret it. But they have not reformed the local funding system, which was last modified in 2004 and was already expired; it is that they have not reversed the LRSAL, which corrects local corporations, as they committed themselves, as we committed ourselves. So there is a lot of work to be done. As for infrastructure, an economy to be competitive has to have good infrastructure, and to have good infrastructure you have to have a budget; and this House is responsible for you having a budget and the House has fulfilled it. You have not executed the budget as it deserved and as it deserved Catalonia. Much of the investment in the budget is channelled through public enterprises. From the budget of 2021, public enterprises implemented only 27 % of what was budgeted in Catalonia, 27 % in Catalonia, 48 % in Spain as a whole, and 103% in the Autonomous Community of Madrid - regardless of the motorway effect. You announced yesterday the free railway. ADIF in Catalonia has invested 23.9%; in the total of the State, 38.8%, 15% more; Madrid, 69%, 45% more than Catalonia. ADIF High Speed has invested 4 % in Catalonia; 105 % in Madrid and 37 % in the State as a whole. Renfe invested 34.6% in Catalonia in 2021; 229 % in Madrid and 75 % in the State as a whole. Of this, Mr President, you also have to talk and you have to explain, if you want to approve another budget - at least with the votes of the Democratic Party - how you intend to remedy and resolve this. On the economic issues that you spoke about yesterday, as far as inflation is concerned, we agree, we agree with the diagnosis, we can agree with some of the measures that you announced to alleviate the effects of inflation. We are not so clear what decisions or policies the Government is going to take to combat inflation itself. In an hour and a half speech the President of the Government cannot go up to this rostrum and not talk about research and development. What are the Government's commitments in research and development? You cannot go up here and not talk about what the effect of interest rates is going to be on public finances and small and medium-sized enterprises; we would like to know what your approach is here. After what he spoke about and the measures he announced, one has the feeling of a certain degree of improvisation, of little coherence. Yesterday it announced the freeness of the vicinity and the middle distance in Renfe, but two weeks ago, in a decree that we have not yet validated, it announced 50%. What's happened in these two weeks to change your mind? What's the reason? And why only on the railroad? Because all those Spanish and Spanish - and not the Spanish or Spanish, but all those Spanish and Spanish - who have as their only public transport the bus, are they not being subsidised? Those who do not have an alternative, are they not rewarded? Doesn't the subway improve to 100%? Doesn't Generalitat Ferrocarrils benefit 100%? How do you plan to fix it? And to reassure you, I'll say something. Yesterday I saw a certain momentary panic at the IBEX when you announced a tax on big electrics and financial institutions. I am no one, but I wanted to reassure them and perhaps unquill some of their partners, because these measures sometimes have more marketing than reality, and I tell them so. You yourself announced a tax on digital services; estimated collection: 1.2 billion, reality: 16%. You announced a tax on financial transactions; announcement: 1 billion collection, reality: 30%.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u7	Mr. Bel, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u8	I'm done, Madam President. Therefore, those who were nervous yesterday I say let's wait for the small print and see the effect of some ads. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. I now give the floor to Mr Errejón. Galvan.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first debate on the state of the nation in seven years, and it also comes - and we have to take care of it - at a rare time, in a rare climate. Today, surely, there are few people paying attention to this debate, and the people who are paying attention to it do so with a mixture of distance, distrust or disbelief, with the feeling that politics has long been far removed from their daily lives. This climate does not affect us all alike, this climate is the breeding ground of reaction, because the reactionary wave and the contempt of politics are the same thing; there cannot be one if there has not been the other before. Only with the destabilization of politics can the power of the usual, of those who have it not by vote, but by surname or by inheritance be restored; because without labour policy, it is only the order and command of the bosses; without energy policy, it is the collo of the owners of the electric and oil companies; without housing policy, it is the whim of the vulture funds. When the reactionaries denigrate politics they do not do so so that the individual is freer, but rather that he is more alone and therefore more subject to the dictate of the owners of money. Faced with that, and faced with disenchantment and disbelief, it is imperative that we bring politics back to everyday life, that we demand a policy that serves the weak to become strong and to live a life with less fear. Humbly, Mr President, we have tried this during these two and a half years of parliamentary term in More Country-Green EQUO, to make a green policy that moves away from noise and that deals with issues that really matter, whether or not they are fashionable. We have persevered from the first minute on to bet on greater ambition in the ecological transition and green industrialization. First of all, because the climate crisis is the greatest threat we face as a species, and only an integrator is not able to assume that this infernal heat we are experiencing is not normal, and threatens to make things worse. And secondly, because in Spain there will only be prosperity and decent jobs if they are associated with a green industrialization that makes our country a power in new energies, electric mobility, energy efficiency, quality food and care. We have opened - and we are proud of it - a genuine national debate on mental health. We have already achieved that Spain recognizes that it has a problem, that it is not normal for everyday life to hurt so much every day. We have managed to break the taboo and let no one be ashamed to ask for help, but now it is necessary to turn this into public policies, into psychologists in the public, so that those who help you if you are suffering do not depend on you having seventy or eighty euros a week, because most Spaniards do not have them. And so it has also been on issues such as the reduction of working time by conciliation, by energy saving and by efficiency, on issues such as the regulation of algorithms, in the fight against macho violence - twenty-four women killed in what goes on in the year - or in the fight against violence against the LGBT collective. Only a year ago Samuel in Coruña was killed in the cry of Maricón!, and there are still those who deny that it was a homophobic crime. Mr President, in March we told him that the legislature had already changed - four months ago - and that it had entered a moment of fork, that triumphalism had to be abandoned and that everything would henceforth depend on how the Government responded to one question: who will pay for the crisis? How are the charges going to be distributed? Since then, during these four months we have been insisting that it was necessary a strong and determined rudder strike, that it would assume that in times of fat cows perhaps, but in times of weak cows you cannot content everyone and you have to choose who is covered first, who is protected first, because if not, the normal functioning of what they call the free market is to concentrate the profits from above and the sacrifices from below. That's why it took a rudder hit and I, Mr. President, yesterday heard that rudder hit, and I'm glad. I want to believe that this rudder blow goes all the way, because we all have the country in it and because there are no alternatives. I think it's that way, but that rudder hit has to get to everyday life and it can't be half. I do not believe that the spirit of the Spanish people endures one more disappointment or one more failed announcement. This must be brought to the end, despite the attacks that will be received. It is obvious - you said it yesterday - that the fundamental problem of the Spaniards is inflation: life is increasingly difficult because wages are less and less, and this - we have said it more times and we will not tire of repeating it - is not a technical problem. There is a political dispute in Spain right now between different actors trying to transfer costs to the rest. If there is no determined public policy, those who have earned the most money during this time, those who have been the first to receive public subsidies and subsidies will do everything possible to transfer the costs to workers, consumers and the State; by day denigrating the public and by night being the first to receive subsidies and subsidies. A determined intervention is necessary so that those above do not transfer the costs to those below, because basically what they are doing is throwing a pulse at the state, and that pulse cannot win it. The key of our time is clearly the return of the State, not only of the State as an insurer, as a gendarme or as a lender of last resort, but of the State as responsible, of the State as an entrepreneur and of the just State. In England they have already put a stop to the benefits of energy, in Italy they are on the same path and in Belgium an ambitious, progressive and fair tax reform is already under way. The idea in this is very simple. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u12	Thank you, President. The idea is very simple: if the state has been for the pandemic, if the state can be every time some people demand it for war, then the state can and must be, first of all, for the fight against the climate crisis and for the right of everyone to live lives in peace and free from fear of poverty and inequality. That is why yesterday everything was clarified with one of the announcements you made: a temporary but extraordinary tax on banking and energy. Suddenly, the camp in this Congress was clearly clarified; neither polarization, nor left, nor right, nor insults. It announces a tax to protect those who need it most and the benches of the right, as if their salaries will be paid by the banks and the electrics and not the Spanish people, they immediately run to say that it is a measure that makes no sense. The field was clarified yesterday in a clear and clear way. That is the way forward and that is the way in which you will find us, Mr President, but in order to get through it, it is necessary that yesterday's announcements reach everyday life and it is necessary to reach the end and not to remain half-hearted. Firstly, a policy of price control must be applied in the inflationary sectors because, if not, all the aid, all the subsidies and all the efforts that the Spanish people make, the most powerful sectors can end up impacting consumers and workers. Some say this is impossible. It was done with antigen tests: there was going to be depletion, but they went from 15 euros to 3 euros, without depletion. Some say that it is impossible to apply it, for example, in the rental market. However, the Catalan rental law has managed to lower prices without lowering offers. Price control must be applied in the energy and rental sectors. Mr President, a fair tax reform must be made, because if this government does not do it to protect those below, it will pay the ground for the right to do it within a year or two years to protect even more those above and to give them more gifts. You have repeatedly talked about an income pact and here the most important thing is to clarify which income pact is. There is no moral legitimacy to demand from someone who charges 1300 euros - the average salary of a Spaniard - that they have moderation or that they have restraint in their wages if before they have not been demanded from a gentleman like Sánchez Galán, who earns 36,000 euros a day, that the income pact, containment and moderation must start first from above. Income policy, yes, but let's start from above. Secondly and lastly, we must step on the green energy accelerator in order not to rely on gas and oil and democratize access to energy with an impetus to energy communities. Mr President - and I finish now, Madam President - we must win the war against pessimism and this is done by opening a virtuous cycle in which each conquest shows that not only do not come the cataclysms that the agrarians say, but you can go for more, and for this you have to go strong, you have to go with everything and you have to go to the end. If that's the way, you'll count on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u14	We said yesterday that seven years ago of that debate, that the country has changed and that Congress has changed in faces and, unfortunately, in forms. In fact, here we will only repeat four. My unfinished speech at the time by an inopportune surge of tension was an abbey of the PP government. Reading these days, I find many things that, fortunately, have changed and others that, unfortunately, remain pending. However, I am satisfied that Compromís contributes to change because it is not the same as a People's Party government, which ruled with heaviness against people and silk gloves with the powerful, which this progressive majority that gives us the opportunity to govern for others, even though it has so far been used with desperate prudence. Mr Sánchez, yesterday he announced measures that Compromís and other parties have been demanding for a long time: taxes on banking and energy companies. By the way, what will PP do and what will VOX do? I play a paella that Mrs Gamarra and Mr Abascal find an excuse to vote against. And look what I'd pay that paella at ease! Another thing, Mr. Sanchez. They would never have dared to put forward measures like yesterday if they had ruled with Citizens, as they repeatedly tried. These measures will come forward because the votes lacking in his Government are completed by the progressive parties of the Valencian, Basque, Galician, Catalan, Canary, Aragonese, Cantabrian and even Madridn territories. We truly celebrate these announced measures, but, as Jung said, you are what you do, not what you say you will do. Or rather, as Saint Thomas said: If I do not see the signs of the nails and enter my hand on his side, I will not believe. The signals of the nails or hand on the side will be published in the BOE. Then I'll believe and then we'll believe. And believe me, the workers, the popular and the most disadvantaged classes need to believe. Ah! And that companies don't impact on consumers. Seven years later, I resumed my particular incomplete abecedary. There are things that are still the same. With the a, disgust, auditions and patriotic police trying from the sewers to subvert democracy. With the bee, box B of PP and Bárcenas is still rabidly up to date. With the ce, corruption of the PP continues to flourish every day, even now with the masks of the Madrid PP. With that of, inequality is persistent and the dispossessed without alternative persist. Housing is a serious problem and the Valencians also want those 12,000 camping homes, our particular camp. With the i, the Ibex 35 continue to split the country with record profits and price size, harming honest companies. With the pin, it marks Spain. [[Ms. Romero Sánchez: Let's see if you get to the o]] Those who speak a different language and those who have a different culture continue to feel little respect and little affection for our languages and a persistent centralizing reflection. With the foot, the prices and the shopping basket opened. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: Decency!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u15	Quiet, please! [[Rumors]] I'm asking you to be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u16	They go to paid schools, but bad manners always carry it. [[Applauds.-Mr. De Olano Vela utters words that are not perceived.]] I was saying that farmers don't get this price rise. There are three outstanding subjects. Examples: financing - it is scandalous and embarrassing that we are still as we were seven years ago - and the infamous law gags, with which they have been ruling for three years. With the error, fiscal reform and reform of the Constitution to include the term disabled and for Valencians to regain our civil law. Things have been done - of course, things have been done and that is why we are voting in favour - such as labour reform, the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage, the rise in the minimum living income and many more, and those that can continue to be done with a progressive majority, which is the only one that is making progress in this country. We have one year left, let's take advantage of it and approve your outstanding subjects in September. He ended up with a message for Mrs. Gamarra. Yesterday I had Mr. Maroto sitting next to him all day. Let us remember Mr. Maroto's words: My legs do not tremble to reach agreements with anyone. He was referring to Bildu, four agreements with Bildu. [[Applauds]] He's been sitting there all day. [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Applause]] Or those of Mr Aznar in the year 98: I personally authorized contacts with the Vasco movement of liberation. No more hypocrisy and no more use of victims for their own benefit. Enough! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, the debate on the state of the nation called for this debate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I'm asking for silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u20	Allow me a small precision or not. [[Continue your intervention in Galician]] Therefore, it is good to remember that, when we are already on the eve of Galega's Homeland Day, on 25 July, the BNG demands full sovereignty of Galicia. To confirm that we are right, I must start by pointing out that Galicia was absent from its intervention, despite the fact that today we know that we have 11.1% inflation, more than one point above the average of the Spanish State and, despite the industrial crisis that we are suffering, it did not deserve a single mention on its part when it spoke of leading industrial projects, housing plans, infrastructure or PART, of which my country, unfortunately, will benefit little. That absence appears to be in line with his Government's disservice to Galicia's problems, which is reflected, for example, in unjustly low budgets and 67 per cent implementation in 2021 or in the disinterest in fulfilling the entire investment agreement, especially in the area of railway infrastructure and services. Look, one of its star measures is the bonus of railway fertilizers of proximity and half distance. Do you know how many Galicians and Galicians will benefit in the case of proximity? Zero, for the simple reason that in Galicia there are no closenesses. And mid-rangers need to improve on frequencies, schedules and prices permanently, not only until December 31st. The BNG demands that it comply with Galicia, with the projects to reverse the serious industrial crisis, guarantee productive and threatened capacity in fishing or in the agro-farming sector, recover the delay in infrastructures and services, rescue the concession of AP 9, a quick solution to the A6, solve the problem of returned migrants, create three courts of gender violence, stop the predatory wind boom, transfer the outstanding competences respect the Galician language, for example. As for your announcements yesterday, it is good that the social pressure pushes you in the direction of what forces like the BNG we demand when we talk about taxes to big energy companies, banks or big fortunes. Of course you talk about temporary taxes on extraordinary profits, but we ask you: what are they? Are the scandalous EUR 11 billion of IBEX energy of 2021 extraordinary or ordinary? Frankly, it does not offer us much confidence because its credibility in this matter, after the 2021 setback in the face of the threats of the electric oligopoly, is clearly in doubt and because, above all, once again, it remains in temporary measures, rather than facing structural reforms, such as a modification of the electricity system of the marginalist market, setting up public enterprises, a Galician electricity tariff or immediately taking the price of electricity and fuels to the final consumers. In any case, the BNG always behaved constructively by supporting the proposals that we consider positive for our country in the popular classes and rejecting those that we understand negative, and we will continue to do so. But, unfortunately, so far their policies have had many shadows and fewer lights than necessary, which makes us very critical. We are never going to give the Spanish government access to the right and the right. If we denounce the non-compliances of the PSOE and Podemos it is because it is our obligation to defend above all the interests of Galicia and the Galician popular classes, but also because we will never leave the field free to the populism of reactionary forces. It is you who, with your resignation, disappoint themselves and strangers and facilitate the advancement of the right, as you have already seen in the latest electoral processes. You are called the most progressive government, but it is not progressive to open the door to the privatization of pensions and to announce new cuts, not really repealing the labour reform of the PP, keeping the law in force gags, not ending the impunity of Francoism, increasing military spending to the detriment of social policies, submissively joining the bellicose NATO and the United States, betraying the Saharan people or yielding to the electric oligopoly. Finished. Mr Sánchez, making policies that the right could do is not how you stop to the right, quite the opposite, you open a carpeted path. The BNG will defeat the PP in Galicia - yes, we will - and, if you want to overthrow Feijóo here, a turn is imposed in favour of the social majority, the popular classes and the peoples. That is what we are demanding of this Government. [[Finish your intervention in Galician]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I will begin my intervention by responding to the order in which they have risen to the rostrum. Mrs Noguera, gives the impression in this speech, once again, with all due respect, that they have somehow been frozen in 2017 and do not seem to have made any progress. [[ccccccccc]] You have come to acknowledge that Catalonia is now further away from independence and that this is not only a result of the action we can be concerted in the Spanish Government, but also because, according to the latest surveys, 38% of Catalans themselves are now defending some kind of independenceist formulation in Catalonia, but it is not the whole of the majority of Catalans and Catalans. In this regard, the Government of Spain will continue to extend its hand to Catalan society for the reunion and, without a doubt, also to its representatives. I said this yesterday in my first speech in the morning: we are going to try to narrow that gap, let's say, emotional that exists between Catalans, and also among those Catalans who want to separate themselves like you from Spain, and those who we consider to be, of course, their brothers, the rest of Spanish and Spanish. With regard to this maximalist idea of not sitting at the table and not recognizing any of the efforts being made by the Government of Spain for this reunion, they pay a kind of territorial aggravation and punishment by the Government of Spain to the whole of Catalan society, and that is not the case, Your Honor. There are data and I will refer to them later. I believe that yesterday we did an honest exercise in the Government of Spain to know what is the main concern of Catalan society and Spanish society right now. We have just heard the bad news from the National Statistical Institute, which in fact reaffirms an inflation of 10% in June, and that has much to do with the current situation in Ukraine and with energy prices and food prices. Simply, for you to get an idea, Russia's cut in gas exports accounted for 70% and that of oil for 40%, and only in June has oil been increased by 50%. The Government of Spain, Your Honor, is doing everything and more to try to cushion the effects of inflation between the middle working class and the most vulnerable groups also - yesterday I explained - with that royal decree law - which I hope can be validated in the morning - with 15 billion euros until the next 31 December; with all the measures that we have put in place at European level such as the top of the gas to electricity generation and that has caused the bill of light in our country to be reduced by 14%, with savings of 250 million euros per month, and, indeed, with some of the measures that I announced yesterday in the debate on the state of the nation as can be, for example, the improvement of the 100 percent of rolling stock, proximity and also of the half-distance trains. It seems that you do not very much agree with the 100 % bonus and the impetus, therefore, to public transport. I don't understand why and I don't know what the arguments are. In fact, I think you have come to say in this rostrum that one cannot improve one hundred percent of the rolling stock in Catalonia and that later cuts will come. I do not quite understand what you are talking about, but in any case, I will give you some information on the bet that the Spanish Government is making on the modernisation of rolling stock. Before that, I would like to deny with figures some of your proclamations, with all due respect, Your Honor. In four years of progressive government Catalonia has received 37.6% more resources than in the last years of administration of the People's Party and with the General Budgets of the State of 2022 - those you did not approve - Catalonia will have the highest bills in the entire historical series. We are talking about EUR 21 056 million, or 6.8% more than you received in 2021, and also with extraordinary resources, which I believe would be fair for you to recognise. For example, Your Honor, in 2020 Catalonia received EUR 3166 million from the COVID-19 Fund; EUR 45 million from the Extraordinary Social Fund; EUR 51 million from the Extraordinary Economic Measures Plan; EUR 2160 million from the additional fund; and EUR 993 million from the Business Support Fund. In other words, I believe that, in the most difficult moments of the pandemic, the Government of Spain, as it cannot be otherwise, has been supportive and consistent with all administrations, transferring resources to meet the challenge of the pandemic. In the General Budgets of the State too - you have not recognized it, Your Honor, but it seems to me that it is important because it has been one of the main demands of the Generalitat of Catalonia for many years - it is finally included the transfer of 200 million euros in compliance with the judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court and 336 million euros for the regularization of the revised financing of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Mr President, I believe that everything we have been doing for dialogue and consultation with the Catalan administration is bearing fruit with the activation of the various bilateral bureaux that we are setting up for the follow-up of the budgetary agreements, also with the bilateral committee on transfers and resources that we are transferring and, of course - I will refer to this later - with the dialogue table. Mrs Noguera has made a reference - and also Mr Bel - to the fact that the central State has implemented less of the investments budgeted in Catalonia, while they doubled in Madrid. [[ccccccccc]] I have made reference to this on some other occasion, but I will give you even more specific data, because I think it is important to deny this statement. In the case of investments by the General Administration in Catalonia, execution during 2021 was 91,1 % of the initial appropriations, i.e. a total of EUR 153 million, and Catalonia therefore reached a higher than the average execution of the Autonomous Communities, which was 89,5 %. That is to say, 91 % as against 89,5 %. However, the execution of the public business sector has been far from the initial investment, with a percentage of 27.3%, which is, in fact, what Mr Bel said. But, look, the budget execution of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, which is the main investor ministry, obviously - as Mr Bel and Mrs Noguera said - has generally come down in all of Spain in 2021, and I think we have sometimes explained from the rostrum why this low execution, not only in Catalonia, but throughout the country. [[ccccccccc]] You are part of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Talk also with the investment departments of the Generalitat de Catalunya to explain the difficulties with the bottlenecks, with inflation, with the pandemic and with the confinement in the execution of some of these public works. In any case, I would like to say that, although the budget implementation of 2021 was lower than the desired one - that is, 58 % of the Ministry of Transport - in Catalonia nearly EUR 1641 million has been implemented, the highest implementation figure in the last eleven years. I repeat, the highest execution figure in the last eleven years. Catalonia is the second in this ranking behind Madrid, where a very similar order of magnitude was executed: 1706 million euros. That is to say, we are talking about 1641 million euros - the highest execution figure in the last eleven years of the Ministry of Transport in Catalonia - compared to 1706 million euros in the Community of Madrid. A rather eloquent example of this investment bet in Catalonia is found in the Catalan conventional rail network, that is, proximity and regional. In the last three years the execution of state investment has increased from 250 million euros in the year 2018 - we concentrate on the government - to almost 800 million euros in the year 2020, the maximum of the historical execution that has been made in this respect in Catalonia. As I said before, we have launched the Bilateral Infrastructure Commission and the Investments in Infrastructure Commission and, thanks to the investment effort, in 2022 we hope that some of the important projects that are under way such as the railway access to the airport of Barcelona, the doubling of Parets-La Garriga, the stations of La Sagrera and also of Sant Andreu or the underground of Sant Feliu-L'Hospitalet and Montcada i Reixac. With this, Your Honor, I believe that we are making an extraordinary effort that must also be recognized by the Catalan political forces, in particular the independenceists, because we are not really aggravating Catalonia territorially, but rather betting - as we are doing with the rest of the territories - on the development and modernization of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Mrs Noguera also mentioned that the funds are not reaching small and medium-sized enterprises. [[ccccccccc]] I think I said that yesterday in my speech: this government is betting on small and medium-sized enterprises in Catalonia and throughout the country. There is a specific component of the European funds exclusively for small and medium-sized enterprises, with EUR 4894 million. We are pushing in Congress, and right now we are processing in the General Courts, a draft law Create and Grow, which has already passed Congress, a competition law, which is already approved by Congress, a law of startups, which is approved by the Council of Ministers on December 10, 2021 and which is now in parliamentary procedure, and yesterday I referred to this very important project of the digital kit, equipped with 3067 million euros and destined for the digitization of companies from 10 to 49 workers in key areas such as the presence on the Internet, the electronic sale or the management of customers and suppliers. 10,000 small and medium-sized enterprises have already benefited from this project. I also said that a PERTE of the electric and connected vehicle, a strategic project that is very important for the automotive sector in Catalonia, will involve a mobilization, between public and private investment, of 11,855 million euros. Small and medium-sized enterprises account for almost 56 % of the participating entities, followed by large enterprises, which account for 38,8 %. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are also making an extraordinary effort to incorporate the whole value chain into the modernisation of European funds. I believe that from small and medium-sized enterprises I have responded to what you mentioned earlier. As for Rodalies in Catalonia, Your Honor, I was told by the Minister of Transport that EUR 380 million has been implemented under the recovery plan. With regard to the dialogue table, Your Honor, I would like to see Junts per Catalunya join that dialogue table. It seems to me that it is necessary for you to be incorporated, to defend your ideas, to defend your approaches and that, in some way, the entire Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia should be incorporated into that dialogue table and that we should start with that agreement on methodology which it has proposed and which has been agreed between the two governments; that we should start to make concrete, non-maximumist progress which is beginning to bring positions closer together. I believe that the 'worst, better', which is the strategy you are following on this issue, is wrong. I think that they are turning their backs on the whole of Catalan citizenship, that what they want is coexistence, that what they want is a reunion, that they want to go beyond the 2017 stage. I hope you get out of the freezer, move forward in your positions and move from extremist positions to far more pragmatic positions in order to resolve this conflict. [[Applauds]] Mr Bel has made a complaint to me that I have not talked about innovation and research, and he has simply said that the non-financial items linked to R & D and i represent EUR 3843 million and that this government has been the one that has raised the highest public supply of employment in the last fifteen years to science; we are talking about a 120 % replacement rate. On the conflict in Catalonia, Your Honor, I thank you for the tone, and I also thank you for the position that PeCAT has always had on the dialogue table. Of course, the position of the Spanish Government is that this dialogue table should be held as soon as possible. I believe that it has been a good step forward - probably not sufficiently highlighted and in value - the agreement on methodology that we have reached both sides of the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain to begin to move forward on concrete results that separate us from the maximalist positions and that begin to see tangible results. I want you to know that the position of the Government of Spain is to reach out, to promote dialogue and to begin to resolve this crisis among all of us. On autonomous financing, I have responded to what economic resources we are transferring to Catalonia since I have the honour of being President of the Government. I repeat again: 37.6% more resources than Rajoy's last four years at the head of the government. To supplement some data that I have given to Mrs Noguera, in 2021 and until June 2022 Catalonia has received 47 billion euros in European funds; of them, 1706 million euros from the REACTEUR Fund; 2955 million euros from the recovery plan, of which 1975 million euros has received them through transfers from sectoral conferences, agreements, grants, direct concessions agreed with the Generalitat of Catalonia. [[ccccccccc]] That is to say, this figure accounts for 14.14 % of the total allocated to the whole State, a figure close to that which would have corresponded to it if the distribution had been made according to the population criterion. Your Honor, in relation to the rollovers and the announcement we made of the 100 percent bonus, it is answered. You raised why that does not extend to other public transport. The Government of Spain has proposed a 30% bonus and it will have to be the autonomous communities that complement, where they have competence, this so important bonus that the Government of Spain is making to boost public transport in this inflationary situation that we are suffering. Mr. Errejón, I appreciate the tone. I share with him that, in fact, we have to speed up the energy transition, the ecological transition. I believe that the Government of Spain is honestly doing so. If we simply review everything we've approved in these two and a half years of pandemic and now war, we can say that this is an ecological government, that this is a green government. There's the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. I also appreciate the support of your group. We have designed the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan which is recognized as one of the most ambitious and solvents by the community institutions. We have launched the Just Transition Strategy so that, in fact, those territories that are going to see traditional primary energy sources closed see opportunities around the energy transition. 40% of the recovery funds we are allocating to the ecological transition. The Council of Energy Ministers of the European Union of 29 June agreed to reduce CO2 emissions by 55% in 2030 compared to 1990 levels. I believe that this decision has been translated into the European Parliament and the European Council through the legislative package known as Fit for 55, something in which the Spanish Government has played a leading role. In the area of the most vulnerable groups, here is what we have done with the thermal social bonus, what we have done with the increase in minimum vital income, with the social bonus. We have also created the vital minimum supply figure to protect the most vulnerable consumers from possible supply cuts. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the green agenda of the Government of Spain is intense and very ambitious; that it obviously counts on the discomfort of some sectors that want to maintain the status quo, and here we have seen it throughout the debate with the right and the right side, that there are difficulties because we are removing those status quo, but we will continue with that decided bet. I would like to complement some of your reflections on the ecological transition, precisely in these days that we are suffering this new heat wave and the fires that are now witnessing a large part of the citizens of the Iberian peninsula. I'm thinking, above all, Extremadura, Cáceres. I remind you that we have adopted a plan to prevent and combat forest fires that coordinates the action of up to twelve ministries in order to mitigate fires to the extent of our possibilities. The Government has the following resources to combat fires: the EMU, for example, has 1400 military personnel in the direct fight against forest fires; the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge makes available to the autonomous communities a total of fifty-seven aircraft and the human resources that are part of the Forest Fire Reinforcement Brigades, and there is obviously the announcement I made yesterday to approve shortly a state framework that recognizes labour rights and stability to these bodies also from the autonomous communities. I believe that some of the events we have seen over the past few weeks in some of the territories of our country have to make us reflect on this and, in particular, on some autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] On the fair distribution of the crisis, little more can I say of what you have commented. Your Honor, I was referring to that yesterday. After Lithuania and Greece, we are the third most economically resourced country in Europe to cushion the effects of inflation. More than EUR 30 billion - i.e. 2.3 points of gross domestic product - are being made available to the middle working class and the most vulnerable groups. I share with you, Your Honor, and I have said this on many other occasions, that this crisis cannot be the perfect excuse, as it is for the right and the right, when it comes to curbing the energy transition. On the contrary, we need to increase all our efforts to deploy renewable energy, we need to talk about energy saving, we need to talk about energy efficiency. I believe that the General Administration of the State is setting an example with this energy saving and energy efficiency plan with EUR 1 billion. We would also like other territorial administrations to be incorporated into this dynamic. And, without a doubt, I believe that self-consumption is another source of energy independence that we have to continue to drive in our country. I thank you very much for the contribution your group has made to the debate on mental health. I just want to remind you of some figures. We have increased the number of places offered from 2018 to 2022: psychiatric, 27%; clinical psychologists, 67%; and mental health-related diseases, 59%. We have updated the Mental Health Strategy for the first time in twelve years. We have approved and implemented the Plan of Action for Mental Health and for COVID 2022-2024, which will allow to finance with 100 million euros in three years specific actions in the field of mental health. And, as you know, we put in place phone 024, which you also claimed during the pandemic, from attention to suicidal behavior. Indeed, the results of the calls to this phone show that there was a latent demand which, fortunately, has gone out into the water, which is now visible and which demonstrates the gravity of the situation that many of our fellow citizens are experiencing. In the first month of operation - launched on May 10th - 15,000 calls have been answered, 650 calls to 112 have been derived and 290 ongoing suicides have been identified. And, as I mentioned earlier, during the pandemic, a telephone service was set up to provide psychological care and support to the population most affected by COVID-19. Simply so that we have this data: between March 2020 and February 2021 he answered 13,000 calls. In addition, we have created a platform for telephone psychological care for health professionals and have included severe mental illness in priority vaccination groups. Yesterday, I think, we made a very important announcement and it came, by the way, from the Parliamentary Committee on Reconstruction, that is to say, from the conclusions of all the parliamentary groups: the establishment of a state health emergency centre linked to public health. I believe that this is undoubtedly one of the most important steps we are going to take to strengthen public health, just as we are doing with mental health. To get an idea, when we arrived at the government and started the pandemic, the center that led Fernando Simón - and that continues to lead Fernando Simón - had very few troops, it had, more or less, four or five people. We have climbed more than 20 people and what we are doing now is consolidating a centre that we hope can be of reference not only in Spain, but in Europe when it comes to dealing with these kinds of pandemic-related health emergencies. [[Applauds]] I thank Mr Baldoví - and very much - for the tone of his speech. I also logically share everything you have said about corruption. And you have spoken about the present, not only because of the facts that we are seeing in some territorial administrations governed by the People's Party, but because of the lack of response, of taking responsibility. Even not saying that such conduct will not be repeated in the future shows that the lessons of the past are disjunctive from the present. To this you will have to answer the bench of the right, but, obviously, the whole of Spanish citizenship - above all, progressive citizenship - must be very attentive to this issue, because we are seeing facts, recordings, attempts to undermine credibility, to weaken political choices contrary to what they previously thought. What I can tell you, Your Honor, is that of course this is a government that plays clean, that appeals to the clean game and that we will always claim cleanliness as an asset in political life. It is what we do, both the Party of Unity We can and the Socialist Party, that we have the honour of forming this government of progressive coalition. On the reform of the autonomous financing system, it is true that this is one of the outstanding tasks. You too will understand that we have had to face - and are facing - multiple very intense crises over the two and a half years that we have been in the legislature. In any case, we have done a lot since the Ministry of Finance; we have done a lot - I insist - at such an intense time. We have repositioned the autonomous communities in their role. The reform of the autonomous financing system is one of our priorities. It is true that in these years the absence of reforms has been compensated by a transfer that we can qualify as extraordinary in resources, so that the autonomous communities could face the greatest expenses in health, in education, in social services. I am going to give some data that I believe certify this statement: the general state budgets of 2022 envisage a total investment of 1530 million euros, that is, 25.6% more than the budgets of 2021 for the Valencian Community. The direct investment amounts to EUR 12 billion and the Valencian Community will also have capital transfers for investments amounting to EUR 269 million, which will add up to a percentage equivalent to 11,4 % of the total, far exceeding the reference laid down in the Statute of its Community, which is an investment similar to the population weight, i.e. 10,7 %. We're even above it, at 11.4%. In any case, I would like to remind you that since September 2018 the recommendations made by the committee of experts have begun to be analysed. Different proposals have been discussed on the basis of these recommendations. These recommendations were referred to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, in particular on 7 February 2020, a few days before the start of the pandemic. Following bilateral meetings between the working group of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service and each of its counterparts in the Autonomous Communities, a reform proposal for the calculation of the adjusted population was submitted at the end of 2021. The Autonomous Communities have submitted their observations. We will continue to work on drawing that design, ladies and gentlemen, but we also have to be aware of the situation so extraordinary, so complex that we are living all the administrations - no doubt also the General Administration of the State - in responding first to the pandemic - which, by the way, has not ended, unfortunately - and also logically, to the economic and social consequences of the war. In any case, about some of the criticisms that have made us linked with the law gag, I remind you that the Government of Spain has all the will to reform the law gag. Right now it is in parliamentary procedure and we would like to appeal to the rest of the parliamentary groups at this time - and I gather their glove - to do everything possible to unlock the situation and that we can conclude this legislature with the repeal of the law bites and with a law that, indeed, conforms to the criteria of security and respect for the freedoms of a consolidated democracy like ours. Mr Rego, I believe that talking about sovereignty is certainly important, but I believe that what we need to do is to strengthen our common sovereignty, which is European sovereignty. I do not think that in its analyses and also in its way of focusing on the problems of Galicians and Galicians - and, by extension, the whole of Spanish and Spanish - it incorporates the European perspective. You are talking, for example, about the price of oil, the price of gas, but you forget that there is a directive, that the Spanish Government has been fighting at the European Council so that, for example, we can get to that price of gas. To this day, in the meantime, we have succeeded in defending this measure, along with many other governments of many different colors, not only left-wing governments, such as this, but also right-wing governments or liberal governments. Until we get to that point, we have achieved an Iberian exception which, as I said before, is saving EUR 250 million per month and, above all, will allow us to shield this energy front for the coming months until May of next year, 2023, in a very complex, very uncertain scenario, where we do not know exactly what Putin is going to do, whether or not to cut off the gas permanently and, consequently, the supply to the whole of Europe. We are therefore doing things, as we are also doing in the area of responding to the energy crisis with that reform of the electricity market that we want and that we have been asking for for over a year. Or with energy interconnections, which will allow us to incorporate green alternatives, green hydrogen or also gas in a first instance to the dependence that some countries have on the import of gas and the consumption of Russian gas. In any case, Your Honor, I believe that the great lessons we have to learn, both from the pandemic and from the war in Ukraine, are that we have to reinforce our common project, which is the European project. What we cannot do is to create or consolidate sovereignty that is not complementary, but contrary to that common European project. We are a European government. We believe that Europe has given us answers precisely during the pandemic, which has been in solidarity with Spain, one of the countries that has suffered the most from the consequences of the pandemic. Now we must also be supportive of the response to this energy and food crisis that Putin is causing with the invasion of Ukraine. From there, resorts to Galicia? As I also told the representatives of Compromís, Galicia has received 27.1% more in these four years of socialist government and of the United Nations We can that in the last four years of Mariano Rajoy. You will be able to say that it is insufficient, but it is 27% more than in the last years of the People's Party government. There are extraordinary resources that I would not like to mention either, but I would like to say that, unlike the People's Party Government, this Government updated the deliveries to all autonomous communities, including local authorities. We have also had the budgets extended in 2019 and 2020, and yet we have updated the deliveries to account. This meant, for example, that Galicia would incorporate 334 million euros more in 2019 and 221 million euros more in 2020. That is to say, the parliamentary blockade, the inability to carry out budgets, was not an obstacle for this Government to increase resources with the updating of deliveries to the Autonomous Communities and the municipalities of Galicia and the whole country. And in the general state budgets of 2022 we are allocating a significant amount of resources to Galicia: we are talking about €1074.7 million. To give us an idea, this is more than the percentage of Galicia's national gross domestic product, 5.2%, and its share of the national population, which is 5.7%. Finally, I do not want to bore or overwhelm with data, but I believe that if these prove anything, it is the commitment of the Spanish Government to each and every one of the territories and, without a doubt, also to Galicia. I'm going to put some more specific data on all these figures, because sometimes we can get lost. In terms of transfers, we plan to transfer EUR 54.9 million for the bonus of the toll of the AP-9 Portuguese Ferrol-Border; EUR 8.7 million for the abolition of the tolls of O Morrazo-Vigo and A Coruña-A Barcala; EUR 4.5 million for the Consortium City of Santiago de Compostela; EUR 9.3 million for the payment of agricultural insurance premiums; EUR 20.2 million for the State Housing Plan in Galicia. And Galicia, within the framework of the Next Funds, has already received 1934 million euros. That is to say, I believe that if anything proves the data, Your Honor, it is the commitment of the Spanish Government also to Galicia and to Galicians and Galicians. [[Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair.]] On the commitments made, I would like to say that in the notes prepared by the Government, indeed, with the BNG, we have made about forty commitments and we have fulfilled twenty-one. Some of them are very important, such as ensuring the free passage of the Vigo-Redundela section of the AP-9 or developing the necessary modifications and convening working meetings on fair transition actions and agreements, which I know is something that concerns you. I was just seeing - and you made reference to it - that in Galicia there is a great weight of the electro-intensive industry. Well, we have approved the Statute for E-Intensive Consumers, whereby the industries which are granted certification of E-Intensive Consumers will be able to access an 80% reduction in the cost of access to electricity networks. This is a very important effort, it will represent a cost of 225 million euros-I want to be exact - by the General Administration of the State. There is compensatory aid for indirect CO2 emissions costs; there is a Spanish reserve fund for guarantees of electro-intensive entities; there is a climate change law and a fair transition so that such compensatory aid for indirect CO2 emissions costs is complemented by part of the revenue generated by CO2 emission auctions, and there is a participation of the autonomous communities. Since we arrived at the Government in the Ministry of Industry - here is Minister Maroto to corroborate it - eight sectoral industrial conferences have been held with the participation of the autonomous communities, and with the previous Government there was not even a sectoral conference on industry. At the last Sectoral Conference on Industry, held on 4 July, I believe that a very important and very hopeful agreement was reached for our country's industry with the social partners, which is to articulate a state pact for industry and to update the implementation of the recovery plan in the field of industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. I said yesterday that the will of the Government of Spain is to strengthen industrial policy, to adopt a new industrial law and that this pact of State for industry that was reached between the social partners and the Government of Spain is a reality so that it transcends the legislatures and that we can, in fact, re-industrialize and modernise much of our productive fabric. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with all due respect, it has become clear that the commitment of the Spanish Government to Galicia is complete and binding both from the point of view of the productive fabric and from the citizen's point of view. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u23	Thank you very much, President. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor. [[Rumors]] Wait a minute, Mrs. Nogueras. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, please, silence. Any time, Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u24	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, the proof that you don't listen to us and respect us and that practically everything is theater is that you haven't even bothered to know my name. My name is not Nogueiras, minister, nor my name is Noguera - president, I have been calling myself Noguera for a year -, my name is Nogueras. [[Rumors]] About Rodalies, don't tell me more about numbers, go to Catalonia, take a train from Rodalies Renfe and then we'll talk about this. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u26	In the freezer you seem to be, Mr Sánchez, who still gives no answer and no proposals to Catalonia, and that you here have unlimited time to do. And he's still talking about millions of rains, but the reality is that in Catalonia we're dry, Mr. Sánchez. We paid - I repeat again - more than EUR 52 billion in taxes, but we managed a budget of just 30 000. You also speak of an emotional gap between Catalans and Spanish. There is no emotional gap, I still love my family in Andalusia very much and we continue to respect ourselves very much; here the gap is between those who respect democracy and those who do not respect democracy. I insist, you now want us at the table from which you vetoed us - I remind you again - because you see the shipwreck. I ask you, Mr Sánchez: are you prepared to sit down and start a real negotiation process on the independence of Catalonia, which is the verdict of the ballot box, or are you going to continue to do the ostrich? And I'm done. You also now remembered some figures you mentioned, but yesterday you forgot to respond to the alarming situation of underfunding of health care. Is the health system at risk? It is true that some of them contributed to trying to load the health system in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u27	Mrs. Nogueras, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u28	I remind you that there are 9 billion euros of the extraordinary COVID fund, you have them, thanks to Junts per Catalunya, in your budgets; hit them, use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u29	Thank you. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u30	Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u31	Thank you, President. Thank you, President. President, don't worry, because this object I'm wearing is the Congressional tablet, it's not bullets. Data from the General Intervention of the State, territorialized investment Mr President, do not say that the same has been invested in Catalonia as in Madrid. [[showing the screen to the President of the Government]] In Catalonia, EUR 740 million has been invested; in Madrid, EUR 2086 million. This is the reality, and I am not worried about what has been invested in Madrid, what I am worried about is that in Catalonia there were more than 2 billion budgeted and only 740 have been invested. She says: the minister has told me that 380 million euros have been invested in raffles. Right. The Rodalies Plan stated that between 2020 and 2025 EUR 29 billion had to be invested, at a rate of EUR 480 million per year. They haven't invested half of what he was playing in rollers. Therefore, we will not discuss, are the figures of the General Intervention of the State. Make an amendment, that's what I'm asking. With regard to the financing system, I do not discuss the money that Catalonia has received, I discuss the financing system. You said: the General Council of the Judiciary has expired, it has been appointed since 2011. Okay. And the funding system for the Autonomous Communities has been approved since 2009, expired since 2014, and they have no intention of reforming it. Do you expect the PP and Vox to reform the autonomous financing system for the next ten years? It is a mistake of yours, of the Republican Left, of ours, of En Comú Puem and of the whole House. Financing system for local corporations. He hasn't said whether they're planning on bringing him in or not. Do you intend to fulfill your commitment to reform and repeal the LRSAL, which is so much a part of local corporations? Yes or no? And with regard to the one hundred percent bonus on Renfe's ticket, I want you to come up here and all the students or workers who don't have railways in their city and who have to go to work every day, tell them why their neighbours who have railways subsidize one hundred percent of public transport and those who don't have access to railways are not subsidized one hundred percent of public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nogueras, I'm so sorry lapsus. Do not take it as a lack of consideration and respect for you, at all. I would like to say that, in relation to the supposed vetoes to which you referred earlier, on the contrary, what we have always defended is that it is a table between governments, which is also what was defended by the independence forces in Catalonia, and what we demand is the same thing that we apply, and that there are representatives of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia at the dialogue table, not that there are other people, without any doubt important to the Catalan independence movements, but that they are obviously not part of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Simply that shade so that you will have to consider the one that you join in that dialogue table, and of course we will hear your reflections, your proposals, the virtues for you of independence, and you will also have to listen to our proposals and the defence we make of the constitutional order and of Title VIII. From there, I believe that a very important step has been taken with the methodology agreement to abandon the maximalist positions and start talking about concrete issues that will allow us to go through this so unlucky path that we have ahead of us, which is going to require a lot of patience, a lot of determination and also a lot of dialogue. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you would do well to participate, under the conditions and in the format we have both given ourselves, in this dialogue table. I, of course, hold his hand. I think it is important that Junts per Catalunya join this dialogue table. We know what your positions are, you know what our positions are and, if you want a real dialogue, that it is not a dialogue of the deaf, that you tell us your position and us ours. Let us begin to engage in dialogue and move forward on concrete results, because I believe that is what Catalan citizens call for from their public representatives. Of course, we extend our hand to Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya so that we can make this dialogue table feasible. And secondly, I would like to remind you that we would like you to do the same within Catalan society. It was precisely a president of the Generalitat de Junts per Catalunya who pushed a table within the Parliament of Catalonia to open a dialogue between the Catalan political forces, those independentists and those who are not independentists. We do not understand why you do not push that table again among the Catalan political forces, because I believe that it is not only necessary, but that it is something that is being demanded of you by the Catalan socialists and that would result in that dialogue that we have to open with you, both within Catalonia and throughout the country. On executions and so on, I will answer more, if I may, Mrs Nogueras, to Mr Bel, but, Mrs Nogueras, in the area of European funds, the autonomous communities have received more than EUR 15.5 billion in transfers. You used to refer to healing. It is that it is 10 billion euros - in addition to those 15 billion euros - that have been received under the REACT funds of the European Union, which were mainly intended for the autonomous communities to be able to cope with the clash of the COVID at the worst time of the pandemic. With this I believe that the Government of Spain has made an effort, I would say that historical, to the extent that we had ahead with the COVID-19. I believe that much can be blamed on the Government, but certainly not on the failure to transfer resources to defend our National Health System. To Mr. Bel, I'd like to do some math on Rodalies and the 100 percent announcement. As regards public transport, which is owned by the General Administration of the State, I would like to stress once again that we are going to make a 100 per cent increase. We are improving 30% in the rest of public transport ownership of other territorial administrations, and what we are asking the Autonomous Communities to do is to bring in their shoulders and put their resources to encourage public transport in those transports which are owned by them. We do so in what belongs to the State, which is Renfe, Nearness and Middle Distance. On the Plan de Rodalies 2020-2030, to which you previously referred, an investment of 63 billion euros is actually envisaged; but, to note, the main railway milestones achieved in Catalonia are the following: the railway variant of Vandellòs has already entered service, there are substantial advances in the railway connection with the Prat airport and the unfolding of the R-3 has begun, and at the same time it continues to make progress in initiatives such as the Mediterranean corridor, with the installation of the third lane in the sections between Castellbisbal and the Vila-seca knot, La Sagrera station and the railway integration operations of Sant Feliu, Montcada and L'hospitalet. And there have been two meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure Investments, which addressed all these issues, the Rodalies 2020-2030 Plan, and also the working group established by the Generalitat-State Bilateral Commission on 2 August 2021, which continues its work on the economic valuation of the actual cost of the functions transferred to the Generalitat in relation to the services of proximity and also regional. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u34	Excuse me, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u35	And one last question, Mr. Bel. I want to tell you that there's the data, Your Honor. Catalonia, since I have the honour of being President of the Government, has received 37.6% more resources than the previous Administration. There is no such territorial aggravation. There is, without a doubt, a demand for improvement in the levels of implementation. This Government recognizes this and will be deeply involved in improving this execution in Catalonia and throughout the country, but in any case the data are there and, of course, the commitment of the Government of Spain to Catalonia is total, firm and consistent, as it is with the rest of the territories. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Seven and a half years later we are in a debate about the state of the nation; seven and a half years without having one. And the first thing I want to say is something very obvious and that would be absolutely unnecessary, but I think that in Spain we have to say this: we are in the debate of the state of the nation, not in the debate of the state of the nation of nations, not in the debate of the plurinational state, not in the debate of the sum of Spanish nationalities and regions; no, we are in the debate of the state of the nation, and the anomalous and worrying thing is that this obviousness is not clear to either the parties that are in the government or the main opposition party. But, look, we haven't had a debate on the state of the nation for seven and a half years, and that, which is a democratic anomaly, gives us the opportunity to take stock of the four years Mr Sánchez has been in Moncloa. Look, you came four years ago to the shoulders of the hatred squad to Spain, led by a prisoner for kidnapping - Mr. Otegi - and by a condemned for sedition and embezzlement - Mr. Junqueras -. And it has to be recognized that the biggest hindrance the previous government put to you to get to Moncloa was a bag located in that blue chair. But his precedents before he arrived in Moncloa and the way he arrived were no longer very good omens of what his presidency was going to be. The truth is that the reality has been much worse than expected; therefore, you present yourself here for the first time after four years with an absolutely disastrous balance sheet, a disastrous balance sheet in the economic and social spheres of families, a disastrous balance sheet in the institutional sphere and a disastrous balance sheet also in the field of equality and freedom for all Spaniards. And, of course, let's start with the most important thing, which is what takes the dream away most from Spanish families: the economic and social reality of families. It has already been said here, but it must be remembered: we are suffering from the greatest inflation of the last thirty-seven years in Spain, inflation that began long before the Putin war. Putin's war has made us worse prepared as a country, with worse management to deal with the problems that, of course, everyone is suffering. And sincerely, Mr Sánchez, when I hear you trying to show empathy with the situation of families, I personally do not believe it. Because if that were the case, you would not be able to take so much of the steps you have taken as a government, because you are not really solving the situation of families at all. I don't know how long you haven't made the purchase, I don't know if with the cart, on the Internet... I'll talk to you about buying my house. I'm a mother of two children, I make a four-person purchase, and from the pandemic I've gotten used to doing it on the Internet. This allowed me to take the same purchase, the same products - exactly the same - thirteen months ago and before yesterday. Well, a normal purchase that thirteen months ago could cost us a family with two children 126 euros, today it costs 149, the same purchase. And that's just the shopping basket, add other things. For example, a friend told me that the camp in which he leaves the children in July - because the two members of the couple are working - has raised him to the week 20 euros; 20 euros of climb per week by the camp of a child. I don't think we need to talk about how much gas or rent has gone up. I know what it's like to pay a rent in Barcelona and Madrid. We are talking about an absolutely dramatic situation. That is why, frankly, I don't think you are able to empathize with the situation of families, and above all listening to him yesterday, who pulled a graph that in Spain we are super well at the wholesale price of light. Do you believe that the government propaganda that can reach families on television nullifies the sablazo that enters families on the current account, Mr. Sánchez? People know perfectly well what they are paying for and they know perfectly well what the government is doing. And the explosion that can come with the increase in loans and mortgages has not yet arrived. Today, a worker from our group told us that the mortgage has recently risen to 151 euros a month. That's gonna happen; that's gonna happen. Have you taken action during this crisis that we share? Man, of course, I'd just miss it! In fact, the best measures they have taken are those promoted and financed by Europe. For example, the financing of the European Central Bank, ERTEs - financed by European programmes - or the recovery plan, financed through Next Generation. But other measures that you have taken are making inflation worse, Mr Sánchez. They are short-term measures, they are measures that you take out because you need a holder and in the end it is shown that this is counterproductive with the main objective that you should have: to contain inflation, which is the worst tax that Spanish families can suffer. And, look, I'm not happy about this situation. And you know why I'm telling you? Because many Spaniards may have the feeling that some opposition parties can come to celebrate the bad economic data of Spain; altogether, that's the door they have to reach Moncloa: that you ruin Spain again and vote for them again. But I tell you very sincerely that we are not happy. What we do know is that if you were in the opposition - the Lords of Podemos and the Socialist Party - you would be burning the streets every day and every night without giving up any credit to the government. Yesterday you had an opportunity, Mr Sánchez, to make a sincere speech, to recognize mistakes, to recognize that this situation is very difficult to manage. And instead, he came to tell us a story; a story or a nightmare that you suffer where men smoke cigars, a sort of conspiracy; a story. And what did he take? I haven't read your book Resistance Manual, but I think there has to be a chapter there that is the manual of the bonpopulist, which is the one you pulled yesterday. Because what you did here yesterday was not present measures that the Spaniards need. The measures that you announced yesterday are the measures that you needed to go through this process of debate of the state of the nation without dying politically. [[Applauds]] That's what you needed - and that sure has it well written in the good populist's manual - an election campaign, the most expensive election campaign in history. What are they? So more taxes, which in the end will end up paying consumers. What are they? More expenditure without reforms, which we will end up paying all the Spaniards and, above all, the next generations. And of course, that is, not a peak of cutting government spending more expensive than ever. Does it not embarrass you, Mr Sánchez, on the same day to ask the Spaniards to lower the air condition - with the heat you are doing throughout Spain - and that you have not touched one of the entourage of advisors, or one of the ministers who has the most expensive government in history? Aren't you ashamed, Mr. Sanchez, really? Ask people who have children, who have older people in charge to make an effort, but you, you personally, what effort do you make? Because the measures you come here to sell, to explain, you pay them with king's gunpowder. You ask for efforts from families, SMEs and the self-employed, and you personally what effort are you making?, what adviser has you removed?, what minister has you ceased to have?, to what friend of yours has you ceased to have plugged in? I mean, you personally what effort are you making, Mr. Sanchez? Look, the fundamental criticism of many of the measures you said yesterday does not need me to do it, because you have been critical of those measures. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Sanchez? That this could be a very interesting and very productive dialogue between the liberal vision by focusing on a crisis, the liberal vision of the economy, and the vision of a Social Democrat. But if you do not believe any of the measures you present here, as you did not believe that you had to pardon the coup politicians because that was going to deflame. [[Applauds]] You do it out of necessity; out of necessity, Mr. Sánchez. You know perfectly well that measures like those you launched yesterday generate legal uncertainty, give the impression that Spain is a banana country, generate an immense hole that is not complemented by good reforms - as other countries are doing - with quiet reforms to be able to spend in times of difficulty, with reforms to ensure growth in the future. You know perfectly well that they do not control inflation, but that many of these measures are inflationary. By the way, inflation of 10.2%, a two-digit inflation, is confirmed today. But I won't waste much time telling you what you already know. Today I listened very carefully to the minister in the interview on a radio that has a lot of audience, and the minister was unable to explain her economic measures. A journalist has insisted on it: but what does this measure consist of, how have you calculated the revenues? Answer: No, we'll have to calculate it. That is the greatest sign that you have come here to improvise and solve your political problem, which is your weakness, and not the problem of the Spaniards. [[applause]] Moreover, the person who has to impose a real tax on inflation is the person who is benefiting most from inflation, which is the State. You are collecting more without doing anything; therefore, you will have to reduce unnecessary expenses, you will have to eliminate duplication, you will have to eliminate advisers. But of that nothing, that has not crossed your mind because it is an effort that belongs to you; you ask for many efforts, but always to others. Yesterday I remembered the 2008 Zapatero, and the worst thing about the 2008 Zapatero is that the 2010 Zapatero comes and then the 2011 Rajoy comes. That's the problem with you. We have to make reforms of educational quality - not of educational sectarianism - in the administration in order to be more productive, an industrial plan, reconciliation measures and birth, but you said absolutely nothing. Working families with children have - we have - a daily problem, which is to reconcile; many do not even get to have children and that is why we have such a low birth rate, and those are the reforms that need to be addressed. And now, when we talk about the pyramid, about pensions. As for the energy system, one thing is true: you are not the only one who blames Spain for not having an intelligent energy policy, it is true, but what your policy has done is to aggravate the situation. You are closing your eyes to reality, because to pretend that this ecological transition that everyone, including Spain, has to make from lowering CO2 emissions in order to have a competitive energy in the meantime, can be done without counting nuclear is not just sectarian, it is living in another world. And it is true that those who now come out in defense of nuclear energy are the ones who have started this war against nuclear energy; I would like to recall that Zorita's power station decided to close Aznar in 2003 and that Garoña closed in 2017. Europe is financing nuclear energy because it is the cheapest transition energy, which does not emit CO2 and which must allow us to boost renewable energy at the same time, for which I agree with you that Spain can not only, but must be a world power. And the point is that of a good energy thing that we had in Spain, which is not to depend on Russian gas, as if it happens to other European powers, you have made such a disaster that in the end you have started to buy more Russian gas. It's impossible to make it worse by not wanting it or in the worst nightmares. We have now become more dependent on Russian gas than we previously depended on; come on, a master move. It is true that there are many fundamental problems that not only come from this Government, but have been aggravated with this Government. And I do have a time limit and we are not going to be able to talk about a debt that is 30 points above the European average or that we are at the head of unemployment and youth insecurity, or of the problems of birth and reconciliation, but I do want to stop at something that few politicians have dared to talk about: the enormous injustice that is occurring at intergenerational level with young Spanish people. And not just young people of 20 or 25, but young people of 30 or 35, because what is happening in Spain is that they are all drinking an elixir of eternal youth, because the problems that young people of 25 once had now still have them also young people of 35 or 36 years old. This generation has suffered two serious crises since 2008. It is very difficult recently to find a generation that has suffered so much in such a short time, and they have done everything the society asked of them: they have studied, they have been prepared, they have learned languages, they have done practices in companies, some have even risked and undertaken, but they cannot buy a home, they cannot even dream of living in the neighborhoods where their parents live, they have not even had children because they can't yet afford it or they don't have a job. From 2008 to 2020, the average wage of workers aged 30 to 35 has risen by 3.8%; the wage of workers aged 25 to 29 has risen by 5.3%; the average wage of workers aged 20 to 24 has fallen by almost 3%, but the average retirement pension in the same period has risen by 40%. How are we going to pay a pension revaluation three or four times higher than the revaluation of wages that have to be maintained? You're gonna load up the public pension system, you're gonna blow it up! [[Applauds]] Yesterday, Mr Sánchez drew graphics, but he forgot which for me is one of the most important, which I already know I have taken out again: that of the population pyramid. [[shows a graph]] Mr. Sanchez, you pulled out here a graph about the light, which you didn't see. No, no, population pyramid. What are you going to do with the population pyramid? The answer they have is to raise pensions by a decree of 12% while wages remain practically frozen, losing purchasing power with inflation? It is an economic irresponsibility and an injustice in terms of intergenerational equity. And what do we ask? Of course, reforms of silence, profound: more birth, more reconciliation, fight against the submerged economy or fight against precariousness, which there is the mother of the lamb, no doubt. But, in the short term, what you have to do is include pensions in the income pact and then link the revaluation of pensions to the increase in the salaries of young people who keep them. You'll say, and how are we going to do that? Well, look, I'll tell you how they can do it. [[Applauds]] Denmark, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland or Japan Already have the basic revaluation of pensions indexed to some indicator of wage developments; Germany, New Zealand or Latvia also take into account wages in the safety mechanisms of their pension systems, and in Spain, which is the oldest countries in the world, with the most precarious in the world and with the most youth unemployment in the world, are you not going to do this? Do we really have to be the liberals the only ones who dare to go up to the rostrum to say what everyone knows, but nobody dares to say politically? Do we really have to be the same again? [[Applauds]] You will say that the pensioners have made a huge effort, and it is true, but I am also appealing to those pensioners who agree with what we are saying, because they already have the flat paid, because they have their savings, because they no longer have to pay the university for their children and want measures that guarantee that their children or grandchildren have good wages, they can buy a home, they can have children and they can aspire to live at least as well as they do, that that is already a luxury in Spain: to aspire to live as well as their parents have lived. And you know what's going on? That many pensioners have children who are what we call super payers, who are the great forgotten: middle class. And it is not the middle class that some in Madrid consider, with 140,000 euros a year. No, we're not gonna talk about that middle class, I'm gonna talk about the real middle class. I will give you a concrete example: a couple with two children, who each have a salary of 30,000 or 35,000 euros and who make up 65 000 or 70 000 euros gross per year. Many Spaniards will say: I'd like them. Right, but we're not talking about rich people. And whether you live in Barcelona, in Madrid or in a big city where everything is very expensive for nothing you arrive quietly or with luxuries at the end of the month. For these gentlemen have been trained, they have taken up demanding jobs, they see little of their children because they are out all day at work, but when they put on television and they see the president of the government, what do they hear? We have raised the interprofessional minimum wage: it does not touch them because they charge more. Dining grants: do not give them because they charge 70,000 euros per year. Officially protected housing: they do not care because they charge 70,000 euros per year between the two. Social bonus of light: neither. Free day care: neither. Your children's college scholarship: they haven't had any luck in that either. That's the middle class. If you take everything that a family that enters much less in the end receives, and you take what a family that enters a little more -70 000 euros- stops receiving, in the end, in material and final terms we are generating a huge inequality. And you come here to say you're worried about middle classes? You don't care about middle classes, Mr. Sánchez, you don't even know what it's like to be a middle class. [[Applauds]] You have to pay a person to help you at home, the day care center, the car, the university and the enteric light bill; you are forgetting those who are holding the system. In addition, the social policies you make are amended as a whole because they are ineffective. First, some projects that you put in place, in the end, by bureaucracy and mismanagement do not even reach the people. And, secondly, many of the social measures that you implement and defend in this country are traps of poverty. Because they are only linked to receiving the pay at the end of the month, without linking them to integration or training, nor are they compatible with employment income. [[Applauds]] You hide a lot of people from poverty. Liberals challenge this whole system because it leaves a lot of people disabled, a lot of people unprotected, a lot of people condemned to inherit poverty from parents to children because social policies are not effective. And look, I've told you about the economic sphere, the most important thing for families, but in a debate about the state of the nation, too, many things are valued, because this government of twenty-two ministers is not only the Minister of Economy but the Minister of Finance. Let's talk about the powerful, the powerful. Let's talk about how you colonize state institutions. You are a colonizer of state institutions. Moreover, at an accelerated pace, because, as it is very likely that it will leave the Government, it says: before I leave the Government, I have to control the State. Because you don't like to rule or manage. You like to exercise power in the broadest sense of the term, the oldest, which is to control what happens in a country. That is why I warn you that I have a long list of institutions that you have colonized. The CIS, where he put Tezanos, who was a member of the executive of the Socialist Party. The Office of the Attorney-General of the State, with a person who has gone from minister to attorney-general. And for the annals of infamy will already be his famous phrase: On whom does the Prosecutor's Office depend? In Post Office, the public company with the most employees in Spain, put a person who had no experience at all, but had a merit in Sánchez's eyes, who was his chief of staff. In Paradores he placed a friend who is today his chief of staff. The General Council of the Judiciary, you know you only have to control before you leave, yes or yes, and you have the whole legislature trying. First, with the authoritarian law that we managed to stop in Brussels. Then, removing functions from the General Council of the Judiciary, and this very week - today or tomorrow - you intend to control and change the appointment of the Constitutional Court to see if I leave my posts before we leave Moncloa. Frankly, the worst is that you have not been alone in these misdeeds and have always had the invaluable help of the People's Party. In Spanish Radiotelevision they loaded the whole contest so that, in the end, they end up distributing PNV, Podemos, PP and Socialist Party. It was distributed to the Constitutional Court. In the pandemic they did not agree on anything economic and social, but to renew the Constitutional Court, man, please! That good customs should not be lost between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Court of Auditors. They have left a fetal Court of Auditors to the interests of the coup. They have removed Margarita Mariscal from Ghent, but casually they kept the person who did not see misrepresentation in the process. The Spanish Data Protection Agency. You've had accomplices with the People's Party, but you're tireless and you're going to get more. The INE. Force the director's resignation because he doesn't manipulate economic data at his will. In Indra, a privately-owned listed company, you have fulminated independent advisors no matter whether they comply with European rules or not. National Securities Market Commission. As he admonished you for your interference with Indra, what are you doing? Change the law and try to shorten the president's term. Not to mention the shameful cessations that we already know of my colleague Edmundo Bal, Colonel Pérez de los Cobos in the Civil Guard or public servant Paz Esteban at the head of the CNI. Look, you are the person who has the most power in Spain and you have never had, because you are the president of the Government of Spain - which already gives you a lot of power - and, above all, you have colonized all the institutions you have been able to. Mr Sánchez, since you speak of powerful men who smoke pure, the powerful lord who smokes the purest in Spain is you, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] We need a freer administration that is not controlled by politicians, where judges choose judges, where agencies are led by professional people. We need to shield the Attorney General's Office, eliminate double standards in the administration, an anti-fouling law. I don't know if to call it anti-finger or'anti-Sanchez', but it's true that not only the fingers are from Sanchez. An anti-flowering law so that the Vice-President of Castile and León does not pass, which I believe is two issues that happen to the Vice-President of Castile and León to say those things that he says. One, sectarianism and another, which is very boring because it does not work. [[Laughter]] Then you wonder how many people in Soria practice sex without reproductive purposes. It's just that this man is very bored getting a whole salary. [[Applauds]] We must give that gentleman work urgently. These reforms are only going to be done by the liberals. They will not be done either by the People's Party or by the Socialist Party, let alone by those who have at least demonstrated how they govern. But the third area that I would like to talk to you about, after economic and institutional, is the solvent that you apply every day to the equality and freedom of all Spaniards. It is true that this is not new either, because the fact that Extremadura does not have AVE, the fact that there are many areas of Spain without basic infrastructure is the consequence of decades of divestment to separatism, decades of violation of the principle of equality. But you've already crossed all the lines. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u38	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u39	I told you that you came to Moncloa on the shoulders of the hatred squad to Spain, but it is that you have kept yourself with infamy after infamy, you have had no limit, you have had no scruple: pardons, approach to ages as they had never been made. Last morning Mr Sánchez met with Aragonès in Barcelona. Do you meet with families who are struggling to defend their rights and who have won in the courts? [[Applauds]] No, no. He will meet with those who humiliate, point and trample them. The 25% law, is Sánchez going to see there as president of the government if the sentence is applied? No, no! He's going to tell Illa that she's doing very well because she's made a law with the thugs that what she does is protect those who fail. Because you, instead of protecting judges, families, those who do, protect criminals, convicts, the insufferable. And that does it without any scruple, which is what really amazes me the most. Not only what he does - which is already very serious - but he doesn't move a eyebrow. It's just he doesn't care, he doesn't take any moral notice to do it. And, look, all this that has done in the legislature that we are going to interpret for four years has done, moreover, without a doubt, imposing sectarian and ideological laws. And I'm going to say a very serious thing, Mr. Sanchez. How fast you are for ideological sectarian laws and how you put into a drawer the law of the ELA, of which thousands of families are pending in Spain and that all you need is a little bit of political will, a little bit. [[Applauds]] So I ask you, please, to pull out of the drawer the law of the ELA, which the Spanish families deserve. I can tell you that in this derivation of ideological imposition, what there is is a clear freedom which, moreover, finds parliamentary support of the most diverse. Look, instead of regulating prostitution and stopping looking elsewhere, instead of doing what needs to be done, which is also listening to people who exercise it freely, what you do is trying to ban. And for that you have support, because for that you agree you, you and you, for example, subrogated gestation. [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[Addressing the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] [[Addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] To insult and call goods the children of families who have opted for subrogated gestation agree you, you and you Pornography, the moral narrative. [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[Addressing the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] [[Addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] You also find yourself associates of the most curious. Or, for example, when we talk about freedoms, one part of the Chamber is responsible for bringing euthanasia to the Constitution and the other part of the Chamber is responsible for defending the culture of cancellation. Do you know why liberals are liberals and love freedom? Because we defend freedom not so that others do what is right for us or what we want to do. No, but so that they can do whatever they think is right, according to their morals. [[Applauds]] Obviously with limits, which are the rights of others. That is why we are liberal and you are conservative, because you are dogmatic and want to impose your morals, your ideas, and your beliefs on the rest of the population. And, besides, I'll tell you one thing, too. You very consistent are not. They are certainly hypocrites in many ways. Therefore, that old lady from the visillo, considering that you say that you don't have to eat meat, but you eat the chops at three; that you don't have to take the car, but you go to Falcon to a concert; that you have to live in working-class neighborhoods, but then you buy the largest chalet; those old ladies from the visillo I don't want to imagine what happens from the visillo inside their homes. But, look, this can't fall into an apocalyptic vision. I understand that before Sánchez's vision there are many Spaniards - and I really understand it - who say: before Sánchez, anything. Let Rajoy come back, please. I can understand that. But my reflection for Spain is: Do we really have to settle for lowering Spain's level of demand for the infamous things Sánchez has done? Does it really have to look like the PNV cake because it's less infamous than Sánchez's bakers with Bildu? Do we really have to swallow and assume the Basque coupon because that's always going to be less bad than pardoning thugs? Do we really have to accept the compositions with the nationalism of the Catalan bourgeoisie because, of course, that wouldn't be as bad as surrendering to Rufián? Do we really have to give up regeneration measures simply because we have to get Sanchez out? We, without a doubt, are not going to settle. We are going to continue to fight for Spain, not for a government a little better than Sánchez's, not for the worse version of ZP to come back a Rajoy and go back to the past. No, no, to fight and to look to the future and to have an ambitious, reformed, modern and free Spain, and for that, obviously, we liberals are indispensable. And you know what we aspire to? To those seats that have the third or fourth part of the votes that we have... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u40	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u41	... who end up commanding Spain, go where they belong, according to their vows, and here those who mark the course, those who lead the reforms and those who make the centripetal force are the liberals. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas, for your always constructive words. [[Laughter]] There have already been seventeen appearances that I have made as President of the Government, for we have had various debates of the state of the nation in different ways because, obviously, the pandemic forced us in the debates of the state of alarm to have to appear, to be accountable and to ask to extend that state of alarm in order to defend lives in our country, and, consequently, many of the arguments to which you have referred today from the rostrum because they are arguments that you have been using since the beginning of the legislature. Therefore, the only conclusion I can draw is that the task of re-founding Citizens is still pending. There has been no change and I do not see that you have moved a coma of your argument that, in fact, everything is wrong, that this is the worst government in the history of democracy and that less evil are you liberals. But, really, sir, if you dig a little further into your speech and your arguments, you realize how gross many of them are, Your Honor. First, yesterday from this rostrum, throughout the day and in my first speech, I explained what is the main problem that our country is facing right now, and I said textually that the main challenge that Spain has is called inflation. Therefore, I did not hide at all, at all, the gravity of the situation. Today, moreover, in response to other parliamentary groups, I have again said that it is a bad 10% of inflation that we had in June, but, again, Your Honor, following the simile that I used yesterday from the specialist doctor and the healer, I think it is important to speak clearly to the citizen and to make an honest analysis of what is the diagnosis of the evolution of inflation, of what is its origin and, from there, to see what are the remedies that we put in order to cushion its consequences and to be able to bend the curve of inflation, if I may say so, in the coming months and years, and that clearly has a concertation at international level, at national level and, also, at European level, and that is what the Spanish Government is doing. I have spoken clearly to the citizens, I have told them that I share their frustration, their anguish, and also their anger, because it is mine, because we have been suffering the pandemic crisis for two and a half years, with confinements, with enormous personal, economic, family sacrifices and with the loss of lives that we have had, unfortunately, in our country as a result of the COVID, and now, all of a sudden, a person adds a greater gravity to all that situation, with a war that nobody sought and that nobody expected, except him. With this, Your Honor, indeed, if you have taken the impression, in my mistaken opinion, that I did not want to empathize or did not know how to empathize with the citizens and their problems, that I have not made an honest analysis of the causes of inflation and that I have not moved a strong and strong commitment on the part of the Government of Spain to bend the inflation curve, I believe you have heard a speech completely different from what I did yesterday from this rostrum. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, we can be criticized for a lot of things, but we cannot be criticized for the fact that this government is not making reforms. And that is not something the Spanish Government is saying, as the European Commission itself is saying. Today, we have been fulfilling a year since the European Council approved the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and Spain together with Portugal we were the first two countries to present this plan to the European Commission, and yesterday we again said that we will receive a new disbursement of EUR 12 billion from the Commission, which is basically only to acknowledge that we are complying with the reformist milestones that we have marked and agreed with the European institutions. Therefore, Your Honor, you will be able to criticize the meaning of these reforms, but you cannot criticize the fact that this Government is not making reforms. You qualify the reform of our educational system as little less than ideological or I do not know how you have come to qualify it, but it is not true, Your Honor, it is a reform that we have agreed with the educational community. Like when we did the reform on the law of vocational training, we did it with employers, with trade unions and with the educational community. As we are also promoting university reform with the educational community or, as we are doing, with the social partners in fifteen major agreements where, of course, we have achieved very important milestones recognised by the Commission and which, moreover, I believe, are having a good impact on our labour market, such as the reform of our labour market or also the reform of pensions. With this, Your Honor, I believe that, on the contrary, you will be able to criticize the orientation of these reforms, but not that this Government is not making reforms. And that's where the truth is that I'm surprised, because you call yourself a liberal - it's okay and I respect it, but I have my doubts and it manifests them - but the liberals in Europe, I've told you many times, look to the left and right wing, don't always look to the right and beyond, even to the far right, and there are the results of your experience as well. But, beyond that, just yesterday, when I was in this rostrum talking about a tax reform with two new taxes, one for large financial institutions and one for large energy companies, the prime minister of a liberal government in Brussels, Belgium, has also proposed a tax reform in the same direction. [[Mrs. Arrimadas García makes negative gestures]] Yes, it's true, Mrs. Arrimadas, it's true, a tax on big energy. Find out better. But I do not know very well whether or not you are going to support the tax on big energy and the tax on big financial institutions. Because your argument is as follows, you reproach the Spanish Government that the excess collection we are not returning to the citizens, but, instead, you do not reproach-on the contrary, what you say is: We are not going to support it - that the excess over profits from energy companies is reviewed and some of those over profits are returned to the citizens. [[Applauds]] I don't understand the argument, the state does and the private sector doesn't? First, Your Honor, the Government of Spain said yesterday, we are having a higher collection than expected, 15.5 billion euros in what we have been doing this year - it seems to me that it was until May this year - which is what we are allocating in the royal decree law that we are going to validate, I hope, in the morning - to see if you have the right to approve it or not to approve it and not to do as you did with the previous royal decree - to defend the working middle class of our country. You say this government doesn't defend the working middle class of this country? Is it that the working middle class of this country does not take nearness, raffles or half a distance? Does not the working middle class of our country use the primary care service of the National Health System? Doesn't the working middle class of our country take their children and their daughters to public schools? Does not the working middle class of our country have their children receiving the largest share of scholarships in the history of democracy, more than 2100 million euros? [[Applauds]] You can say we have to improve. Without a doubt, we are open and I said it in my first speech yesterday. Let us see what resolutions you present to this debate on the state of the nation. We are open to dialogue with you, as with the rest of the parliamentary groups. If they have good measures, realistic measures and feasible measures, they will certainly be welcomed. But what can't be said, Your Honor, is that this government is not betting on defending the working middle class because, look, returning to the reflection that it did before, if you really defend the working middle class of this country you have to vote in favour of the tax on the big financial institutions and in favour of the tax on the big energy in this country. They have to. [[Applauds]] I don't understand your obsession with nuclear, really. I don't understand. I do not understand why we do not take precedence in your intervention, when you talk about energy policy, over the commitment that this Government is making to renewable energy, to increase our energy independence with renewable energy and with energy efficiency. I do not know why we are laughing about the demand from this rostrum, on the part of the Spanish Government, that in such a difficult context as a result of the war, the restrictions we are having on the supply of Russian gas to a large part of the European economy or also on the ban on oil imports, I do not understand why you shirk and trivialise the demand that we have to be much more efficient in the use of energy, and that we also have to open the door to energy savings. But why do you trivialize it and frivolize it? You frivolize him, Your Honor. You frivolize it and banalize it and it seems to me that it is a mistake, because we will have to do it. I believe that yesterday I did not hide the uncertainty and scenarios that we can find ourselves from here to the next few months; on the contrary, I shared them with all of you, with the rest of the citizens and, indeed, I said that the Spanish Government is taking an example. Or is it not an example of having already approved a 1000 million euro energy saving plan a few weeks ago? Or is it not an example of what I announced yesterday that we are going to put economic resources in order to boost self-consumption even more, making it more present in public centres and in that self-consumption shared also with small businesses and housing? Your Honor, I think we need to be aware of the difficult moment we are going through, that we can go through the decision of a single person to strangle the whole of Europe and, therefore, open up honest debates about the need to be more efficient and boost energy saving without falling into frivolities and, without a doubt, into rather trivial analyses compared to what we have ahead. With regard to nuclear policy, Your Honor, I would like to say a few things to you. The first, that the timetable for the closure of nuclear power plants we have agreed with the sector and we have agreed with the companies. If there are no companies that right now consider it financially sustainable to open more nuclear power plants. What the Spanish Government is doing, as much as the international community and also Europe are doing, is working safely, anticipating scenarios. You set France as an example. Do you not know that right now France has 55 % of its nuclear capacity stopped as a result of the risks and, of course, of the review they are having to fully ensure their safety? 55 %. I repeat, Your Honor, 55% of France's nuclear capacity is paralysed. Finally, let us be aware that nuclear is not the panacea and that this Government is taking the best of decisions, which is to bet on green energy which, by the way, is immensely abundant in our country: photovoltaic energy or wind energy. We, of course, are going to move in those coordinates. I have told you on some other occasions that we are not going to use this energy crisis as an excuse not to continue with our energy transition, among other issues because by reflecting on what is happening with the heat waves in June, now in July, and with the fires that we are witnessing and that are suffering a large part of our population - by the way, in Extremadura too - I think it is important not only to strengthen the capacities for response and fire prevention, but also to strengthen everything that has to do with climate policy. [[applause]] I jump to Extremadura just to tell him two things. The first is that next Monday we will launch the first milestone of high speed in Extremadura. [[Applauds]] We will count on the presence of the head of state. And next year we will complete the electrification of the same. I will also tell you, Your Honor, that within the framework of the European funds not only the city of Sagunto, but also Extremadura will have a giant factory that, for the first time in the history of Extremadura, will allow it to reindustrialize in green and be a very important part of the value chain of the connected electric vehicle, thanks to the commitment of Extremadura and also to the commitment of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] I cannot agree more with you that we need to strengthen, and much more so, youth policy. It's just that I completely agree, Your Honor. I also believe that all administrations must do everything and more to strengthen youth policies. Because, indeed - you are right - there are many reports of serious institutions, both international and European and Spanish, which have often criticized the few redistribution policies we have for young people. This Government has been humbly trying to reverse that situation, Mrs. Arrimadas. What if not the minimum living income? Minimum living income is a commitment to eradicating child poverty in our country. You deny me that evidence? The data are that there are 1.3 million people perceiving that minimum living income right now, and more than 500,000 are boys and girls. Isn't that a policy for childhood and adolescence in our country? Of course it is, and I'd like you to recognize it, Your Honor. This is an example of many others being launched by the Government of Spain. Or that we have raised the scholarships to two thousand and thirty million euros, the largest share of scholarships in the history of our democracy, is not a bet for youth? Or is it that the announcement I made yesterday of incorporating the learning of a new language into our educational system, from primary to compulsory education, which is computational thinking, is not a bet for youth and their future? Or is it that the announcement that I have made to reinforce with 100 euros more per month the fellows and fellows who are now receiving this assistance from the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, is not a youth policy? Or is it that, Your Honor, adopting a housing law for the first time in the history of our democracy is not a youth policy? Or is it that the adoption of a State Housing Plan 2022-2025, which aims at an investment of 10 billion euros, or the rental plan, which aims to reach 100,000 rented houses - right now we already have 60,000 rented houses - is not a commitment decided by the youth? Or is it that the adoption of a labour reform - and I also thank the citizens for their support for that labour reform - which is mainly benefiting women and young people, who have been the most precarious groups until this labour reform, is not a policy for youth, as is the interprofessional minimum wage? If it is the young people who, together with many other social groups, are paying the most, that interprofessional minimum wage, is it not a youth policy? We can say that we can do much more, but, of course, that this Government is committed to youth and that we are putting youth at the centre of all public policies, I believe, Your Honor, that is so. [[Applauds]] See if the equalization of paternity and maternity leave is not a policy in favour of birth, now that you have taken that picture back to me about the pyramid of the population. That has been done by this Government. This government has done so, Your Honor. You too should recognize that so that at least that analysis and such a catastrophic balance that makes my Government's action have some credibility, because you do not recognize anything good that this Government has done. What else can I tell you? I will tell you, Your Honor, that the law of the ELA is in parliamentary procedure, that no one is blocking it, Your Honor; no one is blocking it. The government is not blocking. It is working in the area of legislative power and we are therefore waiting for you - all the parliamentary groups - to complete your work. I believe, Your Honor, that in the background, beyond the criticisms you always make of whether we colonize, that if judges have to choose judges... in the end, Your Honor, what there is, in the background, is a very wide difference between what you represent, which is a minority right-wing political organization in this country, as to how to respond to the economic crisis we have experienced, first with COVID and now with the crisis resulting from Putin's invasion of Ukraine. And ours is a social-democratic answer, Your Honor. I know you don't like it, but it's a social-democratic response; a response that has also shown that with equity, solidarity and social justice you can respond much more efficiently to economic crises. Yesterday I was referring to some data: in fifteen months we have recovered the previous levels of employment we had in the pandemic. With the neoliberal formulas that were raised by political choices of their space, such as the right, conservatism, it took almost twelve years to recover those levels of employment. Here are the data that show that this progressive way of responding to the crisis is much more effective and much more equitable. [[Applauds]] But it did not take away the seriousness of the situation, Your Honor, it did not take away a single apex; nor did it take away the problem of inflation that we have in our country, in Europe and in the world. There it is, Your Honor. But it has to be acknowledged in its analysis that this problem of so-called inflation is suffering all European economies. There are eight countries above us in Europe with higher inflations, there are sixty-five countries in the world with higher inflation than ours, and this is not a consolation, it is a reality. My commitment to the citizens of Spain - I said it yesterday and I reaffirm it again today - is to go for all, to defend the working middle class and to implement all the political mechanisms, both at national and European and international level, so that we can soon have peace in Europe and, secondly - no doubt - a controlled inflation that will enable us to strengthen economic recovery and job creation. You haven't talked about job creation, Your Honor. It is true that we have to focus on those things that are wrong and see how we can solve them; however, today, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the action of this government - also - but above all to the private sector, employers and trade unions, we have the greatest employment data in our history: fortunately, more than 20 million Spaniards and Spaniards are working and, fortunately, many of them with indefinite contracts. I say that something will have to see this government so disastrous in its eyes precisely in ensuring that we have such historical and hopeful employment data on the present and future evolution of our economy. [[Applause of the Socialist Group and of the members of the Government, Members of the European Parliament, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I am going to ask you not to put the autopilot in the reply to our group to tell us what you tell other opposition groups. We can't afford it. You cannot go out and insinuate that we have had no sense of state in the worst years that Spanish democracy has seen in recent decades. You can't insinuate, you can't say. Do you know why, Mr. Sanchez? Do you know the enormous political and personal cost that has cost us, and that it has cost me as president of the party to have been responsible in the most difficult moments of the pandemic or in the most difficult moments of the crisis? Do you know what it is to come here knowing that what we did was right, knowing that we were supporting and even pushing and negotiating measures that were going to be good to save lives or save jobs, but doing so knowing that you were the one in Moncloa? Do you know the enormous personal and political cost that this has entailed? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u47	Now, what I'm convinced of is that you don't know and you won't know how well you sleep at night with a calm conscience knowing that you do the hardest, but the right thing. [[Applauds]] There is no person in Spain, really, I guarantee you, there may be like me, but not that I want you more than I want you to leave Moncloa. I wish this government had very few TVs left, but we're going to work to make those TVs the least bad news for the Spaniards. That is an abysmal difference between our parliamentary group and those who are quietly waiting for the Government to fall as a ripe fruit, and, moreover, surely assuming that in order to reach the Government in Spain the Socialists have to ruin it again. We have never done that, nor will we, because it would have been much easier to spend three or four years quietly there saying no to everything, charging the salary of Members of the opposition at the end of the month and not getting wet at all. So I do not allow you to imply that our parliamentary group is like the rest of the opposition or that we have had no sense of state; I will not allow it! [[Applauds]] Secondly, of course, there are some measures that you have been chairing for four years that we can share, of course; if many of them have been negotiated by us, we have improved them, we have voted for them. The problem is how you face the needs of Spanish society, how you face a crisis, how you face one of the problems that is the constant blackmail of your government partners, which makes this country unequal and that there are more opportunities in this country depending on where it is born, simply because you always depend on those of the handful of votes overrepresented in this Parliament. In addition, you ask me to give you my support to measures that your minister does not know about. They asked the minister this morning about the measures and she stuttered saying they have to see them. You can see the improvisation, Mr. Sanchez. Some of them are measures that you yourself criticized just a few months ago because you said you couldn't, that would create legal uncertainty. I will acknowledge one thing, Mr Sánchez, one of the measures you announced yesterday - some - is true that it is not going to be Spain the only country that is going to impose them, but what are other countries doing? They are accompanying themselves with reforms of silence, of tax cuts, of elimination of duplicity. Mr Draghi - I am sure you said throughout yesterday and today that some of the measures taken by Draghi - has made an unprecedented reduction in the tax burden in Italy and a battery of reforms measures also unprecedented. [[shows a document]] So, what do we need? Facing a crisis in a much better way than you are doing. Besides, it tells me what an obsession I have with nuclear. Do you, when you go to Europe, tell the members of the Commission and the European Parliament that if I am obsessed with nuclear, or are they the ones who have incorporated them - we, all Europeans - nuclear energy into green taxonomy because it is needed as a transitional energy while promoting renewable energy? I think you come here with a story and two excuses. It has not come with self-criticism or serious proposals, it has come with two excuses. One, the one of the powerful, and that's why he needs the tax on the banks; that's why he needs to make the story of David versus Goliath as poor. I'm telling you, it's not going to work out for you, because if there's anyone unbelievable in Spain to settle in that story, it's you. Second, he has the excuse of bad luck: It's just that I've been hit by a pandemic, the eruption of a volcano, a rain of Sahara mud, the Putin war... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u49	Mr Sánchez, I do not know, if you really believe that the problem is not one of mismanagement or that you have mismanagement, but that you are in bad luck, do not go for mismanagement, go by gafe, go with the evil eye outside the Presidency of the Government, Mr Sánchez! [[Applauds]] The law of ALS, this is something very serious. Talk to the entities and associations representing the patients of ALS, Mr Sánchez. You know perfectly well who's blocking the law of ALS, you know perfectly well. For us, it's a problem that suffers thousands of families and it's the worst thing that can happen to you in life, to suffer from such a disease. Therefore, you can pick up the phone - just as you pick up the phone to do many other things, as a powerful man that you pick up the phone and tell your people to stop unlocking the law of ALS and get it out of a drawer. [[Applauds]] Faced with this - I repeat -, there is an alternative. You told me that you doubted that we would be liberal, because you being liberal marks it depending on whether you are supported or not. First, do you know who has no doubt that we are liberal? European Liberals. When we go to the ALDE Congress, when we go to Dublin - just a few days ago I was in Brussels with the European leaders of ALDE - there is no doubt about who are liberals. I would love to be able to agree some measures with the left, some measures with the right, I would love to see a social democratic party similar to the European social democratic parties in Spain. Can you tell me one country in Europe, one country alone, where the Social Democratic Party has relied on terrorist heirs to come to power? Can you tell me a case? One? [[Applauds]] Because that's what I found when he tried to reach out to the Social Democratic parties. I see other countries that are ruled by social-democratic parties and are doing it better than you. I defend the liberal ideology and fight many of the social democrat dogmas, but do not cast the representativeness that all the Social democrats in Europe are doing what you are doing, because no Social democrat in Europe is doing what you are doing, and that is why you are supported by those who are supported. You are going through Europe to explain what your parliamentary support is and it is that you do not give credit, do not give credit, Mr Sánchez. So lessons from whom we agreed, I think you're not to give lessons. Finally, you have made a debate about the state of the nation without answering one of the main questions that have led you to La Moncloa: how you have been able to rely on the support you chose to get to La Moncloa, the same ones that you said you were not going to use. Your problem, Mr. Sanchez, is not your ideology. The problem, Mr. Sánchez, is that you have no ideology, is that you do whatever it takes to achieve your goals! That's the problem. It's not that I have a social-democratic ideology, it's that in campaign he says with Bildu: I'm going to charge myself with the Ministry of Defense, and then he does the opposite, and it doesn't matter. It is their lack of ideology that is worrying for the country. And I ask you: are you really going to leave here without explaining to the Spaniards why there are convicts in this Chamber who are allowing you to continue in Moncloa and who are giving in to them? Convicted! You have had little decency to settle the law of demoralization with the band Bildu, who are the heirs of ETA, and to do so in the same week as the 25th anniversary of the vile murder of Miguel Ángel Blanco or the 25th anniversary of the liberation of OrtegaLara. [[applause]] Look, the only thing Bildu has to say about the transition, the only thing I want Bildu to say about the transition is that they confess to the hundreds of murders that are still unresolved and victims that are unrepaired in Spain. That's all the gentlemen of Bildu would have to say. You have allowed Bildu to extend the franchise until 1983, staining even the governments of Felipe González. That's why I'm telling you that your problem is not social-democratic ideology, it's that you don't have ideology, you don't have scruples. It is a shame that you did not extend that law to 1984, because in 1984, do you know what happened, Mr. Sánchez? Do you know what happened, Mr. Sanchez, in 1984? That her partner, Mrs Aizpurua, was condemned for apologizing for terrorism, for using a protera leaflet to exalt the ages. That happened in 1984. And finally, as the president of the government does not say, I will tell you that, although Sánchez will never have scruples and Bildu will never have ethics, the Spaniards will never lose our memory. And I don't care what infamous law Bildu gets Mr. Sánchez out for four parliamentary endorsements. What I can say, and I think I speak on behalf of a majority of Spaniards, is that for Spain.. - yes, in this yes, you will see, you will see -, for the Spaniards and most of the Spaniards, Mrs Aizpurua and her colleagues in Batasuna will always remain authentic sons of ETA. [[rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, I have told you on some other occasion: I do not understand that personal pollution you have towards me, I do not understand it. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Oh!-Laughter]] I don't understand; I mean, you might logically disagree with my policies, as you do, but I don't understand that hatred you have. [[Rumors]] Yes, because you say: do you know the personal cost that we have had of having a sense of state by voting for states of alarm or other measures such as labor reform? But if that had to be a pride as a politician, passing measures and laws for the benefit of the citizenry. [[applause]] I don't quite understand the argument, I don't understand the argument. Furthermore, I have acknowledged in my first speech the things that your Parliamentary Group has done well; I thank you. I thank you for voting in favour of labour reform. I thank you for voting in favour of the extensions of the alarm states. We have also had to negotiate with you some things in order to be able to take them forward; that is, you have not told us either: you have the votes to extend the states of alarm. But does that also say something on our part, or does it just say good things on yours? [[Laughter]] You'll have to say something good about us, won't you? [[Laughter and applause]] It's just a little absurd. But I recognize that, Mrs Arrimadas, and I would also like to thank you for the fact that, with that sense of state that you have always shown in your speeches - let me be a little sarcasm - tomorrow confirms the royal decree law on economic and social measures in the face of war in Ukraine, because I believe that they are good measures, Your Honor, they are good measures. For example, freeze the price of butane. It is a good measure to incorporate a 50% bonus into travel allowances for nearby, rolling stock and half-distance, which we are going to climb to 100 percent. It is good to increase 30% of public transport for other territorial and local authorities. It is a good measure, I think, to extend until 31 December this bonus of 20 cents per litre of petrol or diesel. You may say that there are some measures with which you are more or less in agreement, well, we are open to hearing in your resolutions what your proposals are, but, in any case, Your Honor, I believe that the balance sheet, the package of measures that we are putting in place from the Spanish Government is very important. From the point of view of the amount, I recall: EUR 30 billion in what we have been doing for the past year - in the last year - 2,3 points of gross domestic product in order to cope with the effects of inflation, and in particular EUR 15 billion, which are the ones that we are going to deploy by 31 December precisely to try to cushion this so-called price escalation that results in this war conflict that we are suffering in Ukraine. I do not quite understand your criticism of the tax reduction that other European countries are doing. We are doing what other governments in Europe are doing, and those governments in Europe are doing what we are doing from the Spanish Government. Yes, it's true, Your Honor, believe me on this issue, even if it's for once. We're doing the same thing. We are making selective cuts - selective, not generalized; nobody is doing them in Europe, nobody is doing them in the world - selective and not generalized, precisely to cushion the effects of the crisis, of inflation. Or is the 80 % reduction in taxes linked to the bill of light not a tax reduction, Your Honor? Or is it that lowering tolls to the intensive gas industry is not a tax reduction? We even talk about hydrocarbons on many occasions. These 20 cents of euro that we are applying to the consumption of petrol and diesel what it has is precisely an impact more or less very similar to that tax reduction. Or are we not finally making proposals that have to do with the thermal social bonus, the electric social bonus...? In short, Your Honor, I do not want to repeat myself in the policies we are doing, because they are all very similar to those that other governments in Europe are making with different political signs, not only from the left, but also liberal and conservative. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you again, Liberal governments, just one in Belgium yesterday announced the adoption of a tax on big energy. [[Applauds]] Are you going to approve that tax here in Spain and the tax on large financial institutions, yes or no? Answer that question, Your Honor. I don't understand why they're not clear. They do not hide - as the conservative bench, also the People's Party, always does - in which they will wait to see exactly what the realization of this tax is. Please tell me whether or not you agree with the philosophy that the state is returning citizens through targeted aid to the affected sectors, through selective tax rebates to the working middle class, protecting vulnerable groups with this increased revenue as a result of our country's job creation and strong economic growth; if that is being done by the General Administration of the State, tell me whether or not you agree that large financial institutions and large energy companies are doing so. This Government agrees that they too will contribute to the economic effort that is being made by all, which is being borne by the citizens of our country. [[Applauds]] On the law of the ELA, Your Honor, I insist, I am the Executive Power in this House, and therefore respect the work of the Legislative Power. [[Mr. Gutiérrez Vivas: The Bureau]] You talk to the representatives of the rest of the parliamentary groups, at last, talk to the parliamentary groups. The commitment of the Government of Spain is clear. Look, this law of the ALS when it's being processed, Your Honor? When there is a progressive coalition government and a progressive majority in this House. [[Rumors]] No, no, Your Honor, that's it, that's it! As has happened on many occasions throughout the democratic history of this country. Here there has been a law of voluntary termination of pregnancy when there has been a progressive majority in this House; here there has been a law in favour of euthanasia and dignified death when there has been a progressive majority in this House; here there has been a law of recognition of the rights of LGBTI people when there has been a progressive majority in this House. [[applause]] [[applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen - and in this, Mrs Arrimadas, I recognize that you have a much more open view than the classical right - I think you must recognise, as I do with your parliamentary group, that in those debates you have allies in what represents the progressive bench of this House; you have no opponents, no enemies, no people who hinder, on the contrary, there are empathetic people who agree with your appreciation, and I understand that there will be a parliamentary debate - I am not in that parliamentary debate - and I hope that we can move forward that law soon. You have done a final reflection, Your Honor, on social democracy, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, sanchismo, in short, all these things that you always bring to the fore when you speak. I would ask for a little respect, really, not just for myself, which I believe is the least, but a little respect for an organization, which has a hundred and forty years of life and which has brought many good things to this country, before the dictatorship, during the dictatorship, in exile, being persecuted by the Franco dictatorship and from democracy. [[Rumors]] Yes, Your Honor. I was told by the Minister of Finance - who follows Andalusian politics more than I, because she is Andalusian - that there is also a law of democratic memory in Andalusia, which you did not touch when you ruled in Andalusia, which goes until 1982, and you did not say anything or change it. [[the Minister of Finance makes affirmative gestures]] What is the problem that you have and that you have the bench on the right? That is what I said yesterday to Mrs Gamarra: you are trying to confront victims: the victims of terrorism with the victims of Francoism. [[Rumors]] Yeah, they do that. [[Applauds]] And I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that our country, unfortunately, after Cambodia, is the country with the largest number of forced missing persons: 114,000 people, with their families. Therefore, this Government, and I, as secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, will no doubt carry out this political commitment, and of course what the State is going to do is take responsibility for exhuming and finding the corpses of many relatives who are still in many parts of our country. [[Strong applause]] That, Your Honor, is not to look with grudge at the past, no, that is to make our democracy better. And to make our democracy better, Your Honor, is also, of course, to condemn the vile crimes that ETA committed during those more than forty years of existence that ETA had, but it is also to acknowledge that ten years ago the terrorist gang disappeared. ETA no longer exists, Your Honor. I have some bad news to tell you and the right-hand bench: ETA no longer exists. [[Prolonged applause]] And it does not exist thanks to many democrats, of course, thanks to many state security forces and bodies, thanks to many citizens in Euskadi and the rest of the country, thanks to many people who worked to end the violence. And also thanks to two presidents: one in Euskadi, Patxi López, and another in the State, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and a vice president like Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, who worked for peace in Euskadi and Spain. [[applause]] [[applause continues]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the members of the Government, stood up, addressed to Mr López Álvarez.- The President of the Government addresses Mr López Álvarez's seat and gives himself a hug]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, as we say. Seeing the absences on the benches of the right, I would say that for them the debate is already over yesterday, but it is not over. [[A Member: We're here, aren't we?-A Member: Hello!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u55	Yes, yes, I see that there are some, but I see a few absences; for starters, of their highest representatives, but fine, here everyone does what they consider appropriate. [[Rumors]] It's just an observation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a dialogue. He has the floor who is in the gallery, and it is not a dialogue. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u57	President, time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u58	Time's running out, Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. In my opinion, Mr President, it is striking that in this debate it seems that media attention is more focused not on what you say, but on what we can say by your parliamentary partners, rather on measuring the government's temporary survival horizon than on the expectation that illusion will be generated from government action. A big contrast to the investiture debate two and a half years ago. Then everything was to be done, starting with a new government in its composition. It is desirable that we take as a reference where we come from to know where we are. And I was then wondering whether the government would act in the right way in three areas, and I quote literally: Will they have the courage to find solutions to the major structural problems in democratic terms? Can we understand the complexity of the moment and respect the mechanisms of exchange of information and positions so that we all feel affluent in the development of the legislature? Will the action of the new government respect the autonomous competences? Because too many times I've seen you stay in water with drunken commitments and good wills. And he added that, as in Bourne's film The Ultimatum, my number one rule is to expect the best and predict the worst. What I said, Mr President, remains valid, now more than ever. As I feared - and as Minister Bolaños advanced last Sunday in an interview - in his speech yesterday you announced measures that you have not previously contrasted with your parliamentary partners, once again, as if you had absolute majority. It has failed for the umpteenth time to comply with the first point of our investment agreement, which committed it to maintaining a smooth and constant communication with the PNV, giving sufficient advance notice of the projects and initiatives that the Government wishes to promote. I was more afraid that you would make a pro-active speech than a reflexive and objective one, that I would continue to think that by throwing more flints in the form of specific measures to the boiler of the government locomotive would work better. More wood! as Groucho Marx shouted, not to mention that he was running out of cars on the train. You probably think that the best reaction to a drop in the polls is to present a series of measures without thinking about the consequences that could have on your parliamentary stability, which we will have to discuss under pressure so as not to derail the government. I'll tell you one more time: Just look at the next curve, not to mention the next one on the road. You'll tell me what it's gonna change for, if everything finally ends up being approved by the courts. There will be few exceptions. Given the conjuncture, with a government looking back, PSOE with Podemos and those of Podemos among themselves; with a government in internal disagreement, which air their respective parliamentary groups through proposals of law they present weekly; with parliamentary partners who see how they do not address the Basque and Catalan structural problems, without, on the other hand, boosting their programmes, this week what we thought was to stop to reflect and announce previously agreed objectives with all the groups that need to complete the mandate. Yesterday it gave the impression that it offered us a package of unstructured measures, as if it had made a collection of ideas by ministries, a sort of improvisation in the way of the one not at the 5% drop in VAT of electricity, which at two weeks was yes. Frankly, some of the measures that he announced unilaterally invade the statutory sphere, others condition its development and decision-making, and others are not known what scope they can have. The announcement of some of them immediately involved a stir in the Stock Exchange. It is true that, at this exceptional juncture, there are companies that have far greater profit margins than usual, and my group is not at the front line against the idea of temporary deductions from those benefits, but it cannot be done in any way, without considering a number of variants. Firstly, there must be guarantees that the user will not be affected again. On the other hand, they should take into account that some of these industries have already been recorded or are going to be recorded by this Executive with measures taken previously or under way, such as the sustainability fund, for example. And they will have to meet the requirements and limitations that Europe imposes in order not to have scares, with decisions wrongly made, because it rains on wet. In any case, we believe that the difference in profits must be made, because it cannot be taxed twice by the same taxable fact and, above all, any ruler must know that there are sectors of the industrial economic fabric that are very delicate. Dialogue with those affected is essential if they do not want to put at risk public-private investments that today become essential to transform the economic model and are reflected in the recovery and resilience programme or to avoid offshoring temptations. I insist, you have to be able to explain the motives and generate complicity. Each game in chess can produce a series of chain consequences that are not easily controllable, and in some areas of governance decisions cannot be made solely for ideological but management reasons. Beyond that, there is obviously the whole issue of conciliation. The measures announced yesterday, in our opinion, go more into the economic than the structural ones, and not necessarily to fight against inflation, because some of them even stimulate consumption, and this worries us, among other things because the vast majority of those taken so far in the same sense start to become structural over time, and that, you know as well as I do, is not sustainable, less in a state with a debt equivalent to 117.8% of GDP in the first quarter. However, he did not mention, and he drew my attention, fundamental structural measures which Europe has forced, such as the second part of the pension reform - which, I remember, are indexed to the CPI, an index whose most optimistic forecasts, in your opinion, will end at 6.5% - or as the tax reform - which seems to have left parked - with the aim of achieving sufficient permanent income, apart from conjunctures, to contribute to the creation of fiscal margins for future crises and to meet the current risks, the high public debt and its vulnerability to rising interest rates, because, certainly, the inflationary situation will continue, and it will do so because it is impossible to see when the end of the war in Ukraine will be. In the meantime, and despite the rise in prices, we were amazed, after the COVID, at a kind of new time in the Charleston, the crazy twenties, with crowded airports and crazy consumption, as if the world were over tomorrow. Pepe Álvarez, the leader of UGT, has already said: Let's go punch, let's enjoy the summer. Let us hope that this is not premonitional, but few jokes, for we have already seen how a country, Sri Lanka, has collapsed. It is certainly not comparable to Spain, it is not - we already know the management that the Sri Lankan Government has done - but it is also true that in Europe, fortunately, mutual coverage is provided. In view of the rise in the Spanish risk premium, the ECB has acted to provide security and to limit escalation. We cannot lose sight of things that are happening in other latitudes. We must remain vigilant, and I acknowledge that it is not a simple challenge, President, because the option of turning your back on Ukraine is not valid, in which I agree with you. Some have not yet learned that geopolitics has changed its axis altogether. The war in Ukraine goes beyond a dispute over a territory; it is a struggle over values of choice between autocracy and democracy, whether the European sphere and traditional democracies will be displaced from the centre of the game board and at the dawn of what others decide. If Ukraine is defeated or if Putin, in his case, makes his people believe that it has been, the threat of aggression will continue on the eastern European flank and we will all be at the dawn of Russia's interests, which will try to destabilise us economically. And authoritarian regimes, in turn, will be consolidated, expanding their liberal principles by all means, intervening and weakening democracies. And, that, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow it. We must combine the two situations. That is why we must already think of medium-term measures, without prejudice to the necessary interim measures; they should in any case be non-generalised, selective, targeted at specific groups and in the long term. We do not have the luxury of being wrong about the object to which we are referring. And it will also have to be effective with European money. It is urgent to expedite your processing, which is not as idyllic as you reflected yesterday. For example, in the case of the PERTE, the crown jewel, yesterday assumed the approval of the eleven plans, but do you know what the economic volume of the calls that have been made today, and not all have been resolved, by the way? A fifth, just EUR 6653 million, out of a total of EUR 33 188 million. And I'm telling you, not all of those 6600 and peaks have been solved. President, if everything goes on wheels, if projects are to be approved, except for exceptions, if we seem to cooperate easily, reaching agreements and fulfilling commitments, why do I have that feeling of discomfort week after week? A sense of being constantly perfying with the Government, of having to continually save obstacles. Yes, there are agreements with our group that go ahead, that I accept, and also legislation that is approved with our support, often because of the need to give a chance to the legislature, sometimes out of goodwill, even though we are not compliant, and others thanks to the action of a handful of people in your administration - which I can count on the fingers of one hand - who are aware of what the government is playing at, people in which, for the most part, you probably don't even repair. I thank those people deeply for their attitude. And yes, there are things that are being done. There are budgetary agreements that they are implementing, but always after insisting on our part constantly, over and over again, with the feeling that the Government does not consider the concerns of some of its partners to be priorities, with the impression that there is a lack of political impetus to take them on and prioritize them on the agenda. That is why, Mr President, there are also other things that are not being fulfilled. I will refer only to those signed by yourself in the investment agreement. To begin with, you are committed to transferring the outstanding statutory powers to the Basque Autonomous Community. You fixed the calendar unilaterally - which we accept - and then you have failed to do so properly, so that we have already exceeded all the set dates. Every time a transfer is made by the Basque Government, its Ministry of Public Administration acts as a mailbox and then forgets the subject. It forgets the ministry and forgets the Moncloa, which it looks like. In the same document, you publicly undertook with us to proceed, within six months, to transfer the traffic skills to the Foral Community of Navarre, with the same content and extent as those carried out at the time to the Basque Autonomous Community. You signed it with your hand and handwriting. It's been two years since your engagement and we're still exactly the same. And this is unacceptable, Mr President, for many excuses to be sought. You committed yourself to opening up channels to promote Euskadi's international representation in sport and culture. Not only has he not done anything in this sense - despite our patience and discretion - but he has introduced a bill for sport which, as it is configured, is a turn of the nut more against that demand felt widely by our people. And a very important matter, Mr President, after a long discussion between us on the most appropriate wording, we agreed to - I read literally - promote through dialogue between parties and institutions the necessary reforms to bring the structure of the State into line with the recognition of territorial identities, agreeing, where appropriate, the necessary legal changes, in order to find a solution both to the dispute in Catalonia and to the negotiation and agreement of the new statute of the Basque Autonomous Community, taking into account the national feelings of belonging. This is what you signed. It was the most important challenge he had at the beginning of the legislature. You have done nothing to deal with it, and do not make me excuse the COVID or the volcano, because there have been ways to go slowly and discreetly in search of solutions and we have commented on them, both for Catalonia and for Euskadi. You haven't risked anything, though. You will surely think that the Basque and Catalan claim and their desire to be recognized as nations will deflate over time. Nothing further from reality. Do you know how much you devoted to this matter in your speech yesterday? There was another Member who reminded him of it: a phrase, a raquitic phrase and not to say anything. I will tell you more, in fact, you have taken advantage of this crisis of the COVID and so on to take the opposite path. With the excuse of so-called governance - the term of a new wedge - they have come to regulate and condition de facto areas reserved for the autonomous communities so far. They have extended the use and influence of sectoral conferences, conditioning the action of exclusive self-government of the competent autonomous communities. They are de facto reinterpreting Title VIII of the Constitution, without reforming it, in an increasingly centralist direction and, with the excuse of digitization, they are invading and regulating competences that are not theirs. Every time you have had an election appearance, whether Madrid, Castile and León or Andalusia, you have hidden from your Basque and Catalan partners as if you were fleeing the plague, assuming that our company could tarnish your election result. He's completely ignored us. Did it do you any good? No, no, You see we're not your problem, we're not. Get those complexes off of me, every time you get close to an election... no, we're not the problem. I can't be looking for the votes of some of the partners who later, at times, refuse. Moreover, President, I dare say that if you face as a statesman the problem of the structure of the State or other dragged from the Transition and which have been parked, your figure and that of your party would grow. If he did at last, his electorate could see him as someone who is not in two waters, frightened by the right voice of his adlaters on too many occasions. Because even if you say that your government is uncomfortable for some and is persecuted by factual powers, it does not really give them any terror. At the time of truth, you have neither dared to address the Basque and Catalan national question, nor to change the Official Secrets Act - which we are waiting for - nor to limit the king's inviolability, nor to bring to the last consequences and purify the political dye police actions promoted by the People's Party - denouncing and anti-democratic actions - beyond the makeup of a Commission in Congress in which the appearances were clearly limited. By the way, we can now complain about political, media and legal montages to destroy your image with lies. Looks like they found the gunpowder. What would former President Plus or Mr Trias or the Catalan independenceist political movement in general have to say then? What would Basque democratic nationalism have to say, which was being tried to identify and equate with ETA by journalistic means and right-wing figures and leaders or even in documents signed to the left and right wing as the anti-terrorist pact? Mr President, if you will face these great challenges instead of taking steps forward and others behind you, instead of weighing you so much on autonomous issues and what the media tell you, instead of doing or having nothing to do with us every time an election meeting comes, I am convinced that it would be better for you. Perhaps that is precisely what your electorate expects, that it will be transformative and that it will not huddle before the media and the right, because, if not, we will continue to saecula saeculorum with the Villarejos always, we will continue without knowing what happened to Zabalza, we will continue with an abnormal situation in the European framework, with a head of state who is absolutely unpunished before the courts, and we will continue with the Basque and Catalan question unsolved and generating tensions. Mr President, at this point, how do you intend to reach the government and maintain a majority in a forthcoming legislature? Or don't you care? Or haven't you thought about it? If you do not take care of your parliamentary relations, who are you going to reach Moncloa after the next elections? Because, as the polls predict, you will have to continue to rely on the same formations that we gave you support in the investiture. Unless, of course, what he's trying to do is go to a big coalition with the PP. If not, if you will have to continue with us, what will you do to keep us as partners? The 'you can't afford it' as an argument for continuing to support it, man, is a very unencouraging reason. It is true that the messages sent from the PP are desolating and do not invite optimism or rapprochement. It is true that the growing economic challenge we face seems to have in the main opposition party to an agitator who was already thinking not about recovery, but that we are on the eve of a recession that can open the doors of power. They have refused to accompany the smallest State commitments in a strategy of total confrontation, of unbridled struggle for wear, contempt and discredit. Not far are the times of hyperboles or accusations of an opposition, turned into a crusade in the square of Columbus, with retahíla of felonies included. It is true that they remain in confrontation as an alternative and are dangerously aligned with VOX in numerous initiatives, even accepting them as partners in their administration. Mr Feijoo freed the Andalusian President to do so if he deemed it necessary. All that is true, we are aware, but he 'cannot afford it, you have no alternative to me' as an argument - I insist - is little encouraging and intelligent; of course, he does not generate any illusion or force or adhesion. In fact, it is you who cannot afford it; you cannot afford to dispense with the partners. What are you going to do to make them feel motivated to support? And I'm closing up. I will tell you through a saying, so that, through the anecdote, you can remember it more easily in the coming months. You know the rural world is wise and I like it a lot. This time I will not use a Basque saying, but of my mother's village, Canamaque, in Soria. It is well known that the day of Corpus Christi, also called in some places the day of the Lord, is commemorated three weeks after the day of Ascension. Occasionally, it is three weeks that it takes to pollute the eggs until they hatch. The saying says thus: Whoever wants to have chickens on the day of the Lord, let him rain on the day of Ascension. Point it out, Mr President, you have the time to extend this term if you want things to go well on the Lord's day of the next investiture. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. His speech has begun with a reflection that seems very pertinent to me, because, in fact, we are talking about a very important debate, the debate on the state of the nation, which has not been held for seven years, since 2015. It is true that we have had many very intense debates throughout this legislature, the product of the pandemic and of the response we had to give, but to see that in the conservative bench, which has always demanded and demanded the debate on the state of the nation, its main leaders are not present in the whole debate, not only when they speak or when the government responds, but when all the parliamentary groups intervene, it also says a lot about how to understand Spain, understand and practice politics. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, I have a somewhat different view of you, if I may, in the management that the Spanish Government has made with Euskadi, with the parliamentary partners present here. With our difficulties, because, of course, we are a minority coalition government - it is 155 seats that initially support the coalition executive - we are obliged to try to find alliances with your ladies and gentlemen, with the various parliamentary groups. You have asked three questions. The first, whether or not we are solving structural problems; I understand that it speaks more about the territorial question than about the economic background and modernization of our economy, but then you can answer me more specifically. The second, on the difficulties or problems of interaction that it may have with each and every department of the Government, recognizing the work of some to the detriment of others. The third, whether or not we in the Government of Spain respect the competences in this case of a community with strong self-government such as Euskadi. On this issue, respect for competences, we have always had a difficulty that I recognize. It is not so much that we do not respect them or not recognize them, but that this is a Government that believes - as the Basque Government also believes - in public policies, and when the Government intends to present to its lords the first housing law in the history of our democracy, making a solemn public commitment - and I think quite eloquent - on how the General Administration of the State can contribute to solving one of the main problems of our citizenship and in particular of the young people, there are parliamentary groups - in particular its own - that show their doubts because, in fact, housing policies are the competence of the autonomous communities primarily and also of the municipalities, in terms of urban planning. But I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is what Parliament is for, in order to fine-tune and strike out where the competition limits of one administration or another are. What I am not going to do, Mr Esteban, and I say to you with all due respect, is not to transfer to the citizenry that the Government of Spain is going to show its commitment to public policies so that housing ceases to be a problem and, as our Constitution says, is a right in particular for the young people of our country. That is where I think Parliament is at stake, and that is where I think we can find the point of balance. I say this as an example of many other debates that we have. We have these debates within the Government as well. We are two different political formations, with different cultures, and we also have debates about how far public policies have to go, the commitments of the Government of Spain, taking into account, indeed, the decentralized State that we have in our country. With this, it is not that we have no respect for competences, but that we express our commitment to public policies. Obviously, I believe that Parliament is the fundamental place to resolve and to place where the competition limits of some administrations and others lie, but the political message I think is very important too, and the political message that this is a government that is going to make housing a right and not a problem is a message that not only our citizens are waiting for in Euskadi, but also throughout the country. Understand this as another reflection, which is not abstract, which is political and enters into the operation of what represents the action of the government that I preside over. It is true that we have had a lot of debates on this issue, and I always say the same thing to him: we are certainly going to try to improve. You are a ruling formation, and you are also doing so with the Basque Socialist Party. I sometimes talk to the Basque Socialist Party and you don't know what they tell me about the information they have from the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Esteban; if you want, we share it. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo makes negative gestures]] I am not saying this as a reproach, Your Honor, I am telling you more than anything, because everywhere beans are cooked, also in the Basque Government, there is no problem. [[Applauds]] It is true that we have to improve our dialogue, but there is a certain fact, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that we have had to face a pandemic and that we have now had to face the economic and social consequences of war, and this requires a great deal. When it is said: Sanchez is the one who has passed the most royal decrees laws. Well, it is that we have been two and a half years in which sometimes they criticize me for being late, and when we arrive with the royal decree law, by the urgent way - and it is fully justified - they also criticize me for having used the formula of the royal decree law and not a preliminary draft law. I believe that virtue is in balance, Your Honor. We are trying to do our best, with our successes and our mistakes, in responding to these multiple crises, and I am especially grateful to you for the contribution that the Basque Nationalist Party has always made to stability and to bringing forward measures that are good for Euskadi and for the whole of Spain. What I cannot share with you, Mr Esteban, is that we are not structurally addressing the response to war and its economic and social consequences, because we are really doing the same thing that the rest of the European governments are doing. This highlights Europe's political commitment, the social justice and solidarity response that we are implementing from Europe, both pan-European and national, but also because the nation state has the tools to respond to inflation. Obviously, we have to join the European Central Bank. I appreciate Lagarde's message to the financial markets when they started speculating on risk premiums. I think it has been a good message, but I think it is also important to recognise the effort we made during the pandemic, which has materialised in a major leap in public debt, as in all the economies of Europe. We had to do this because we had to save and rescue people, jobs and businesses, but we also have to recognise that from one year to this part, thanks to the evolution of the economy, we have reduced - I think - more than four points, the biggest reduction in the history of the public deficit, from 10% to 6%, roughly, and we are reducing the public debt, which is now 117%. It is high, no doubt, but it has a downward dynamic, which if anything expresses, is also the commitment of the Government of Spain to fiscal consolidation. Obviously, I believe that all this thinking - and you share it with me - must lead us, at European level, to a revision of the Stability and Growth Pact to tackle the ecological transition, the digital transformation, the defence commitments we have to make to deter the aggressor and, moreover, to continue to provide a social response to this multiple crisis, first of all, the pandemic and, now, inflation as a result of Putin's invasion of Ukraine. We're really doing what the rest of the governments are doing, Your Honor. We are implementing, as you rightly pointed out, selective reductions to the working middle class. I believe that the most eloquent policy in this respect is the 5% reduction in VAT on the bill for light. Obviously, as you rightly say, it has to be an exceptional measure, it cannot be a measure that is perpetuated in time beyond the duration of this crisis. We are helping the sectors concerned: transport, agriculture, fisheries. We are also helping the most vulnerable groups. We are increasing minimum living income or non-contributory pensions by 15%, and we are also, of course, promoting and encouraging public transport, which I believe is consistent with the crisis we have of inflation, the explosion in rising fuel prices and the need to make more use of public transport as a measure of protection for the working middle class in our country. We are doing the same thing that other European countries are doing, and we are also doing the same in taxation as other countries are doing. Yesterday - and Mrs Arrimadas rightly reminded us today - there was a liberal government in Brussels, in this case in Belgium, which announced the adoption of a tax on the big energy companies, and yesterday I transferred to your ladies and gentlemen the evolution of the capitalization that the big energy companies in our country are holding on the market, and I believe that considering many of the elements that you have previously commented on the articulation of this tax, it is something that is consistent, first, with the fiscal policy that the Spanish Government has been developing since the beginning of this parliamentary term and, second, with what the rest of the governments are doing. I would insist that if we have to deploy from the state of politics worth EUR 30 billion over the last year - EUR 15 billion by 31 December this year - I believe that the benefits of both financial institutions as a result of the tightening of monetary policy and its translational mortgages, and of large energy companies, from the point of view of gas and oil, are clearly also to help to deal with this crisis and to make a fair burden-sharing. In fact, when you spoke before about political phenomena that we have seen in other parts of the world and the fall of government, on many occasions it has to do with that, with the need to articulate measures that are understood by citizens in terms of social justice and a fair sharing of the burdens of war. This is what the Spanish Government is doing with the proposal of these two taxes on large financial institutions and energy companies. I am not really concerned about the evolution of the stock exchange yesterday either, because if you look at the evolution of the stock exchange and the capitalisation of large energy companies and also of large financial institutions over the past year, especially in recent months, I think it is, I do not know how to qualify it, but really extraordinary, and I think it is fair to table this debate. We don't stigmatize anyone. We simply say that the public administration is willing to take a step to protect our families and businesses. Therefore, even large companies that are benefiting from the tightening of monetary policy or this energy crisis will have to help alleviate the effects of the war on the working middle class of our country. On the commitments fulfilled or not fulfilled, indeed, of the fourteen commitments that we have made with the Basque Nationalist Party we have fulfilled five. That is to say, in June 2022, as my team refers to me, 35.7 % of the agreements are fulfilled with the PNV. First, to frame the process of determining deficit targets for the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre. Secondly, the transfer of prison management and execution within the competences pending the transfer to Euskadi. Thirdly, to encourage industry and to compensate for its adaptation to energy transformation by maintaining economic activity and employment. Fourthly, to make known to the Basque Nationalist Party some initiatives which the Government must promote and, in the event of a discrepancy, to reach satisfactory agreements. And maintain a fluid communication with the Basque Government to avoid judicializing discrepancies. Your Honor, with regard to the pending transfers of the Statute of Gernika, I would like to say to you - here I have it - that the situation is in fact somewhat paralysed right now. Mr Esteban, I think it also has to do with the fact that the Basque Government has decided to request the transfer of a number of subjects which they know are difficult to assume by the General Administration of the State. For example, we are talking about meteorology, coastal management and management, the protection fund for cinematography, initial work authorizations for foreigners. On these four points - you know, Mr Esteban - the sectoral ministries have shown themselves against the possibility of negotiating this transfer. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, from a substantive point of view, beyond these issues, it is clear that powers have to be transferred, but the Spanish Government has made a clear and consistent exercise in the transfer and enforcement of the Statute of Gernika. Agreements have been reached on the extension of road functions and services, and on the extension of the assets attached to the services of the General Administration of the State transferred to Euskadi. The functions and services of the General Administration of the State in matters such as roads, railways and rail transport have also been transferred. For example, in relation to the Basurto Hospital-Ariz railway lines, among others. Also the implementation of labour legislation. For example, pre-retirement aid for workers affected by collective redundancies. Also, the implementation of State legislation on pharmaceuticals; the management of health benefits from school insurance; the implementation, I repeat, of State legislation on prison matters, which has been strongly contested by the conservative bench. And, of course, also the difficult handover with that agreement for the assumption by Euskadi of the management of the non-contributory minimum income allowance. In short, Your Honor, there are more lights than shadows in the fulfillment of this commitment. As for your approach to the international dimension and Euskadi's participation in certain debates, we have a way to go. I recognize that we can indeed do much more there, but it is also important that you remember that we have again incorporated into the agenda the holding of the sectoral conference on matters related to the European Union, CARUE, which is a decisive asset in order to order the territorial policy programme in Spain and as an express commitment of the Government to the autonomous system. In addition, CARUE will be held in Bilbao on 28 July. In any case, in this area to which you referred earlier, we can do so, I have had the opportunity to speak with the Lehendakari Urkullu on this and I believe that things can be done in that area. Of course, the Spanish Government is open to seeing what measures we can take. Indeed, you have spoken about the new Official Secrets Act and would like to move that the Government is already finalizing the Classified Information Bill, as set out in the policy action plan adopted for this year 2022. What is this law going to do? You know, you replaced the Official Secrets Act 1968. It will aim to bring our legal system into line with current needs and to bring it into line with international standards. This new law will bring us into line with the rules of the most advanced democracies, meeting the requirements of both the European Union and NATO regulations, as well as of international treaties signed by our country. As I am informed by the ministries concerned, the project is in the final stage of development. It establishes a perfectly regulated and guaranteed system for the classification and declassification of so-called official secrets, it also regulates the procedures for judicial and parliamentary access to that classified information and the commitment of the Government of Spain, Your Honor, Mr Esteban, is to approve the preliminary draft law this July, this July. [[Applauds]] We are obviously open to improvement in management on the PAST, but the effort being made by the General Administration of the State and all territorial administrations is extraordinary. The PERTE are already under way, the transfers we have made to the autonomous communities are already worth 15.5 billion euros and, returning to the PERTE, many of the territorial dimensions have been incorporated into the eleven projects we have presented. Your Honour, in answering your question about those structural problems that we have to solve, of course we are prepared to work on the planning of our territorial policy, we are ready to continue working and working together with its political strength, with the Basque Nationalist Party, but also - and I do not say this as an excuse - this government in two and a half years has reactivated all the sectoral conferences, we have deployed twenty conferences of presidents, in which I am also very grateful and very grateful for the participation of the Lehendakari, which I know is very significant and very special for Basque nationalism, and we have had to face a crisis of an extraordinary dimension. In this respect, Your Honor, the Government of Spain has also put forward what I believe are right now the main needs of the citizens: firstly, the response to COVID and, secondly, the response to the inflation crisis. But all this, with our successes and mistakes, Mr Esteban, we have always tried to do so with the utmost respect for Title VIII and the division of competence of our decentralized State. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u63	Mr President, I was saying that both you and we are political groups that believe in public policy and that is true, but what happens is that we too believe in competition sharing. You take out the housing law to confront me. Look, there is already a housing law in Euskadi, so much or more advanced than the one you are proposing, but what matters is not precisely that this Parliament aligns - like Alfonso Guerra - with competences, is this the interpretation of what is the competence of the autonomous communities? No, it will be the statute of autonomy, which is an organic law. I mean, you can tune in here, right? As this judgment we do not refine it, for here, in this legislation I already refine it, and competition too. No, I can't admit that. It is good for us that the policies that have to be made of housing and that are helped, but within the framework that has to be done. Move where you have to move it. Here, as is the jurisdictional division, it cannot be. So, what can't be is that we are conditioned by our own policies. And I am not good with that likeness; it has sounded very bad, indeed. I respect public policy, yes, but I respect competition as well. You mentioned things to me about transfers even from previous legislatures. The truth is that in prisons, which was a terrible difficulty and was also far behind in the calendar, we suddenly found facilities to do so. All right! Great, great! And in the IMV you do not tell me the difficulties that have been, because, in the end, I have experienced that very directly. I mean, this hasn't been the government... no, and it's had to be in circumstances and forcing things. It can't be, Mr. President. Look, all I'm asking you to do is follow the calendar that you set yourself, because you're not following it and you've left things out. That the Basque government is asking you to go ahead? All right, you follow the calendar. But they're not following him. I do not know what the internal relationship of the Basque Government is, but what I do know is that the things that they present to Parliament and the initiatives do so together from the Governing Council, they know them both, they share them both and they present them; and what I know, Mr President, is that you have a commitment - by the way, you have given it to me as a fulfillment and I have been amazed, because you have read it as a fulfillment - to communicate matters to us before. You'll do whatever you want in the end, but you have to talk to them, try to agree to them, etc. And in this very sitting this has clearly not been done, acting as if they had an absolute majority. And in the end, what does it lead us to if we have some government responsibility and want to keep it? To have to be working under pressure unnecessarily, hence my weekly discomfort. And that, really, Mr. President, wears out a lot and it's very unpleasant, and we wouldn't have to get to that. That's what I'm asking, the change of attitude. Mr President, you are talking about the fact that more and more sectoral conferences are being held, but that it is clear to you that we do not want sectoral conferences, what we want is for them to let us exercise our powers. You, with the eastern roll of co-government, are in the end doing what you are doing, detracting competences and limiting the decisions of the autonomous governments themselves in competences that are exclusive by law. I agree with the issue of the Stability and Growth Pact, which needs to be amended. I have already told you about our position on the new taxes and we will continue to talk, because we do not refuse to talk, but I also tell you that there are ways and ways of doing things, because it has minimized the drop in the stock market the other day. For starters, the other day the FROB lost a million dollars for its participation in banks that went down on the stock market. So, look, shapes are also important in our relationship and in the way we do some things and give certain announcements. I told you that it gives me the feeling that these measures you have announced are not Hilvanas and that they are not structural. Indeed, he has not talked about the issue of pensions, nor has he advanced anything from where things are going to go. He has not, of course, told us about tax reform, etc. Timely measures. First, to go to some, the topic of railways. For starters, they are asymmetrical, because the territorial effects are going to be very different. Secondly, when such measures are taken, at least we must also talk to other railway administrations which have competences and responsibilities; taking this unilaterally also has an effect on others. And thirdly, do you know what the news is today in Bizkaia? For in the last five days Renfe has suspended the service of fifty trains, fifty trains, without notice practically one hour before. And you know why? Well, for the lack of drivers. So, it might look great that passes are going to be free, but I don't know where people are going to ride if there are no trains. Therefore, what we have to go to is more about the structural issue, and it is a problem that we have been dragging for a long time, Mr President. Hey, this week there are fifty trains, fifty frequencies in Bizkaia. Let's get to the cash. And I'm going to tell you more, you have a budget commitment with us to increase the frequencies with Carranza, and that is precisely why it has been delayed. We've been getting it, but listen, we've come to a point. This must be remedied and we must respond not only to the suspension of frequencies, but also to the increase in those which you have committed to us. That's what I'm talking about. Look, it's not about doing it, I'd say giving a sense of security in what's done. Let's see if citizenship is going to end up more pissed off with the free bonus because in the end you can't use it, than with the first impression they had given you. President, obviously we each have a different vision of self-government and surely this act of affinity of this Parliament to some like it more and believe that they attack: I am going to go to the autonomous community of what and convince and use my majority... Oh, I just don't have it in that one, this way. Don't count on us for that and understand that the discomfort is great. If not, do a rethink of what the model has to be, and if others feel very well, it affects others, but those who want to maintain our self-government, hear it, or touch it. And he knows that he has a structural problem - I insist - in Euskadi and Catalonia, which goes from the symbolic and the national recognition, but also through this respect for self-government. And this, Mr. President, must be taken seriously. You can make an interpretation that everything is perfect, but you have to agree with the assessment made by your parliamentary partners, we will have to agree because, if not, we will have the feeling that something does not work. Mr President, look more in the long term, dialogue from the beginning and let me know. What's more, by making a long list of legislative projects things don't have to go any better. See what structurally is not going to be a problem in reaching a majority or disturbing a majority of parliamentary groups and from there act. Not by making more numbers people will have a better feeling. Peace, because I see a certain nervousness. Tranquility!Sensation of serenity and effectiveness. I insist, it is a fundamental question of respect for self-government. He must count on his Basque and Catalan allies and I fear, I fear, that he will not want to face - and I think this was a great opportunity for the majority there - the great challenge. It is true that if I had succeeded in that, to stabilize things for at least decades - because on the future horizon who knows the things that can happen - to have stabilized and reassured the Catalan and Basque issues, that could have made you truly a state figure. However, he has not dared and, frankly, I think it is a mistake. Anyway, we have the day of the extension of this legislature. Let us hope that this feeling of disquiet and of being continually perfiding with the Government will disappear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Finally, I certainly did not express myself well. When I was talking about fine-tuning, I meant us, the Government itself and the parliamentary majority that represents it. Among other issues is the fact that there is indeed the Constitutional Court. You can appeal to the Constitutional Court for invasion of jurisdiction in this or other many laws and, indeed, it is in the parliamentary debate where we, if there is that doubt that you legitimately manifest - in this or other bills - can resolve it. But, Your Honor, I believe that in fact we are demonstrating, first of all, public commitment or commitment to public policies by the Government of Spain. That cannot deny us, it cannot deny this coalition government that we want to bring - to continue with the same example - a housing law, the first housing law in the history of democracy, and that opens up debate. Indeed, it opens up legitimate debates such as what is the division of powers or what is, let us say, the capacity of the General Administration of the State to fulfil a constitutional mandate such as that housing is a right and not a problem, as it is today. I insist, I've expressed myself badly. I am referring, above all, to the parliamentary majority and the executive branch, in the parliamentary debate, to know much more clearly where exactly the boundaries of the composite State that is ours are. Among other things, because I also believe that with the data, Your Honor - I had them before, but I do not find them now - we are proving that since we are at the head of the government, the dispute over competences, the resources before the Constitutional, have come down quite substantively and not only with their community, but also with the Generalitat de Catalunya and with the rest of the territorial administrations. That is why, from our point of view, an agreement is always better than an appeal to the Constitutional Court, and I believe that we have practiced it in many of the decisions that the Government has taken. I understand - and we practice it, Your Honor - that for the Basque Nationalist Party and also for Euskadi - I recognize it and I value it - the feeling of self-government is very important and it is very rooted. Obviously, the dialogue has to be bilateral, as it is from the Spanish Government with the Basque Government, but I think it is also important to highlight - I know you do not, but I have to highlight - sectoral conferences. The sectoral conferences also allow us to organize the debate on territorial policy and I believe that in the Government of Spain, both from the point of view of co-governance and from the point of view of sectoral conferences, we have tried to order, legitimise and develop a very important section of our Title VIII of the Constitution that was not explored or developed during the years of the People's Party government. Really, Your Honor, I empathize with you in relation to the pressure. We're all under pressure, Your Honor, all of us, too. Of course, we have 155 seats and we have to get to 176. In Euskadi you, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, are already an absolute majority. Believe me, I am convinced that negotiations within the coalition government are random, probably not as bad as ours, at least from the point of view of the public, but that we also have to add their amendments, their transactions and, therefore, that makes everything much more complex and delicate. But have no doubt that peace of mind and patience are undoubtedly one of the assets of the Spanish Government. I think it is sometimes too much. With regard to the stability pact, I agree. As for the impulse to public transport, you say it will be asymmetric. Well, it will also be asymmetric depending on what response the autonomous communities give to the extent that the Government of Spain has placed on the table. We pay 30% but it has to be the autonomous communities that put the rest. I believe that if we recognise the composite state and the division of powers, we are going one step further by paying 30% of the travel of administrations that are not our own, which is not the general administration of the state. As far as security is concerned, I agree with you, Your Honor, but look at the procedure we have put in place from the Spanish Government - and which was even criticized by you, Mr Esteban - for the adoption of the first royal decree law with the package of measures in support of the collectives as a result of the war in Ukraine. First, we proposed that we had an important European Council in which we wanted to achieve the gas ceiling for electricity generation. I was criticized by your ladies and gentlemen from many parliamentary groups because we were slow in the response of the national dimension to this crisis and we did what we did was, one, talk to the affected sectors; two, ask all parliamentary groups to give us proposals to incorporate into the royal decree law. I know you haven't, Mr. Esteban. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]] See if that has been the case that there have been parliamentary groups that incorporated many of their measures into that royal decree law and then voted against it. I hope this is not the same on this occasion. What we are doing in this royal decree law is practically, except in the field of public transport, prolong until 31 December the measures that we had already extended until 30 June, so I do not see where the criticism is. Perhaps you are critical of the measures I announced yesterday in the debate on the state of the nation, but they are consistent with what we are doing, Your Honor, and they are consistent with what the rest of Europe's governments are doing, because unfortunately we do not have many more instruments to deal with this energy, food and inflation disaster that Putin has put us into. Of course - I said it before - I take care of the mood of the citizenry, of its frustration, of its anguish and also of its goat, because it is mine, because after two and a half years suffering the pandemic, once we had a clear horizon of economic recovery, of strong growth and of job creation as we are having, we are first suddenly faced with a war in Europe that no one could imagine and that, of course, no one has wanted; and secondly, there is an effect on prices and on the cost of living that makes us demand once again the best of ourselves, of the Government of Spain and of all the parliamentary groups. Your Honor, that is what I ask and thank the PNV, that you, despite the criticisms that you make us, are always willing to tie your shoulder. With our successes and our mistakes, Your Honor, we are also trying to respond, at the right time, to these crises that have occurred, sometimes more successfully than others, but I cannot be criticized for being late in the national response with the first package of measures because I want to open a process of dialogue with all the parliamentary groups. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]] I know you do not, but now you are telling me that I am not informing the parliamentary groups of the measures. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, about the state of the nation debate, okay, but we'll have time now to talk to you. In the end, they are measures that are being implemented by other European governments and, in addition, they are measures of common sense. If the General Administration of the State is paying EUR 15 billion to protect the middle working class, why not ask the big financial institutions or the energy companies in this country to do the same? [[Applauds]] I think we need to open that debate in our country, because, if not, in the end, Mr Esteban, what is going on? You have heard Mrs Arrimadas before - she and many other Members - say that this is done in Italy, that the other is done in France and that why it is not done in Spain. We are opening the debates that many other societies and their political representatives are debating in other parts of Europe because, in the end, Your Honor, we are all suffering the same, we are suffering the cost of defending, one, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a country that is being attacked; two, international legality, and, three, our system of values, which is also being affected as a result of this invasion of Putin in Ukraine. From there, we must bear a cost for defending those values and for defending international legality, and we must make the sharing of the burdens of war as fair as possible among our citizens. In this respect, I am certainly grateful for Mr Esteban's willingness to negotiate these new measures which I announced yesterday in the debate on the state of the nation. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u66	Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u67	Egun on. Good morning. Mr Sánchez, ministers, ministers and ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the final line of the legislature. [[The Lord]] In just over a year, citizenship, in our case the Basque, will return to the polls and will value what each one of us has said and done over the last few years, an assessment that will certainly take into account what we each did when citizenship needed health protection in the worst of the pandemic; what we each bring when the social and economic protection of the social majorities was at stake, and how we each respond to the urgent needs that each person and every family has had during these years of pandemic, war and crisis. And yes, they will judge us all for what we did and for what we didn't do too. During all this time a lot has been said, a lot has been written and a lot has been said about us and us, about the people of Euskal Herria Bildu. Everything has been said about our dark intentions, our hidden motives and why the Basque independenceists have committed so much to helping people, supporting and negotiating with this Government social and economic measures for the social and working majority. How could it be that the independenceists committed themselves to defending the interests of the Basque workers and also of the workers of the rest of the State? And they hear us, but they don't listen to us; they never did. If they had, they will see and understand that all we have done is all we said we would do, because Euskal Herria Bildu says what he does and does what he says. The problem was probably not that they would not listen to us, but that they did not want to because, if they had done so, he reported that for years and decades the powers of this State, from politicians to the media, through the judiciary or the police, had been built upon us, would fall like a castle of cards. These days we have again confirmed that there is a political, media, judicial, police, business, financial and oligarchical fabric perfectly fattened to end political dissent and to try to destroy those who dare at least to question everything that was tied and well bound. This has been the case with the Basque independenceists, with the Catalans and also with those who called into question the current system and its pillars. The Catalan compañeras and compañeros well know the high price with which this daring is paid. They have also checked and suffered from it by the companions of Podemos. There was a time when even you, Mr Sánchez, denounced the pressures against yourself and your goals to govern. And you know what? That long ago in Euskal Herria we put this name and surname: regime of 78. Mr Sánchez, we say this with the utmost respect: the model of transition is not an inheritance, but a mortgage for peoples and workers. We are talking about a mortgage that is summed up in the imposition of a monarchical regime that is built on the monopoly of the major media and on the absence of an independent judiciary, not to mention the impunity of police apparatuses or the privileges of economic elites. It is the regime of 78, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, regime of 78. We want to raise that mortgage on the Basque people and the rest of the people of the State, and the question is why most of you do not want to do it. Why do most of you accept game rules that are rigged and perfectly summarized in that sentence of tied and well bound? All of you should be the first to initiate a real and profound transition in this State that can really bring you closer to a democracy of the twenty-first century. Because, even if you repeat it, as you did yesterday, Mr Sánchez, Spain is not one of the most consolidated democracies in the world and it is only necessary to look at the data and ravines of institutions such as the UN or organizations such as Amnesty International. Spain, as a State, remains a democracy of poor quality. We have said this and we have repeated it permanently until today: the Spanish left will always be ready to cooperate in the democratization of this state if this process is possible, but for this it is necessary that the Spanish left took the decision to break ties with the mortgages inherited from the dictatorship and open a new historical phase that seeks and builds a way out from dialogue, agreement and a deeply democratic conception to national conflicts and social and economic inequalities. As I said, if in that investiture, which allowed the formation of this government, instead of shouting and insulting, they would have listened to us, they would have understood perfectly why we do what we do. We said then, and we repeat now, that this Government, together with the plurinational and progressive majority in this Parliament, would open up for our peoples a window of opportunity to move forward on three major shared goals that Basque citizenship hopes to achieve: a new, just and equitable social and economic reality, which respects and expands the rights of workers and ensures decent living conditions for all people; a new way of understanding and respecting the plurinationality of this State, recognizing the different national realities that exist and respecting its right to decide freely and democratically its future; and also a constructive contribution towards the process of coexistence and reconciliation that Basque society is carrying out with great doses of generosity and responsibility after so many years of confrontation and suffering, progress to put aside exceptionality and revenge and to close wounds and to underpin the new time of open peace in our country. We, the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, said in that investiture that we were willing to contribute, work and push for all this to be possible. I think we're doing it and we're proving it. Today, I would like to reiterate that we continue to maintain that commitment intact, because we committed ourselves to our country, to the Basques and Basques, to facilitate it as possible, a commitment which, moreover, and from a class solidarity perspective, we have extended to the social and working majority of the different peoples of the State. Since that January 2020, the date of the investiture, there have been many measures that the social, progressive and plurinational majority of this Congress have taken in favor of the popular and working majority on the social and economic level: the revaluation of the pensions to the CPI, the law of euthanasia, the ERTE, the abolition of the crime that penalized pickets in strikes, the law rider, the minimum living income, the law of the self is yes or the decree of anti-crisis measures that included aid to fuels, the freezing of rents, the rise of the minimum living income, aid to SMEs and self-employed people or the extension of the electric social bonus. While the right and the right make noise, the people of Euskal Herria Bildu have reached agreements to increase non-contributory pensions by 15% or to allocate 25 million to a fund for asbestos victims. Also in the Senate we have reached agreements so that the networks, neskatillas and packing women of the ports see recognized their rights in matter of pensions and Social Security, for the declaration of culture as essential good or for the measures of the social shield to be permanent, because, when Euskal Herria Bildu reaches agreements, the popular classes win. We have also set ourselves the goal of moving forward in political and democratic formulas for the resolution of national conflicts from dialogue, word and ballot box. Today in this House there are more than seventy Members of Parliament who defend the right to decide of nations such as Basque, Catalan or Galician, more than seventy Members of Parliament who represent millions of Basques, Catalans and Galicians, but also millions of people of the State who, from a feeling and a national project different from ours, respect the right to decide from a deep democratic conviction. There have never before been so many Members in this Parliament who recognized plurinationality and supported solutions based on the self-determination of our peoples. And, paradoxes of history, today there is no government of possible progress in this state without the concurrence of the Basque and Catalan sovereignist and independenceist lefts. It is a new reality that we are sure that sooner than later it will allow us to walk the path that nations like Scotland are already walking without more limits than the word and decision of our societies. And we are also sure that sooner rather than later, because this is our wish, we will be able to build a free and democratic Basque republic that will lead our citizens to a socially just and economically equitable society. We're sure of it. There have also been numerous times when we have discussed in this House the new time of coexistence and peace that our country has been living through these nearly three years. Most of these debates have been triggered by far-right initiatives that only sought to generate confrontation, hatred and resentment. We have always responded to all of them with new contributions, constructive words and commitments of progress to accompany the enormous effort that Basque citizens are showing for a future of peace and coexistence. In that sense, and as we did in the Declaration of 18 October in Aiete, today, on behalf of Euskal Herria Bildu, we want to transfer all of you and you, Mr Sánchez, our sincere commitment to the recognition and reparation of all, absolutely all, the victims, and we do not forget any of them. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] In that statement we wanted to make a specific mention of the victims caused by the violence of ETA, which literally said the following, and which today we reiterate: 'We want to convey to them our sorrow and pain for the suffering suffered. We feel his pain and, from that sincere feeling, we affirm that it should never have occurred, to no one can satisfy that all that happened or that it had lasted so long in time.' Unfortunately, the past has no remedy. We know that nothing we say can undo the damage caused, but we are convinced that it is possible, at least, to alleviate it from the respect, consideration and memory of all those victims. We want to tell you, from the heart, that we feel enormously their suffering and that we are committed to trying to mitigate it to the extent of our possibilities. We will always be willing to do so and believe that it would be a good contribution if each of us were to make our own statement to this process. We are aware that for some it will never be enough, but we are also aware that the Basques and Basques have made a great deal of progress in the construction of that shared future and that the victims of different signs are making a huge effort, proving that yes, it is possible to listen, empathize and, from respect, move forward, because memory, victims and their pain cannot be a political weapon against the adversary, as happened yesterday also in this Chamber. They'll never find us there. Truth, justice and reparation for all victims are and will be the best guarantee that this will not happen again. That is our commitment and that is why we will continue to work. You see, this is what the Basque Independenceists came to do to this Congress: to improve the lives of workers, to seek the resolution of territorial conflicts from dialogue and speech, and to contribute to the time of peace and open coexistence in this country. This is our agenda, this is the contract we signed with Basque citizenship and these are the objectives for which we will continue to work. Mr Sánchez, we have supported many of your measures, those which we considered to benefit the popular classes, and we have agreed on many others that contribute and broadened rights and freedoms. We appreciate and recognize the progress made, but we must show our absolute criticism and disagreement with the decisions that you and your Government have made over the past few months, decisions that should not be found in the balance sheet of a government called progressive: the cases of espionage to independence through Pegasus and the null will to investigate and clarify these illegal listenings; the justification for the action in the Melilla fence and the deaths produced by it; the abandonment of the Saharan people in exchange for support for the Moroccan regime or the bellicose exaltation for war, such as NATO, which Basque society rejects - do not forget - as well as the increase in military spending. They are all wrong decisions that go against the majority feeling of those who trusted you and your Government not only to say that they would be different to the right, but to be different to the right. Do you believe, Mr Sánchez, that these decisions will help to mobilize that progressive and left-wing social majority that made you president? We don't think so. During this debate he tried to print a new left turn with the announcement of his measures. Today we can think, indeed, that we have here the left-wing Sanchez. I hope so and we will be glad to do so, but, as almost always, with this Government everything remains half way, everything is temporary and not structural and are patches for a concrete moment without changes of roots. He has announced several measures that we, along with the rest of the groups on the plurinational left, have been demanding a long time, such as a tax on banking and electricity. Is it positive that these decisions will be made? Of course, it's positive. Is that enough? Obviously not. You said that the tax on the bank will be in effect for two years and that EUR 1.5 million is expected to be collected. It's a somewhat rhetorical question, but do you know the profits of major banks only in 2021? More than 20 billion. Do you know how many millions are owed by the financial institutions of the bank bailout? Over 60 billion. See if you still have room to act by means of a longer and permanent tax! And the same goes for electric and oil companies, the 20 cent discount was applied to fuels and oil companies, through price manipulation, not only did they eat that discount, but they have earned more than ever in history. The VAT on electricity was reduced and efforts were made to stop the benefits of electricity, and electricity has returned to a record 1,000 million dollars in profits, and the spoils have been distributed among its own by dividends. We are faced with a big scam that they don't even bother to hide because nobody acts against them decisively and nobody controls them, and they know it. You have said nothing about how you will control - as you are doing with each approved measure - that these tax surcharges do not end up impacting on the consumer. We would like to know the mechanisms he has proposed so that this does not happen. Mr Sánchez, announce the public intervention of prices to put a stop to electricity and fuels, apply permanent extraordinary taxes on their profits, recover the public management of all privatized generation plants or, why not, nationalize the electricity which the People's Party and the PSOE privatized by means of fascicles. These are formulas that are already being applied in states such as Italy, France or the United Kingdom, in fact, not suspected of being communists. This electric scam is assuming the widespread impoverishment of the popular layers and we wonder when the time will come to end the long time when these great economic powers always win while citizenship always loses and if this time - this time, yes - the crisis will be paid by the rich and the big companies and not the workers. It would be a good start in the left turn that many groups are demanding. You have also talked about the income pact, that euphemism that you now use from the employer, the IBEX and your own government to talk about a wage freeze that we obviously oppose frontally. Inflation is not given by the wage increase, you know it perfectly well, but by the unorthodox increase in the profits of large companies, especially electric and oil companies. Because, let's not be fooled, the income pact will only involve impoverishment and loss of purchasing power of workers as long as the increase in business profits is shielded. This isn't the way out. That is why we are asking you, and we will continue to do so, that the Government should take labour measures to increase wages in line with the CPI, as well as to revalue the inter-professional minimum wage in the same terms. These labour measures would relieve workers and also contain inflation. You must choose who to benefit and on which side to place yourself: in the area of wage improvement for workers or in the area of the shielding of business profits. We would like to remind you again, and in another paragraph, that you take very much into account the competences of our people when taking action on scholarships, health or prosecutors such as those you have announced. Do not fall into the mistake that was made at many times during the pandemic in which the decisions that were made invaded our self-government and undermined our ability to decide on the issues that affected us. As I have said, we welcome the measures you have announced, but we expect more, starting with ambitious, progressive and just tax reform. Because we have had to go through a pandemic or be in the midst of a war in Europe, with inflation triggered, to take these measures, and we would not want to have to wait for another catastrophe in order to be able to make bolder and more structural decisions. You know that decisions will be necessary, because, Mr Sánchez, this economic crisis that we are facing is not only a consequence of the war in Ukraine, a war that has actually aggravated the situation, but the crisis and the collapse that we are facing were already a reality before the war and will continue after it as well. That is why we say that we need not only palliative measures that alleviate the harsh situation of the most affected and vulnerable sectors, but structural measures that begin to change the root of the predatory system of people and of the planet on which we live. On the other hand, it seems that we are taking steps backwards rather than accelerating the ecological and energy transition. With the excuse that the war is slowing down and we're going the other way around. The war in Ukraine has again given another example of this. We have been clear and sharp in our strong rejection of the invasion, just as we have made constant calls for the immediate cessation of all military actions that could lead to a diplomatic path that would seek a lasting solution at a negotiating table. We do not share that the prolongation of the war is inevitable, but that there are hidden interests associated with it. We refuse to assume that we are doomed to recession or to the increase of energy because of war. Economic decisions taken by Europe and governments are not alien to these consequences. We believe that denouncing the invasion or rejecting Putin's war does not mean sharing a strategy that holds Europe hostage to the US' attempt to strengthen its military leadership or its gas market, while the European peoples suffer the greatest inflation in decades and a widespread impoverishment of citizens. We sincerely hope that the war will end soon and that all necessary diplomatic efforts will be made, because we believe that a dialogued and political solution is possible. At the end of the day, we will have to assess the costs to Europe, also to the Spanish State, of not having any autonomy in foreign policy or in security policies, and how expensive it is for us to be and live at the service of other powers and their interests. And I'm done. There is only one year left in the legislature and we hope that you will be able to choose the path you are going to take. You must choose, Mr Sánchez, how you want to be remembered by the citizen when you return to the polls: how you extended the freedoms and social and economic well-being of the majority or how you maintained the shielding of the benefits of the minority, how you advanced in the resolution of national conflicts from dialogue or how you perpetuated them from denial. We sincerely hope that you will choose well. He said yesterday: we'll go after them all. Well, let us go for all, Mr Sánchez, for social and economic justice, for the democratic resolution of conflicts and for a new phase that breaks with the old inheritances that this State continues to drag away. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u68	Thank you so much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. I'm going to do a couple of maths on your intervention. The first is that the Spanish Constitution was not an imposition, but was endorsed by the social will of our country and that the Transition, in the end, with its many lights and its few shadows, must be recognized that it has brought us the best stage of our country's history. Do not recognize this or, at least, expect it from me right now, as secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, that we are the only party left standing at the time and that actively participated in the architecture and drafting of the Spanish Constitution, is something I cannot share, and there I leave it. On the democratic quality of our country, I do not say, I was now seeing some data from the British magazine The Economist, which places Spain among one of the twenty-five most consolidated democracies in the world. But the interesting thing is not this fact, which I have already shared on some other occasion with you, but the following. For example, according to this ranking of The Economist, we have a similar score to the United States, Italy and France. We have a note on the functioning of the Government which is very similar to that of the previous year, and there is a very high note in democratic pluralism and also in the functioning of our democracy. And where we actually have a problem - a problem of institutional architecture, but of democratic attitude on the part of some parliamentary groups - is in the obstructive attitude in this case of the main opposition party, which after a thousand days continues to block the renewal of two important bodies such as the Constitutional Court and the General Council of the Judiciary. And I believe that that is where, in fact, we have a deficiency, a weakness, and I would also like to use this comment to ask again the main opposition party, once and for all, to stop holding hostage the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court of an obstructive policy that does not help democracy or its proper functioning. [[Applauds]] He talks about this is a government that always stays half, and I deny the biggest, Mrs. Aizpurua. Let's see what it means to get to the end or to stay in half. Let us set the example of labour reform. You voted against labour reform because you said it was a reform that somehow did not meet all your demands. Nor is it a labour reform that covers all the demands of the Spanish Government; I am convinced that we cannot of the United States, nor of the Socialist Party; I am convinced that neither of the trade unions nor, of course, of the employers. But that's the virtue, Your Honor, the virtue is that we have agreed and put forward a labor reform that has brought eight out of ten contracts in our country to be indefinite contracts. If we had gone to the maximalist theses of his political formation, today we would continue to have a labor reform that is the labor reform of the People's Party, which he imposed... Yes, of course, the labor reform that he imposed when he had absolute majority, at the beginning of the 2010s. [[denials by several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] With this, Your Honor, I believe that the virtue is that this government has been able to achieve fifteen agreements with the social partners, very important agreements, including that of labour reform, and that, in the end, we have felt represented in it the social majority of this country, and that is the difference between being a formation of government, with a clear vocation of government, or not. We, of course, are willing to give up, not the fundamentals of our policy, but we are willing to give up and share for the sake of an agreement that is beneficial to society as a whole, especially when we are talking about an area such as the labour market, where not only the interests of employers, but also the interests of workers and, logically, the interests of the General Administration of the State are there. And another so much we could talk about this that you call a belligerent exaltation. To me, Your Honor, you have not heard me say anything at all about the bellicose exaltation before February 24, 2022. Your Honor, the approach I have taken has simply been to find a reality, which right now Europe's security is threatened. In that, Mrs. Aizpurua, I think we can agree. Is Europe's security threatened or not? I believe that yes, I believe that it is threatened, as a result of a nuclear power, right now in the hands of an autocrat like Putin, having violated international legality. Therefore, if we agree that this is a violation of international legality, as the United States did in Iraq a few years ago, I believe that the key is to put ourselves on the side of the aggressor and, of course, to advocate diplomatic solutions, to demand the end of the war - it would be missing more!, that was said by my first intervention and I use your comment to say it again - but, in the meantime, we who have to defend is the aggressor, whom we have to help by all means is the aggressor. In that context, Your Honor, if you have the opportunity to speak with political representatives from Latvia, from all the Baltic republics, from Poland, from Romania, from Germany, from many countries that are threatened in a much more direct way than we are, because we are far more geographically distant from Putin's threat on the eastern front of Europe, if he speaks to all of them he will realize the need for us from Spain also to be united in increasing Europe's deterrent capacity to protect its borders and for those borders not to be threatened by Putin and his imperialist anxieties. And this is not an empty proclamation; it is, unfortunately, a reality. I invite you, Your Honor, to go to Latvia, to go to Estonia, to go to Lithuania, to go to these countries and speak precisely to the citizens and political representatives of all political signs, because you will see how real Putin's threat is in these countries; countries that, by the way, do not have a mountain range that protects Latvia or the Baltic countries of Russia, but have the border just a few metres away and know perfectly well how real Putin's threat is. [[The lady]] And if we know this, it is clear that from all parts of Europe we must be united and responsible, always defending the diplomatic path, always advocating for peace and the end of the conflict. But if that is the case, Your Honor, what we will have to do is show solidarity, improve Europe's deterrent capabilities on a front that is now being violated as a result of Putin's invasion. And if that is the case, sir, also from the left, without any belligerent spirit, because we do not do it to attack anyone, but simply to warn the aggressor, with our deterrent capabilities, not to invade nor one centimeter of the territory of any of the countries belonging to the European Union, if that is so, Your Honor, we too will have to put on our side and we will have to invest more in defence. We must do so, Your Honor, and not to attack anyone, but to defend our way of life, our political project, which is the European Union, with its shortcomings, with all the improvements it needs, but we must do so. Moreover, that industry, the defence industry, is an industry that is positive for many territories of our country. You talk, for example, to some of the public representatives, but I do not say high public representatives or deputies, no; I am talking about councillors, in the Bay of Cadiz or, for example, in Galicia. Talk to them and they will explain how beneficial it is also to bet on an industry that creates jobs, creates wealth and territorial opportunities in many parts of our country. And I am convinced that none of those workers or any of those people they talk to and say that, in fact, we have to bet on this industry are either belligerents or imperialists, but people who want to preserve their model of democratic coexistence, which is what Putin is questioning right now. And this is the reality, a reality that has not caused Europe, ladies and gentlemen. This is a reality that has provoked a single person and, I insist, of course we will always defend peace, the resolution of conflicts by diplomatic means and not by military means. On intervention or not in the energy markets, you say that we have to do more things. Well, I'm not saying no, Your Honor, but acknowledge, at least, that we are doing a lot of things in the field of energy market intervention, not only at national level, but also at European level. We have, as you know, reached the wholesale market; we have also reached free market rates; we have reached the gas increase in the retail market; we have frozen the price of butane; we have reduced VAT linked to the bill of light by up to 80%, also on charges and tolls. In short, Your Honor, I believe that the Spanish Government is demonstrating, both at European and national level, that we take seriously the drama of inflation, the exponential rise in energy prices and that with the instruments we have from the nation state we do everything and more and, as I said before, we will go for all when we defend the working middle class of our country. You will also have to acknowledge with us, Your Honor, that at European level we are launching or leading very beneficial initiatives for the whole of Spanish citizenship and I believe that, in the future, European. There is the top of the algae that generates electricity for the Iberian peninsula, and there is also the proposal to reform the electricity market to end the evolution of the gas price at the price of electricity in this case. Nor do I fully understand the criticism that we have slowed the ecological transition in our country. On the contrary, what we have done has been to speed up and accelerate further this ecological transition, both in the area of renewables and in energy efficiency, energy saving. In short, I believe that we will agree on that compromise. Finally, Your Honor, tax reform and foreign policy. On tax reform, more can be done, you all leave a taste of being half; but, man, having put a minimum of the type of companies for the big corporations of 15%; having been the first governments to pass a tax on certain digital services linked to the big technological corporations; having been one of the governments to have launched the financial transaction tax and now to open the debate on the tax to the big energy companies and also to the big financial entities, I think it is on the way to tax justice, to which you referred earlier. On foreign policy, Your Honor, I have not quite understood what you want to say to me. Does it mean to me that Spain should not be within the framework of the European Union, should it not strengthen the European Union? Because that is actually what the Spanish Government is doing. This is a European government, it is a government that works to strengthen and federalize Europe. I believe that we have achieved this with absolutely unimaginable things before the pandemic, such as pooling debt at European level in order to be able to give a joint response and strengthen public goods, such as the environment, such as the digital transformation of our economy and also the Unemployment Reinsurance Fund, which has enabled us to finance and sustain many jobs via ERTE through that response that we gave to the pandemic at European level, or the joint purchase of vaccines, or - as I said before - setting a gas price that generates electricity on the Iberian peninsula. I believe that this is the context, the framework in which Spanish foreign policy revolves, let us say, and I have not understood very well what it means by this appreciation. To me it has sounded like a sort of isolation of Spain in the international context, and that is something that, of course, we cannot share. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u71	Mr. Sanchez, we're going to have to talk more, because you haven't understood me in much of what I've commented to you. We'll have to fix it. Well, I'll start at the beginning. He has started by speaking in his reply to the Constitution and that it was accepted. Well, I have to remind you that the Constitution was not accepted in my country, at Euskal Herria. On the subject of democracy you have appointed a report by The Economist. Well, in a quick look that we were able to do in a moment, while you were talking, we confronted the data, and it turns out that in February 2022 - the last report that there is - what comes to say TheEconomist of Spanish democracy is that it is defective, that is, it is not a full democracy. And what I have said - and I explain it to you again - is that this is a low-intensity democracy. And, I'm telling you, it's not that we just say it like that, it's that it's affirmed by various international bodies. But yet, by leaving aside this data, do you not believe that a full democracy would allow the citizens of the nations of this State to vote peacefully and democratically for their future to be decided upon? Scotland has done it and will do it again, why isn't it possible here? Don't you think that in a full democracy the Head of State could not be headed by an institution with conduct other than dubious legality and also instituted by a dictator? Don't you think that a full democracy would have no police apparatus that fabricated false evidence against political dissent, creating real plots more proper to mafias than to state apparatuses? Do you not believe that a full democracy will investigate and sanction the illegal practices of its large corporate corporations in market manipulation for their own benefit? No, Mr Sánchez, Spanish democracy is not full, but it is in your hand to change it. It is in his hand to initiate a genuine democratic transition that breaks with the past and creates the conditions for democratizing and regenerating this state and its inertias. And I repeat it to you - I have told you before, but I repeat it again -, on that road you will count on our accompaniment. He told me about NATO. I don't know... if 25 billion for defense isn't a belligerent exaltation, it looks quite like it. Harassing NATO leaders, a belligerent organization, I think it's just belligerent. And putting more effort into increasing military spending than promoting a diplomatic exit is more belligerent. This is what I think and that is what I have said, that efforts must be made and that depends on what is put in the front line of the effort. Europe. He has also said something that we are not Europeanists or has questioned whether or not we are Europeanists. Of course, but just the opposite is what I was saying. For what he advocated was precisely for European autonomy, for European autonomy not subordinated to the United States. Finally, another issue that you have spoken about which you have also understood me quite the reverse - I must have been a little busy today because you have understood everything the reverse - I have not said that the Spanish State and that you are taking steps back in the ecological transition, at all. What I was saying was that the winds in Europe were going in the wrong direction at the time. In fact, that is the last European decision to equate nuclear energy with green energy. That is simply what I was talking about, and that is a matter of concern. That's how it was. However, it has not answered the question that we are very concerned about, which is how they are going to prevent electricity and banks from lifting the announced taxes, as happened with the reduction of fuel. How are you going to avoid it? I will also respond to the issue of labour reform, as you mentioned it. Mr President, I am going to ask you to remain with a certainty: to defend the restoration of all rights stolen from the working class for decades, which is what we have done, will be an invariable constant in the political action of Euskal Herria Bildu, we are in the government or the opposition, and we will do so by consistency and principle. [[Applauds]] Finally, I am going to take a look at the future - as I have time - and I am going to repeat something that is very annoying to the right, which is that we have the will that this window of opportunity to which I have previously referred remains open, that this cycle of recovery of rights and freedoms for Basque citizens and the rest of the state can be extended, because, if not, authoritarianism, the cutting of rights and the nullification of freedoms will be the reality of the ultra-right hand. We are clear, very clear, that there is no possible alternative for it to pass through the far right, that we cannot allow the agenda for counter-reformation - the agenda of Francoism - to reign again, but to do so we must be bold. It's no longer worth the far right, it's no longer worth the flag of fear to prevent it. Now we must show those progressive and left-wing social majorities that it is worth maintaining this cycle because their lives are improving. We will do so in our country, in Euskal Herria, we will continue to articulate broad majorities that leave no room to the right and the right, but you must also do so in your own, because this challenge directly challenges us to the plurinational left forces; without a strong plurinational left majority, the advancement of rights and freedoms in this state will be in jeopardy, while consolidating it will entail gaining rights and curbing the right. We are clear, and that is why it is so important to expand and strengthen the joint work between us, between the multi-national progressive and left forces, because we are the guarantee for further progress and social conquests, new democratic solutions to the old national conflicts and we are also the anti-fascist wall that prevents the ultra-right from coming to power. Let us therefore act with the responsibility towards the citizenry that this historic moment demands of us all, and let us work for it. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, for me, the Spanish Constitution is a pride, so it is based on a premise that we do not share. For me it is a pride the Spanish Constitution, it is a pride Title VIII of the Constitution and everything we have achieved since then. [[Applauds]] In a hurry, Your Honor, you did not look closely at the data to which you referred earlier. Indeed, The Economist puts us together with France, the United States or Italy as defective democracies. Virtually all of us are because we all have to improve, but I have to tell you, as I mentioned in the first intervention, that in the field of political pluralism Spain, in that index, has a much higher rating than very consolidated democracies on our planet, such as the American, Italian or French. I would also like to say that one of the main indicators for democratic quality rankings, such as the University of Gothenburg, places us in the top ten of consolidated democracies in the world. And if we go, for example, to the functioning of the rule of law, according to another important entity that makes these rankings of democratic quality - World Justice Forum seems to me to be called, right now I have no clear name - we are above the United States, Italy and France. What do we have to improve? No doubt. In fact, in the ranking of The Economist that you mentioned earlier it is true that we are going down to defective democracy, and it also points out the blockade in the General Council of the Judiciary and in the Constitutional Court the reason why we are going down a post; it knows that they have names and surnames who are right now blocking that renewal, which is certainly not this government or the parliamentary majority that supports it. You make reference to the referendums, and it's okay. It should be remembered that Spain is the only country in the Atlantic Alliance that made a referendum to enter it. There has been, therefore, a majority support from Spanish society, which, on the contrary, is far from being reduced, as we have seen, for example, in a last demoscopic study by the Elcano Institute, where it says that 83% of Spanish citizens - that is, it is no different than what is thought - consider it a good thing that Spain belongs to this Atlantic Alliance. In any case, Your Honor, both you and others have asked me: why do you want to be remembered? I don't want to be remembered, what I want is for us not to forget who we rule for, and rule for the working middle class of this country. That is what we are doing, Your Honor, and the most eloquent example that I would like to share with you, for example, is that this is the Government that has devoted the largest number of economic resources to scholarships in our country, more than 2100 million euros, and in the debate on the state of the nation I have announced a strengthening of that scholarship policy with 100 euros more per month for all those scholarship recipients, i.e. over sixteen years, until 31 December. I am sorry that you have not understood this, and I share with you the concern that the conservative forces in the European Parliament have made it possible to incorporate investment in gas and nuclear as a green investment. In my opinion, that's greenwashing. The Spanish Government in the European Council has rejected it; in this case - I speak to you as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party - our Socialist Members voted against this measure. [[Applauds]] I was just commenting with the Vice-President for Ecological Transition, with Mrs Rivera, that regardless of what has unfortunately been taken as a decision on taxonomy, we in issuing green bonds are going to continue with the same criteria that we had before this unfortunate and sad vote in the European Parliament. But it was not the left forces, it was the conservative forces again that opened the door to putting gas or nuclear as green investments, when they are quite the opposite. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Joint Parliamentary Group... [[Mr Cambronero Piqueras asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Cambronero?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u75	By application of article 75.3 of the Rules of Procedure in relation to article 23 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u76	Mr Cambronero, as you know perfectly well, the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with its internal functioning, is the one who attributes the times and the one who distributes the times internally to the various members who belong to the parliamentary group. I believe that there is a virtually unanimous agreement in the distribution that has been stipulated in the parliamentary group, and you are not an intervener. In any case, and given the absolute exceptionality of the debate on the state of the nation, I will give you, out of time, three minutes for you to intervene from your seat, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u77	I understand that already.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u78	Yes, Mr Cambronero Piqueras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u79	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, first of all, for giving me these extra three minutes. It's something I didn't expect, so I don't have it specially prepared. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u80	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u81	First of all, however graceful I am to others, I have been deprived of the floor in this House for a year and a half, totally and absolutely arbitrary. My right of representativeness, recognized in article 23.1 of the Constitution, has been constantly violated in this House. There are countless records of what I have presented in it. And I'm going to use these three minutes, first of all, to tell you that I'm not going to keep a minute of silence because I respect the rules of the House, but I do want to pay a compliment to Lieutenant Colonel Pedro Antonio Casado of the Special Intervention Unit of the Civil Guard. It is an honour to have had such a hero, and in this House a compliment should have been paid. [[Applauds]] Thank you. As for the state of the nation, obviously in three minutes I cannot go into details, unfortunately, I wish I had many more, but I am going to continue with the activity that I am doing in this House in terms of public control, because it is indecent to see how ministers who are sitting down there are spending everyone's money on exclusive trips, which seem more holiday than travel, and which have absolutely nothing but compulsive spending and a terrible image for citizens, which puts much more distance between us and them. I would also like to denounce the situation in my province, Seville. In Seville, the infrastructure is totally and absolutely stopped, although it seems that the president is not interested, but it is important because he has just lost that province when it had never happened electorally. Seville is abandoned by this Government. Infrastructure has not been done or will be done during this parliamentary term and, of course, that has a cost, for all citizens in the first place, but also electoral, and you are suffering it - you have already seen it - in Andalusia. You have promised many things in this plenary. Obviously we have to develop them, we will have to see them, because they sound more like a kind of circus spectacle, of smoke, in order to precisely consolidate in power or to be able to rise even a little bit more. We will see it and vote in conscience, as I always do in this House. I will tell you a phrase that perfectly follows what you are doing at the head of this government. It's a phrase from Cicero: The closer the fall of an empire - his is not an empire, thank God - the crazier his laws are. And that's what he's doing. The end of his term of office is approaching, and so is his term of office, because it seems to me that the ballot boxes are going to be very clear. As I know you are going to spend time, because we have seen you on similar occasions, criticising my personal and legal position in this House, and not bother; I have really enjoyed much worse battles than you are and, of course, do not waste time on that. Really. I want to end by thanking all the citizens who daily - and there are not a few; more and more, fortunately - pass their questions to me. Tell your advisors, first, to try not to disrespect questions, which are already more than six hundred. And second of all, don't go on vacation because I'm gonna be looking forward to the BOE this summer. I would simply like to thank the President-in-Office of the House for giving me these three minutes. It's very graceful to the President. Well, tell the counselors he's gonna do little to them when they get the questions. [[Laughter]] Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Cambronero. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u83	Thank you, President. President, yesterday you made a diagnosis that put the weight on the war in Ukraine and the consequences of the pandemic, and we agree, but we think you lack enough elements in this diagnosis. First, the price of fuels was already fired before the war in Ukraine and has to do with an infinite growth model that is not viable. There is not enough gas and there is not enough oil to continue with the economic model, and neither the sun, nor the wind nor all renewable energies allow us to continue with this unsustainable model. When it refers to the benefits of banking, it seems that the banking system is neutral. This is not so, because, like everything else, it is the product of laws and regulations. For example, the great bailout to the bank cost €60 billion that was never returned to the citizenry. When you spoke of housing and the need for access to housing, you announced the construction of more than 10,000 housing units in Madrid. The fact that you are focusing on Madrid, which is like a resource vacuum in this state, is outrageous to the rest, but it is also absurd: the Spanish state does not need more housing, what is left to the Spanish state is the investment funds that accumulate empty housing, Mr President. You don't need to build, you need to recover the amount of empty housing. He was also talking about Europeanism and solidarity, but we did not hear any reflection on, for example, economic sovereignty, about what is happening in the southern part of Europe with the rules of the northern countries. Nor do we listen to him about the consequences of the European Union's migration policies, the latest facts in Melilla show this. He has already warned you that we are against the European Union and the market architecture, not Europe and its peoples. I say that because Bildu's partner has responded in this regard. It's not about this, it's about economic architecture focused on the interests of the markets. When you talk about inflation, you refer to war and the market, but forget to talk about speculation. Much of the price rise has to do with the speculation of those who do business with the goods of first necessity. If you lack half of the diagnosis, from our perspective, you will understand that the measures you announced yesterday - which we think are positive - lack half of the measures. If you continue to improve the fuel but do not limit the prices, it will pass what is happening now with the price of gasoline, which does not stop rising, and the truth is that Repsol announced some historical benefits. If you place a tax like that that you have announced to energy and fuel corporations but does not limit prices, it makes it easier for these companies to shift costs to other sites. I'll explain myself. If you were talking about picky powders, I might decide to stop buying picky powders, but you can't decide to stop consuming gasoline or light or water, Mr. President. If you do not limit the prices, they transfer the costs. And if you announce a scenario of price instability and do not regulate them, at least you have to raise wages. If inflation rises by 10 points and your labor reform only rises by 2%, you will understand that the accounts do not give. So that people understand us: if someone pays twelve pay, just as the prices are and just as the wages are, they stop paying a whole pay. People are not charging whole months because they do not arrive; therefore, if you do not regulate prices, you will have to raise the salary because otherwise, the accounts do not come out, President. In conclusion, you spoke many times about the uncertain future. Uncertainty is anxiety, it's lack of control. I think people are scared because they see how their life projects fade, and in the face of uncertainty, certainties are needed. From our perspective, certainties today have to do with sovereignty, they have to do with controlling the prices of housing, energy and commodities. They have to do with raising wages, they have to do with intervening in the energy and fuel market, with nationalising energy companies and key sectors, which have been privatized half-way between you and yourself since the 1980s. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] They have to do with regularizing people without papers. Can you imagine, with the anguish of rising prices, you also have to live in a kind of dystopia because you don't have papers? Regularize the people in the Spanish state without papers and bet on the decrease. There's no infinite energy. This is over. It's absurd to tell people that we can continue with a model that doesn't have enough energy of any kind. I bet on sovereignty and self-determination as the matrix of all rights. Sovereignty has to do with the ability to make economic policies and not be a Brussels branch, and it also has to do with national and popular sovereignty. You have national sovereignty, but you are doing the same as the European Union, which manages under a coup d'état; you do so under a coup d'état, turning your back on parliaments and popular sovereignty. What people, Mr President and Minister for Economic Affairs, need is not part of the free movement treaties of the European Union, nor is it part of their restrictive interpretation of a Constitution obsessed with national sovereignty if people, without the popular part. We want national, economic and popular sovereignty in order to legislate for our people. I ended up with an Eagleton date. He said: National autonomy does not automatically imply democracy, it is a necessary but not sufficient condition. You have national sovereignty, but you are not ruling for all people. We want popular sovereignty. Today, the independence project makes more sense than ever, because it is either ruling for people or ruling for markets, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, listening to you yesterday many people may have thought that you were possessed by the spirit of Pablo Iglesias, who had transmuted into the leader of a party on the far left, but no, you are still the same, the politician who is willing to do anything to survive. His speech was a disappointment. You have not proposed a single measure to combat inflation and you have not said anything that would improve the lives of Spanish citizens; quite the contrary, what you propose from populism will only bring us more impoverishment to the country. It has not proposed a single measure to solve the life of a self-employed person who has been doubled by the bill for light. It has given no solution to families, who no longer endure the price increase in the shopping basket. You have not said anything to transporters, taxi drivers, SMEs and self-employed, nor to the staff and self-employed of self-schools. What did he really say? That the government is going to charge banks and electricity for the next two years new taxes. And what does that have to do with fixing people's lives today? Do you think that giving 100 euros to the fellows three months and putting some free trains three months is fixing the disaster that lives in Spain? By the way, do you know that there are no trains in the Canary Islands? Are you going to pay 100 percent of the long-distance guaguas in the Canary Islands and the Santa Cruz-Laguna tram? Because, Mr. Sánchez, those are our surroundings. I, Mr Sánchez, at this point in my life, care less about politics than about the future of my country and the Canary Islands. What I see every day on the street and what I see in the people I talk to is that there is no future with you. Out there, Your Honor, there's a very real Spain where people can't anymore. Families are becoming poorer because prices have been triggered; businesses and self-employed people are tired of paying taxes and taking on the costs of crazy energy; pensioners can hardly afford food and rental costs. In the Canary Islands, which depends on imports, the cost of living has become unbearable; the risk of poverty already affects four out of ten people; inflation has destroyed the middle classes, and the cost overruns threaten the existence of thousands of self-employed and small businesses. That's right, tax collection is breaking record, governments are getting more and more and families are getting poorer. The world upside down, Mr. Sanchez. Do you remember what you were saying in La Palma? Do you remember what your government promised the palm trees? There are still hundreds of people living in hotels and many have not been able to return to their homes because of the gas; decent housing has not yet been obtained for those who lost it, not even temporary, and the damage caused to the island by the catastrophe has not been compensated. Palm trees have discovered in their own flesh that you do not fulfill what you say and that when there are television cameras ministers come like flies to honey, but when they leave they remain alone. Don't answer me what you've done, tell us what you and all the palm trees are going to do for the next three years. The island dies; palm trees need certainties. You announced to the Government of the Canary Islands that our islands would be present at the negotiating table with Morocco, and they are not, Your Honor. He has again failed to fulfil his word in a matter that is fundamental to the Canary Islands, but to you we are irrelevant; so irrelevant, that we were not even informed of his radical change of position on the Sahara. The air transport between the Canary Islands and the Peninsula is in the hands of an oligopoly, the ticket prices are a scandal and his government is consciously passively making business with the need of the Canary Islands and that for any Spanish it is an impossible luxury to visit our islands, cheaper for a German or a British. And it presumes the evolution of unemployment figures in Spain. What do you think of the fact that the Canary Islands still has 22% of the unemployed? Is this data fabulous too, Mr. Sanchez? Of course not. Mr President, the governments of Europe are alarmed by the energy crisis that can be experienced next winter and are making desperate plans to re-start coal power plants, talk of energy spillovers and are asking citizens for austerity measures and energy sacrifice. What will happen if Germany goes into economic recession? What can happen if Algeria and Russia cut off our gas supply? What are your plans in the face of an energy and economic crisis that can affect the whole of the European Union? Do you know what will happen to British and German tourism if that happens? Your plan, Mr. Sanchez, is that you have no plan. Your plan was always you. The path of yellow tiles that is his political life consists in that he is able to say one thing and do the opposite, and that, Your Honor, has made him someone no one trusts, to the point that a former Algerian minister is able to say that the problem of Algeria is not with Spain, but with Pedro Sánchez. The first socialist president of Spain in the 1980s modernized this country by making the economy work, the second ruined it and you are leading socialism towards irrelevance and the country towards disaster. You live worse today than before, Mr. Sanchez. Open your eyes and see what's going on outside the bubble of power you live in. Moncloa's message after the NATO summit was that Pedro Sánchez has become a global actor. I congratulate you, you can't say better. He has a government pact that's a fiction, because they don't agree on anything. It has a country that is on the verge of bankruptcy, but you believe that things are going better than ever and you believe that international success has been achieved because you have invited NATO countries and committed to spending money that you do not have. You're really an actor, the only thing that comforts you is that your role in this horror film that is Spain today has just over a year left, although at the pace of your disasters I don't know if we can handle it. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. I now give the floor to Mr Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It was about time, Mr Sánchez, four years ago it took us to convene the debate on the state of the nation, I imagine it would be because of the shame that made you discuss the Spain that you are leaving, and the truth is that I am not surprised. And it doesn't surprise me because in just four years you've managed to make us the worst economy in the European Union; you've made us hostages of thugs and batasuns; you've made lies the usual way of doing politics; you've perverted our institutions and democracy, jumping the General Council of the Judiciary, this Parliament, the National Intelligence Centre, the CIS, the Public Prosecutor's Office and even private companies with the money of all Spaniards, and you've dedicated yourself to making pacts with those who have no other goal but to divide us so as to dismember Spain in pieces. That is their unfortunate balance, that will be their contribution to Spain. When you leave the Presidency there will be no more balance sheet of your mandate than democratic involution, lies and ruin. What has undoubtedly shown this debate is, once again, its inability to solve the problems of the Spaniards. The measures you presented yesterday are just another example of propaganda, of smoke, of emptiness and of the nothingness in which you have installed the whole legislature, and our country no longer endures frivolity. We've been watching prices go up for months at a rate that we haven't seen in the past thirty-seven years, the Spaniards can't make the shopping basket, refueling at gas stations costs twice as much as last year, the companies are losing competitiveness, the self-employed are suffocated and can't anymore while they're waiting for you to raise their quotes, and many Spaniards are worried about the rise in interest on their mortgages. This is the real Spain, far away from the happy Arcadia that you and your absolut government sell us. And if we talk about Navarra, the situation is not much better. You have undoubtedly been the worst president of democracy for the interests of our community. Not a single investment of relevance, the European funds are going to pass through our land as if it were the foot of the lottery; that is, we are not going to find out. The only thing his presidency will serve is to have given us up to the Batasuns and to have fled the pacts that made us progress. The truth is that his entire legislature has devoted itself to trivializing the problems of the Spaniards and to settling down in propaganda. Well, in propaganda and stabbing among members of the government, because that's where you have to say that you have been especially transparent. While Spain was bled out in an economic situation that we could not bear, you were bled out too, but by quotas of protagonism or by ambition of power. When it wasn't Ukraine it was Melilla, when it wasn't NATO it was Algeria or the Sahara, when it wasn't the battle against the chopper it was defence spending, when it wasn't the Pegasus it was relations with the United States and when it wasn't the housing law it was tax reform. Thus it is impossible to govern a country. [[Applauds]] But it is true that you no longer care to rule, you only aspire to resist, even though the price of resistance is called Spain. But it's just that you don't care about Spain either, and proof of that are your miserable pacts. Yes, miserable, unworthy, creeping, nauseous, or petty, give him the word you want, because all that is what your covenants are. [[Applauds]] But not only are your pacts all that, but that's what they looked like to you too when your person told us to make a deal with Podemos would take away the dream, that the thugs weren't going to be pardoned or that not only was Bildu not going to negotiate but he wasn't going to sit down. St. Peter denied three times; Peter Sánchez, twenty. That's all the trust you can offer. But when we all already believed that sanchism could not impress us any more, you came here and drafted a law of dismemberment that they call democratic nothing more and nothing less than with Bildu. Tell me, Mr Sánchez, what does Bildu deserve more confidence in memory or democracy? Because, look, Mrs. Aizpurua - who came out here this morning and now she's not here, but let them know - says we don't listen to her when she talks. What I'm saying is that we listen to it, but that we don't hear it condemn terrorism, that's what we don't hear, that's the only totalitarianism we've suffered in a democracy in this country. [[applause]] There are 852 those killed by those with whom you agree, who applaud those who leave jails or make them the ongi etorri when they arrive in the different localities. It is also those who have raised a leader of the terrorist band ETA to the leadership of Sortu. For those who don't know, Sortu is a part of Bildu. Those are your partners. And when Mrs. Aizpurua spoke of the dissidence since 1978, of the attack on dissent, of course there has been an attack on dissent since 1978, the one that has made ETA to freedom, it is the murders that ETA has committed against all those we thought different and we wanted to defend a free country where one could disagree. That is the only dissent that has been attacked since 1978 in our country. [[Applauds]] That is why any Democrat gets his stomach upset when he listens here to a spokesman from Bildu pontificate about democracy and, above all, when he sees a president of the government patter with it. Look, this law makes Bildu very euphoric, and the euphoria of Bildu is the defeat of the Democrats, because when Bildu wins, Spain loses, and you have given too many victories to Bildu. But I'm going to tell you one thing, I've spoken to you before the economic problems of the Spaniards. Of those, this country will come forward, but there are some that will cost us much more: the ethical and moral degradation that you have installed in politics. But we will still go ahead, because this country is a great nation, it is the nation of the balconies, of the white hands, of the spirit of Ermua, it is the country that for so many times in its history has been able to recover with courage, courage and humility; that Spain that knows how to respect itself despite disagreement and knows how to understand itself despite the difference. But that Spain with you is not possible because it has buried the bridges of understanding and replaced them by the trenches of confrontation. But luckily for all Spaniards, their time is coming to an end. You are already just a lame duck that resists the end of the government, but there will be a day when citizens will go to the polls and their time will run out. Stop resisting and allow us to start building a future for Spain of progress and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u88	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u89	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, for following your script. First, in the PRC we have a rare habit of putting the general interest above the particular interests, and that is why we support the Government of Spain, its Government, to combat the pandemic. We also have a habit of being supportive of disasters, and that is why we have always supported the inhabitants of La Palma. And, also, in the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we have the custom of going against injustices and much more against destruction and massacres, like that of Ukraine, and that is why we have supported all the measures that have been taken from the European Union. And we have always considered the institutional stability of the governments, of Cantabria and of Spain as a priority, so, Mr President, you are lucky that we never have as our goal nor do we dedicate ourselves to deteriorating the work of the governments. We have been practicing it for twenty-five years in Cantabria, where since it ruled the PRC - when it entered the government with Miguel Ángel Revilla - there have been no institutional crises or scandals or corruptions, and we have ruled with the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Having said that, in this legislature we have not shared some of its measures, because they are unnecessary rules, removed from the majority feeling of the Spanish or against those affected themselves in order to content minority groups. We prefer the others; we are more concerned about inflation, the shopping basket or the electric bill. But we are the Regionalist Party of Cantabria and we are here to defend Cantabria's interests and demand that his party's commitments be fulfilled, so we have our voice and vote in this Congress. Thanks to our presence, things have been achieved that otherwise would not have been achieved, such as the payment of part of Valdecilla's debt, the beginning of the works of the La Hermida gorge or the payment of the VAT of 2017, which we had to claim in the courts. But it's not enough and we can't be satisfied. You guys keep saying you're not gonna leave anyone behind. Well, they're leaving Cantabria behind in terms of railways; we're the only community in the North without connection to the Atlantic Arc, we're off the basic network, from the Trans-European Transport Network, and we're on to 2050. This is something we cannot admit and, at the very least, you must really try, Minister, to include it in the mid-phase of the basic and global network between 2030 and 2040. On the other hand, the Government of Spain has an outstanding subject with the AVE since it stopped already in 2010 four phases of work awarded. Today, twelve years later, we demand that they speed up and compensate for the delays of these three years over their own commitments, those of this government. We have agreed on a new programming that is more accurate and more realistic with current times, and that is why I ask you, Mr Sánchez, to be personally aware of the fact that the agreement has been reached. That is why I reminded him of the importance of the Regionalist Party, with our voice and our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. The debate on the state of the nation is an extraordinary opportunity to update balances and raise issues of general political orientation. Mr Sánchez, under your presidency, the socio-economic situation has suffered from ravines that lead to the impoverishment of the Spaniards. Over the past five years, Eurostat indicators have placed Spain's economic growth on the Community's tail, the last in the European Union. Asturias is the model that reflects the worst impacts of its management because, although it is worth noting the unemployment data published last week, they are still very far from the figures before the 2008 crisis, with 33 000 contributors less and 11,000 more unemployed; which, aggravated by a constant population loss, with the most tragic and pronounced demographic fall, relegates the Principality to the red light in the labour force rate. In fact, the last EPA carried out by the National Statistical Institute, before the government took it to the assault, placed Asturias at the head of the job destruction in the first quarter of the current year, and we have 15 000 industrial workers less than in 2008. Recently, Alcoa's were lost, today they are threatened in Saint-Gobain and a disturbing 20 % job cut in ArcelorMittal is predicted on account of the decline in steel production. Mr Sánchez, in your investiture you proclaimed that this would be the legislature of autonomous financing. Moreover, he then assured here that it was necessary to approach without delay. His flagrant resignation perpetuates the disastrous reform of the system perpetrated by Rodríguez Zapatero, which underfunded health, education, social services and dependency. By the way, despite the critical shortage of healthcare professionals, PSOE and Podemos have been holding back for the past year and a half here in Congress, the bill's handling to increase the nursing ratio. In Langreo, the complex completed four years ago for the care of people with neurological disabilities is totally wasted, although socialist propaganda spread that this state center was to be one of the most advanced in the world, both in the treatment and in the investigation of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Ladies and gentlemen of the blue bank, the galloping Asturian demographic ageing, of the most accused in Europe, is combined with a brutal youth exodus due to a lack of employment opportunities. The rural environment is exposed by the lack of adequate services and infrastructure. On the southwest highway, the works advance to trompicones. The two ports of El Musel and Avilés are discriminated against with respect to other large port spaces and relegated to high capacity road links and railways in standard width. Cynically, the Government points out as its own the colossal work of the railway variant of Pajares that the PSOE has always rejected and that it is the product of the commitment and of a plan that the Council of Ministers of José María Aznar approved to communicate Madrid with the capital of Asturias, Oviedo, in less than two and a half hours. Now they're gonna give us a cat for hare. The network of proximity is abandoned. The agreement for the urban integration of the railway in Gijón has gone back to the exit box. Farmers survive in despair. The protection of the Iberian wolf is outraged at all affected territories. This is a further setback for Vice-President Ribera, whose echo fundamentalism also led to the disruption of Spain's energy sovereignty, closing coal mining, condemning the basins to its desertification and closing the thermal power plants of electricity generation without alternative for the affected regions. Now, while towers and chimneys are flying in Spain, coal is being used as never before in other European countries. Finally, I will put forward several motions for resolutions to urge the Government to resolve pressing problems in infrastructure, energy and industry that limit economic and employment growth throughout Spain, but only in Asturias. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Finally, Mr. Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u93	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, yesterday you forgot about the people of 70% of the country who do not use neighbourhoods or will not have access to the public housing they announced for the Community of Madrid, unless, of course, they emigrate here, which would be a so-called effect. Obviously, the measures that will enable us to overcome the new energy, economic and geopolitical crisis are important, but this task must certainly go hand in hand with the overcoming of this structural crisis that leads to deficiencies in territorial cohesion. Political measures cannot forget empty Spain, but integrate its problems and vision. The actions cannot be built exclusively from a centrist urban perspective and it is therefore essential that housing plans are not limited to Madrid, but also reach and adapt to the rural environment, with rural protected housing plans - which do not exist - that prioritize rent and rehabilitation with sufficient volume for actions in the small villages to facilitate the settlement of the population, and measures that improve energy efficiency and connectivity. Similarly, specific support for mobility in rural areas is needed by maintaining bus stops and by creating - we propose - an energy bonus that compensates for the absence of public transport and increased energy consumption. We also hope that the new CAP announced will correct the historical rights and mistakes in the allocation of strata, as well as the discrimination of territories, as is the case with Teruel. Teruel Existe supported the investiture with an agreement with the PSOE, whose partial and incomplete compliance shows unfair and asymmetrical neglect by the Government. In the face of that failure, we have done so. We have maintained a position of constructive criticism, identified problems and put forward numerous solutions. We have proposed a state pact against depopulation and for territorial rebalancing, as well as the need to set up a rural guarantee mechanism. Both initiatives have the majority support of the House and we therefore demand that the Government act now. The orderly development of renewable energies, the participation of local communities in benefits, self-consumption and distributed generation are social concerns that Teruel Existe has brought to the House and require government response. On the other hand, we are not alien to the difficulties that have arisen in the legislature that have forced us to implement emergency policies, which we have always supported for the common good. However, none of these circumstances can serve as an excuse not to address structurally and simultaneously the territorial cohesion and problems of emptied Spain. They still do not explain, for example, why they do not put in place aid for the operation of enterprises in very sparsely populated areas - Cuenca, Teruel and Soria - which are included in the budgets of 2022, which are essential to boost their productive fabric, generating employment and improving wages, and to repopulate these abandoned provinces. Teruel is still the only provincial capital with no direct connection to Madrid either by train or by highway. Can you commit to the arrival of the Talgo 730 hybrids that would allow that connection via Zaragoza, avoid transhipments and shorten a trip with a duration of the nineteenth century? We also appreciate you to accelerate the development of the cantabrian-mediterranean rail corridor and to maintain the conventional train Valencia-Utiel-Cuenca-Tarancón-Madrid and to complete other infrastructures, such as the informative study of the A-68, the planning of the A-40, the A-25 or the execution of six variants of the localities crossed by the N-211. We are seriously concerned about this tendency to turn our objectives into exercises of parliamentary rhetoric and simultaneously ignore them in each of the policies, in the budgets and in the action of the General Administration of the State on a daily basis. Mr President, specific questions: are you going to integrate the essential overcoming of the structural crisis in the forgotten territories into all the measures announced in your speech? Are you going to apply the operating aid for companies in Soria, Cuenca and Teruel, as authorised by the European Commission? Finally, are you going to comply with the points of the investiture agreement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much to the members of the Joint Parliamentary Group for their interventions. I will be brief with Mr Cambronero and Mr Sayas. Mr. Cambronero has had his three minutes of glory. To Mr Sayas, I simply have to say that there are few more petty things in politics than betraying your acronyms, your ideas and your colleagues. [[Applauds]] To Mrs Vehí of the CUP, I must say that in the area of housing - I said earlier - the Government of Spain is allocating in the housing plan 2022-2025 a sum of EUR 10 billion, above all in order to have that public social housing stock. And it should be remembered that in this housing plan we are already incorporating that the big forks will allocate housing for social rent. I am saying this more than anything so that I can also see that from this Government we are trying to give a social response to one of the main problems that our young people, namely housing, have in particular. On the energy market, I believe, ladies and gentlemen - I have said it many times, but I will repeat it - that the Government is intervening in the field of its competences in the energy market. We are lowering the VAT from 10 % to 5 % - before it was 21 % - is a reduction of 80 % of the VAT from the light. This reduction will reduce the bill to 27.7 million households, self-employed and businesses. It's obvious the damping, I've said it on many other occasions. With all the measures we are putting in place by 31 December 2022, we will contain inflation by 3.5 points. That is to say, today it would not be 10%, but it would be even 14% or 15% without the measures being implemented by the Spanish Government. And we have also put in place measures to protect the most vulnerable population as a result of rising energy prices, with the thermal social bond, with the electric social bond and also with the creation of the minimum vital to consume energy. You reflect on national sovereignty and I think it has sounded - if I may say so - a little strange, because it is true that we have been in a pandemic for two and a half years, where clearly if something has been shown is that national sovereignty has a limitation when it comes to responding to a global disease such as that of COVID-19 and, therefore, what we have to do is to articulate and strengthen all multilateral mechanisms. That is what the Spanish Government has done, for example, with the World Health Organization or, for example, now, after what we are seeing in the crisis in Ukraine, the war in Ukraine, how Russia is blocking the export of many of Ukraine's cereals and wheat, how there have been countries that are closing borders in the face of the food crisis in the export of these goods, and also how important the World Trade Organization is to give a multilateral response to a global crisis, such as the food crisis. Therefore, after a pandemic and, now, after a war that is threatening not only the security of Ukraine, of Europe, but also global security, with all the economic and social replicas that it has in the form of crisis, talking about national sovereignty to me seems to me to be from another century, ladies and gentlemen. The different question is that from the Spanish Government we should do everything and more, as I have committed myself to do, to try to cushion the effects of this crisis on the population. Secondly, to make a fair sharing of this crisis with the fiscal reforms that I have announced during this debate and, thirdly, to continue to anticipate that future to which we want to walk, which is an energy system based on renewable energy, green hydrogen or also on efficiency, autonomy and energy saving. That is where the Spanish Government is going and where I believe the whole of Spanish society is going. And, of course, when we talk about sovereignty, we have to talk more about European sovereignty and less about national sovereignty. More European sovereignty because in order to strengthen our national sovereignty in the response to the crisis we will have to strengthen, and much, European sovereignty, which is precisely what Putin is trying to call into question. I'll tell Mrs. Oramas I don't quite understand where you were yesterday. I saw it present in the Chamber, but I understand that it has not paid attention to many of the measures that I announced yesterday and that will be validated-I hope - in the morning with the royal decree law, measures that are not smoke, that have a strong positive impact on Spanish citizens. I am talking about policies that have to do with the freezing of the price of butane, policies that have to do with direct aid for transport, the agricultural sector, the fisheries sector, policies that have to do with the selective reduction of taxes, policies that have to do with the increase in non-contributory pensions or minimum living income, policies that ultimately affect the benefit of the working middle class and the most vulnerable groups. Now, does all this seem to you to be clearly insufficient or not having a positive impact on the day-to-day lives of our citizens? Well, it's your right to say it, but I don't share it. The different question is that, indeed, I have the same appreciation as you, and that inflation is diminishing the purchasing capacity of our fellow citizens and that from all levels - the national, the European and the multilateral - we have to respond to a crisis caused by a war conflict in Europe, as you well know, because, after all, after all, when you referred to what is happening in Europe by referring, for example, to alerts in Germany about precariousness or energy shortages as a result of a potential cut in the supply of gas by Russia and Germany, what you are doing is implicitly acknowledging that we are talking about a global crisis, in particular, Europe, and therefore we are also affected by this issue. On public transport, Your Honor, Ceuta, Melilla, Canarias, Balearic Islands already have a 75% discount on tickets for plane and boat trips. And on the island of La Palma, Your Honor, I must say that next July 27th the bilateral cooperation commission between the Canary Islands and the State will meet for the island of La Palma. I will try, at least, that some data will allow you to have a somewhat more positive assessment than you have put forward here. We have mobilised more than EUR 400 million in aid, 73% of the total budget, which amounts to EUR 550 million. This aid has already benefited more than 16,400 families, businesses and farmers In addition, through Royal Decree Law 11/2002 of 25 June, certain measures were adopted and extended to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, with the prospect of the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma present. On 7 June, the Special Commissioner for the Reconstruction of the Island of La Palma was established. A special plan for tourist recovery was also approved, which includes, among other measures, the drawing of 20,000 vouchers valued at 250 euros to redeem in tourist establishments in La Palma and, for the time being, 13 000 vouchers have been drawn from more than 165 000 participants. The Government has already transferred a total of EUR 13 million to the Canary Islands Autonomous Community for direct aid to entrepreneurship; also, the holding of various events to attract this tourism to the island of La Palma and we have, of course, addressed the emergency of the planning of the reconstruction of La Palma in a coordinated way with the rest of the administrations. I believe that it is also a good example of cooperation between governments of different colours, of different political signs, as we have had, for example, with different municipalities, with the lobby of the island of La Palma and with the Government of the Canary Islands. I must say to Mr Mazón that, as far as the AVE is concerned, during this parliamentary term I believe that we have given a strong impetus to the development of the railway connections of the Palencia-Aguilar line of Campoo-Reinosa, which will unite Cantabria and the Meseta. It is true that Mr Revilla - and I quote his words textually - has acknowledged that there are delays that are justified in the high-speed stages in Palencia, but I believe that everything is on the right track. As he said, everything is generally going at an appropriate pace and fulfilling commitments. For now, I have to tell you that, from the point of view of the work in the service of closeness in Cantabria, it is expected that in this second trimester the duplication of road between Muriedas and Santander will be resumed and another between Guarnizo and Renedo will be started. At the same time, the feasibility study and alternatives for the new railway connection between Santander and Bilbao have been presented, for which investment will be necessary between EUR 2500 and EUR 31 billion. As you well know, the works of the La Hermida gorge have begun. We have awarded the feasibility study of the intermodal station of La Pasiega, which is a very dear project for the president and for the government of Cantabria, and we are working on the doubling of the route between Torrelavega and Santander. In short, Your Honor, I believe that with much effort among all of us we are making investments that have not been seen in Cantabria for a long time. [[Applauds]] On what Mr Oblanca has said, I think we are betting on the growth of key industrial activity in Asturias. And linked to what? Firstly, renewables, electric cars, in this case the buses, the green steel industry - I have, of course, had the opportunity to meet on several occasions with the managers of ArcelorMittal - and secondly, with a decided bet by the Government of Spain in Asturias, together with the Government of Asturias, on green hydrogen. As for the key role in gas logistics, to which you have previously referred, it is we who have solved and facilitated a key exit to an infrastructure that has been paralyzed for eight years, which is El Musel, in Gijón, and that will have now activated the regasification of Enagas at the end of the year. We believe that it is going to play a very important role in this tough European episode and that it is going to be a logistics base for gas storage as well as a logistics base for gas to the rest of Europe. With this, I believe that we are counting on Asturias and that we are also doing so, Your Honor, betting on its reindustrialisation and its energy transition. I want to tell Mr Guitarte that the commitment to rural mobility is clear. I was told by the Vice-President of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge that at the rural mobility table between the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda and the MIXTECO, new solutions will be put forward that are appropriate to reality. There are some plans for the public fleet of electric cars, also bus lines, and solutions designed on a scale and with local actors and autonomous communities. And with regard to housing, which you referred to earlier, I would like to say that we have always taken it into account. I believe that this government has been the first to take the demographic challenge seriously, thanks also to the contribution of political groups such as yours. In March 2021 we adopted a plan of measures of 130 policies to accelerate the response to the demographic challenge, with a budget allocation of EUR 10 billion from now until 2024. And in this context we are taking into account the reality of the problem of housing in rural areas and also urban transformation. I will simply give you two data that will transfer me from the various ministries: in 2021, as you well know, first, the Energy Rehabilitation Programme for existing buildings in population-challenged municipalities was launched, with EUR 150 million of investment to improve the energy efficiency of housing and enterprises in rural areas; and second, the State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025, which includes a programme to assist in the acquisition of housing for young people in municipalities or cores of population equal to or less than 10,000 inhabitants. With this, Your Honor, with all the difficulties, we are trying to respond and also have a demographic challenge perspective to all this problem arising from the energy crisis. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u97	Thank you, President. Mr President, you say it is strange that we should talk about national sovereignty, when what we should do is talk about European sovereignty. But it is that our project of self-determination is fundamentally internationalist and, therefore, it is absurd for you to oppose the idea of Europe. In fact, we at the investiture told him that you were part of the problem in relation to Catalonia and the Catalan countries, but we also told him that we were willing to rectify if necessary. But, look, the dialogue table doesn't work. You have not repealed the law gag and you want us to make a reform that we do not know well how it will end, and you continue with a corrupt monarchy, you even accompanied the emeritus escape. In fact, you referred to Catalonia yesterday from the concept of an emotional gap. In Catalonia and the Catalan countries there is a gap, the poverty gap, Mr Sánchez, the inequality gap, and it seems that its shift to the left will not solve it. You in thirty minutes of meeting with Biden went out announcing an increase in military spending that will cost us 12 billion euros. With what you announced yesterday, with the investment in housing that you told me before 10 billion euros, with the taxes that you announced yesterday, which seems to be going to raise 3.5 billion euros a year, compare. Mr Sánchez, your left turn has enough military, more military turn than left turn, and the social gap that Catalan countries have, poverty, is solved with sovereignty and economic policies for people and not for businesses.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. I must remind you once again that whenever I speak of any State institution, I must do so from respect. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I thank you for the tone, but I correct you in the first place: you have not helped 16,000 families in La Palma, but in 1600; there are not 16,000 families in La Palma. The first thing I wanted to say to him is that there is nothing that bothers us more than the canaries told by the governments or the ministers who have just arrived: We have to see how much the canaries cost us. For you to know, at the moment the tickets are 800 euros, about 1500 euros costs to go from Madrid to the Canary Islands. The companies are scamming him, I told Mr. Ábalos at the time, they haven't put up the price observatory. And it's not 75%, it's that the student boys are paying 400 euros. And I'll meet, if she wants it, with the new Minister of Development to tell her where the company fraud is. Secondly, do you know that freight in the Canary Islands has risen by 500 %, that everything comes in by boat? Also, the prices for the transport of goods which according to the statute and the REF have to pay one hundred per cent are old-fashioned reference prices. We will support the decree, we are serious people, we are not in opposition, we support everything that is good for this country. That decree extends that of La Palma, but the majority is VAT in candy, in the other and the other, which does not affect us. The composition of the Canary Islands price is for other things. We are going to make some important motions for resolutions for La Palma and for all the canaries. I ask you to look at them. He did not reply to why the Canary Islands has not been at the negotiating table with Morocco, either in the Interior or in the Foreign Office, which was a commitment to Ángel Víctor Torres and the Government of the Canary Islands, nor did he reply to the issue of why the REF, the statute and the transfers have not been complied with in this Congress. Of course, on the coast it's been two years, but there's also the airport theme. I'm done, Madam President. I'm not the enemy, Mr. Sanchez. At this point in my life, all I want - and I thank you for the tone you used - is for us to agree on a very difficult situation in La Palma. Don't tell me what you've done. In La Palma people are desperate because they have uncertainty about the future. Let's sit down, be able to give the palm trees certainty so they don't have to go back with the suitcase to emigration. In the previous oil crisis of the 1970s, one hundred thousand canaries left for Venezuela; one hundred thousand canaries. Let it not happen again because we have not prepared the Canarian economy with the same tools as the rest of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, it's worse to betray voters. I understand that you can't understand. That is, the one who said that he was not going to deal with Podemos, that he was not going to be in his government; that he was not going to deal with Bildu, twenty times, a hundred times, how many times do you want me to tell him? or that he said that under no circumstances should we pardon the Catalan coupsmen, obviously he cannot understand that voters cannot be lied to. [[Applauds]] But I'll tell you more. You're ruining the Spanish middle class. These days there is much talk of the Spanish middle class; it is ruining it. You've managed to make it a luxury trip for people to go to town this weekend. It's just that people can't even do that! There are many people, many families this year, this summer, who will not be able to go on vacation; this is the first time they will not be able to go on vacation. And what measures have you taken? He says he's going to raise taxes on the banks, which, in turn, are going to impact on those people who won't be able to go on vacation. He's not solving anything. Sure, then there's the other part. We know what's going on. You every time we go out here you say - you said it yesterday too -: ETA does not exist. He likes to say that too. So, if ETA doesn't exist, why did you change ETA prisoners for budgets? And if ETA does not exist, why do tributes to the ages allow? [[Protests.-Applause.]] And if ETA doesn't exist, why are they still painted now ETA? And if ETA doesn't exist, why do you feel sorry for the death of an age? Or do you feel sorry for the death of all the Spaniards? [[The applause continues]] And if ETA does not exist, why do we continue to endure incidents on July 7 in the San Fermín procession, if ETA does not exist? Of course there is. What happened is that the sin you have is that twenty-five years ago your priority partner, the most supportive one is giving you in this House, was lying on a beach waiting for Miguel Ángel Blanco to be killed. [[A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: What a shame!-Applause.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u102	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u103	And while, to the party of Miguel Ángel Blanco, councilman of the People's Party who was tortured and murdered for defending the freedom and unity of Spain, you tell him that he is left in this country and that he is in hindsight. That's the problem you have. Thank you very much. [[Protests.- Prolonged applause of several ladies and gentlemen, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u104	Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u105	Mr Sánchez, I will give you more of your main commitments. One, Valdecilla's debt remains partly outstanding. The agreement provides for payment in four years of the total cost of the investments made. The PP failed, but 33 million of the 1999 disaster is still pending. Two, the agreement established that the works of the Bilbao Santander railway will be tendered in 2023, which is impossible now. We are following the information study step by step, but the second phase has to be adopted this same year. Three, in the AVPalenciaAllar del Rey, already delayed this year, have to bid the two remaining sections until Alar del Rey. And four, of course, the closeness plan, which is also their commitment, and which continues to be abandoned year after year. We assume the delays, we know where we are, but on the readjustment we will no longer admit any further delays. You know how we act when our conditions are not met, and I think that meeting them would be a very good thing for something that many people are questioning, which is their personal credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u107	Actually, you haven't answered any of the questions I asked you. I understand that ministries move issues almost bureaucratically. He asked the ministries because in the ministries we find that there is a lot of inertia, that political orders are not always obeyed, and this should not continue. We believe that Spain must make the effort to get out of this very important crisis by simultaneously solving the digital divide, which must really be made, because if not, the problem will be even worse and virtually irresolvable. I understand that these timed conversations cannot give much of themselves. If you have a gap in your agenda, I would ask you to have a mid-hour meeting to clarify many of these issues of operation and compliance with the investiture agreement, which is not going along the path that was to be expected. When we propose that structural measures are needed, we are referring to serious structural measures to change the country's guidelines; we are referring, for example, to the strategic industrialization that must be done in the territories of emptied Spain. We mean, for example, that the process of deconcentration of the Administration is really serious and well-founded and does not stop at the slightest opposition. We are referring, for example, to measures as far-reaching as operating aid for our three provinces most affected by the depopulation process, as the European Union recognises, are not a graceful concession, but a right of those territories, as they have other rights in Europe, and a competitive advantage that the country could have and that it does not know how to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say to Mrs Vehí that I do not share her view of what European sovereignty or Spanish sovereignty represents. I believe that the lesson we have to learn both from this crisis and also from the pandemic is that we have to work together, that we have to work together and that identities are not going to make us reduce inequality, it is precisely social policy, and I believe that the Spanish Government is demonstrating with actions and facts that we are committed to the main task ahead, which is the fight against inequality. I would like to say to Mrs Oramas that I thank her for the tone too, that I do not consider her, at all, my enemy. I've never done it, Your Honor, and besides, you know it. Neither you nor any of the three hundred and fifty Members have I ever considered to be my enemies or enemies. I understand, according to what I hear in some other speakers, not in you, that they take me for an enemy, but they do not. And, of course, I will be aware of what resolutions you are putting forward, and I hope that we can come to terms with your political formation, because I think it is good for the Canary Islands and it is good for the whole country as well. Anyway, to Mr. Adanero, what to say, that after Cambronero and Sayas only you were missing. Finally, the tone is rising with you, but the quality of the debate, Mr Adanero, is falling a lot. [[Applauds]] And to Mr Guitarte and Mr Mazón I must say that I am grateful, and very grateful, for the always constructive attitude they have had. We will comply, Mr. Mazón, with our commitments; Mr. Guitarte, we will also comply with the commitments. I believe that we have shown that the policy of demographic and rural challenge is a State policy. We have put economic resources, we have also incorporated the vision of territorial cohesion into the implementation of European funds. I am convinced that there is much to be done, but, in any case, if it seems to you, both with the third vice-president and with the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, you can have meetings to see how we can unravel some of the issues you raise. And with this, ladies and gentlemen, this intervention would end. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. We begin the last intervention in the debate of the state of the nation with a taste and a contradictory feeling: on the one hand, the President of the Government raises to the House all the measures that have been implemented during this legislature, commitments of the present and also of the future, strategy and project of the country, and, on the other hand, we have warned a misinterpretation of what is the debate of the state of the nation with only one objective, which is to continue to charge against the Government of Spain. Some even want to turn the House into a barter - something we are really worried about - by defaming and guiding the action of the Executive to the extremes never seen before in this House, something that we certainly reject de facto in the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Having said that, he has been a member of this House since 2019, since the April 2019 elections and, subsequently, since November 2019, the second general elections won by the Socialist Party. In the debate of investiture the Socialist bench suffered all kinds of insults and disqualifications: cowards, hypocrites..., all kinds of insults and disqualifications. I thought, as a new Member, that it was a point of order and that those of us who are part of this House really have an obligation to dignify political activity, political exercise since construction. [[Applauds]] Nothing further from reality. Nothing further from reality. Here, unfortunately, we see political parties that alone and exclusively pursue power by power. They do not care about all the citizens of this country. They put, to the desperate, to come to power at any price. And if for that it is necessary to go against the general interests, against the measures that are good for the whole of Spain, they do so without repair. If for that it is necessary to go to ETA eleven years later and that in the debate of the state of the nation more than half the time of the main opposition party is dedicated to ETA, it says a lot of what the People's Party represents today in Spain!, a lot. [[Applauds]] Very much of what the People's Party represents in Spain. Allow me, colleagues, to recognize the extraordinary work that you have done during this legislature and that you continue to do. It is an honour for me to lead this parliamentary group; an honour that leads us to pass laws that are vertebrate and very important to our country, even in extreme situations. Here what happens to the right of this country and what represents the right of this country will not solve it with changes of leadership. They did so in February in a hasty manner, quickly and urgently, they made the change of leadership, but in what they have not fallen into the People's Party it is that they have no project, that they have no country project, because they have demonstrated it here, in this debate of the state of the nation. What vertebrate measures have they raised in this debate beyond launching one and the other attack on the Government? The answer is very simple: absolutely nothing but measures that clash frontally with the main international agencies, because that mantra that we are going to lower taxes, that massive drop in taxes, clashes with what the International Monetary Fund, even the Bank of Spain, says. Be a little serious and rigorous with all the Spaniards; we no longer ask them too much. They even move forward, and they did so from the very beginning, since 2019, doubting the legitimacy of this government. Calling on what is not well known, they do not respect the will of the citizens of our country from the very beginning, reflected in the ballot boxes democratically. They take it very badly to lose elections, and they constantly transfer it in their public statements and also in their votes in this House. For us it is a real aberration not to be able to count in extreme situations like those we have lived with the main opposition party. We are talking about a global pandemic of colossal dimensions that paralyzed and shut down Spain, Europe and the world, and in front of that we find ourselves on the right boycotting each and every one of the steps the government was taking. That is regrettable, deplorable and, of course, we are going to denounce it and we are going to remind it constantly. They will pass into history by being on the dark side when Spain most needed them, most needed them! [[Applauds]] And those insults, insults, insults and disqualifications are repeated, repeated and repeated. In addition, they allow the luxury of insulting government presidents, and today I want to claim them. The president of the government, Pedro Sánchez, has been very well involved here in the work done to deal with terrorism in our country, with the lehendakari Patxi López and also with President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and the work that Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba did. The license is allowed to constantly attack an extraordinary president of the government by making parallels, and I speak of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, a man who during two legislatures, winning democratically the elections, endowed this country with rights and freedoms, and deserves respect from the right represented in this House, and also from those who smile at democracy in a derogatory tone! [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect democracy; respect for a party with a hundred and forty-three years of history that has done so much for this country as to vertebrate the state of autonomy, the state of well-being and bring Spain to the forefront of Europe and the world in all areas of public management. I am surprised that they draw an apocalyptic scenario in all areas, in each and every one of them. When you come up to this rostrum, I am absolutely convinced that you are praying for Spain to go into recession and for us to have a galloping crisis that will put an end to the well-being of our society as a whole; you do so, because you say so. And I'm going to tell you, you warn us that we are going to go into recession in September, you advance all possible fatal scenarios for Spain, which do not correspond to the main indicators of the OECD - and here is the first vice president - or of the International Monetary Fund itself, but it doesn't matter to you. They don't even care about creating uncertainty in the entire population of this country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not the same as you. We're not the same as you. The thief thinks that they are all of his condition, and that is not the case. When we have been in the opposition, the Socialist Party has acted with a sense of state and loyalty, something we have not seen in the People's Party. And I will remind you that this government, so attacked by the opposition of this country, in what has focused each and every one of your efforts is to provide more instruments, more resources to the whole population of Spain, for example, by eliminating pharmaceutical co-operatives, universalizing the health that you have dedicated yourself to shrinking, by promoting laws as important and vertebrate as that of science, by providing public health services with more resources and better means. That is the work that the Spanish Government has done during this parliamentary term. And for the sake of evil, something in which I have made special emphasis on numerous interventions: never before, never before!, foreign policy was used as a bold weapon against the Government of Spain, and this with the previous leader of the PP Pablo Casado and with the continuity of Núñez Feijóo we see it one day and another too. How is it possible for the main opposition party to tell a country that the Spanish Government does not represent the Spanish? But are you aware of the seriousness of these statements? Are you aware of the gravity and what that means for Spain? [[Applauds]] I tell you, they're not conscious because they don't care. And in the face of the steps the Spanish government took, with the president at the head, to deal with this pandemic, the answer was: well, the government parapets in science, the government makes no decisions. And they were fighting, and they are still doing, to counter measures to protect the whole population, raising the constitutional extension of the state of alarm, putting the entire population of this country at risk. Inadmissible! Inadmissible, ladies and gentlemen! There we show the difference, and we do not make parallels or compare, but we are very clear, very clear and very forceful: of course we act differently. Of course we act differently. In front of an unprecedented social shield to protect the whole population, in front of programs such as ERTE to maintain the economy, in front of ICO credits to cover the whole business fabric, in front of an effort of the public as never before made any government in Spain, the opposition was turning its back on the government and all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] That's what happened. That's what happened. They were even allowed, minister, to criticize the vaccination strategy of the Government of Spain. It is that we have reached unexpected, unattainable limits never before in democracy in our country. Absolutely everything was criticized. Then, when it was shown that the vaccination process was a success, that we were referenced precisely for the whole of Europe in that vaccination process, like the ostrich, they hide their heads. Unfortunately, in the face of all this we have experienced, the last thing we needed to hear in this state of the nation debate was how they accuse this Government of having a different treatment for migrants according to their origin. That's inadmissible. And we will never accept the lack of respect for this party and for this government when there is a government that has been characterized by solidarity, humanity and services made available to other countries in a phenomenon as global, as complex as migration, is that of the Socialist Party! [[Applauds]] And here there are ministers who have given their face, and in what way, to meet this challenge: José Luis Escrivá, the Minister of Defense, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, providing resources reception centers that dismantled the People's Party... And I want to remind those who demagogy the migratory phenomenon which is an exercise of irresponsibility supine that we are not going to comply, that we are not going to understand as a critical policy exercise. We understand this, indeed, as an unprecedented exercise of populism in our democracy. This Government has taken many steps and has been courageous, and I and our parliamentary group draw attention to how our President of the Government is a respected, valued, European and international president. And this spokesman does not say so, says the President of the European Commission, says the President of the European Council and so many other international leaders, that if you were in this House you would not give credit for the amount of manure that you are constantly throwing at this government. It is unacceptable, and I will make something clear to you in the intervention I am taking: we are going to face this hemorrhage of insults and disqualifications with social democratic policies, with policies that defend the whole population. We will not enter into that dynamic of destruction that you seek. They already said it once: let Spain fall that we will already raise it. Spain won't fall. Spain will emerge very strongly from this situation, also from this war conflict, where we are up to the occasion, and the President of the Government has also been up to it, not only with a compromise, and the compromise has not been at the NATO Summit. Since the beginning of the fatal war in Ukraine, provoked by an autocrat, Spain has pledged to rise to the occasion and to face a challenge that is not territorially unique and exclusively confined to Ukraine; it is a challenge to Western democracies, and we are aware of the challenge that it also poses for our country, and there will be Spain, and there will be our Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen and heard in this debate of the state of the nation all kinds of attacks, but few gestures of reaching out and exemplary, very few, especially on the part of the right. They go up here and systematically attack the Government, beyond appealing to ETA, beyond insulting, beyond asking for resignation, beyond all that, but few explanations give to the whole citizenry. For example, why do you want to maintain a judicial power in the anomaly you are currently in? That is a direct question to the People's Party. Why don't you respect the rules of the game? Why don't they assume the constitutional mandate? Why are they happy in this situation of institutional instability for the judiciary in our country? Maybe it's because they're interested in maintaining a conservative majority? Perhaps because if Spain has shortcomings in the consideration of a full country, of full democracy, you are also happy in those kinds of considerations? Few contributions, let alone none, are being made to make Spain stronger at European and international level. Here we have tried actively and passively and there have been numerous excuses, short regattas, kicks in the ankles that have given this Government to avoid taking steps that the Constitution determines as fundamental and essential. But aggression does not end here, it does not end here the exercise of extreme demagogy to which we have been subjected - and I say well, submitted - in this debate on the state of the nation. I have appealed to aspects that I believe are fundamental to our management, where Spain, the Government of Spain, the Government led by Pedro Sánchez and all its ministers and ministers have prioritized the management of the public on strictly partisan, electoral issues, and if anything has characterized us it has been institutional stability. In the face of all the aggressions, from the first coalition government in democracy, which gave it an expiry date of three months, six months, nine months, what have we offered? Alternatives, stability. What have you done? Breaking autonomous governments where they ruled. For what? To precipitate elections and generate instability, showing that for you the whole population is not a priority, that for you the priority is to have power, whether you do it or not, is to have power at any price. [[Applauds]] I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why you did not vote for the increase in the inter-branch minimum wage. Why did they not support the revaluation of pensions? Why did they not support a law as important as that of euthanasia? Why have they not supported such important measures as the latest decree to deal with and counter the economic crisis that is causing the war in Ukraine? Why are you against everything that is good for Spain? What's going on? What explanation do all Spaniards give to say that they vote for what is good for the country? They have few answers, except for the obligation we have to expose them. They've been lying to the entire population for too long. They did so when they ruled, they were expelled from the Government by an exemplary ruling of the National Court for systemic corruption in their organization, and today, even without regeneration, they come here to try to give democracy and good governance classes to a clean, transparent Government that prioritizes the population over anything else. [[Applauds]] I said earlier, you can attack all the policies that the Socialist Party has carried out, those that you want, but neither the governments of Felipe, José Luis, nor the current government have the stain of corruption that the People's Party has. With that leadership, not only in Spain, with the policies we are implementing - the first vice president herself has moved it and the president of the government has reminded it - we are at the forefront of GDP in the economic effort we are making to respond to the crisis that is causing the war in Ukraine. Today, Spain would be 3.5 points above the current inflation indicator if we had not implemented those measures, and neither did you support them. They also doubted the success of the initiative of the President of the Government to achieve the Iberian exception to the situation we are experiencing in the energy field. Today, which is a reality, they do not recognize that it has been a giant step to help the entire population of this country. It is alarming that even in measures such as the 5% reduction in VAT on light, you are aware that it is good for Spain, but we cannot expect you to vote for it. When we decided to cut it from 21 % to 10 % they also did not support it, nor did they support far-reaching measures that we have implemented. What happens here - I link it with what I said before, and that is why we are certain that they are not interested in renewing the judiciary at all - is that all the giant steps we take when governing social democracy in Spain You intend to reverse them with the control and kicks that give in the judicial sphere to the rights and freedoms of the Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]] If not, it would not be explained that in 2005 the law of equal marriage would be raised to the Constitutional Court; in 2007, the law of equality; in 2010, the law of abortion; and so continue with the law of education, the law of euthanasia, the law of the right to housing, which threaten to raise before the Constitutional Court, and so many other legislative initiatives that we raise in the House. It is curious that this is said by a party that has suffered from corruption, by the B box and by so many other bad practices that have led them to be in the opposition and that are going to take them to be there for a long time, have no doubt. The President of the Government said, we have experienced a regrettable episode in the United States with the Supreme Court ruling precisely against the right of voluntary termination of pregnancy. Do you intend to repeat situations similar to, or similar to, this here? It is a question that I ask you directly, and I appeal to the spokesman of the People's Party: do you really want this to be the picture of Spain, that of eliminating the rights that the citizens as a whole have democratically chosen in the ballot box, which you are trying to trap at the back door? Is that what the People's Party and the Right want in this country? It's a question I don't expect to answer, because we do know it: they always show it. I would like to remind you of some particularly relevant issues. If this government negotiates and enters into the field of social dialogue with trade unions and employers, bad; if we do not negotiate with trade unions and employers, bad; if we implement measures urgently in line with the main countries of the European Union, bad; if we take the initiative and carry out important innovative projects to protect the whole population, bad. What do you propose? Because in all their intervention in this state-of-the-nation debate they have not raised a single initiative beyond appealing to ETA and insulting the government. That's not a country project, it's not credible what you represent, and it's perfectly home with which you don't have a project yet changing your leadership. By the way, it would be good for you to better orient Mr. Núñez Feijóo's advisors, because all he does is screw up. [[Applauds]] It is able to confuse the risk premium with the types and is able to launch contradictory messages about job generation. Today no one is arguing that in Spain, below the three million unemployed, we have hit the record in terms of employment generation. Spain grows economically, says the main international organizations, but here negationism is absolute and total. Honestly, in these two and a half years of parliamentary life, I expected a door to optimism, a door of opportunity to build a country when Spain needed it most, but what we have found, beyond its internal catharsis, its internal squabbling and its organic instability, is the lack of commitment to the whole of the Spaniards, and that is alarming, because they are only concerned about demoscopia and not about the suffering of the whole population. [[Applauds]] That speaks very clearly to the fact that they are not aware of the situation in Spain and of the suffering of the whole population. They transferred to public opinion that we have the highest inflation rate in the euro area: false. There are eight countries with a higher inflation rate. They said it was the worst month of June of employment in a decade: false. We surpassed and beat the record in terms of job generation. They said they would change the machinery to destroy jobs that is Spain: otherwise, we are generating jobs. By the way, with a labour reform that they do not support; a labour reform that is dignifying the workers, ending the dynamics established by the People's Party; a reform that we direct towards ending and improving productivity. Even so, they came to say - and the President of the Government also transferred it yesterday - that Spain was not up to the occasion, that Spain was managing the European funds very badly and that Spain was not going to be able to manage that huge amount of resources. It is another dare, another dare from ignorance, not only for visiting a company that had direct access to these resources, but because, as president of the Xunta de Galicia, it received outstanding amounts of victims from European funds and the React EU, more than 800 million euros. It is barbaric that an autonomous president is not able to recognize the effort made by this Spanish government to provide all the autonomous communities with sufficient resources for economic recovery, of the COVID funds to deal with the pandemic and now, at such crucial times, for all Spaniards to have the necessary social protection. But here, ladies and gentlemen, I am moving a message of optimism and of the future, because we are not only going to continue to legislate, we are not only going to continue to push for measures, but this government is going to continue to think about the future of young people and those who are not so young, of the productive fabric, of our larger population; despite you, we will continue to do so. We will continue to do so as we have done, because this Government has a public service vocation, a vocation to articulate strategies, because Spain, as the President of the Government said yesterday, is a wonderful country, is a reference country, is a country that is going to remain a country of success, and all that despite a reactionary right, which is dressed as a gala every time it has the opportunity to weaken this government and the Socialist Party especially. I do convey a message of concern to the right of this country, to those who speak only of ruin and resignation, but who contribute absolutely nothing, because they come to this House and came to represent all the Spaniards - those who voted for them for this House - from the perspective of breaking up and ending the current system established, but without a single initiative beyond what they have done in Castile and León. By the way, I would like to remind the People's Party, because the European People's Party has clearly told them that these kinds of pacts of Castile and Leon are not being made, that they are not well. You have looked elsewhere, and there are the consequences: to deny public policies on gender-based violence, for example, or to try to weaken the State's project of self-government. That is something that will always affect you. We're gonna hurt him. [[Applauds]] Yesterday the spokesman of the People's Party was here in the Senate, the one who boasted and boasted of the pacts with Bildu, and today his only strategy is to attack the government because we take forward good legislative initiatives for Spain and agree with the parties that have democratically been elected by the citizens. [[Applauds]] They will have to give good account not only for failing to comply with the Constitution, not only for failing to comply with the whole population, but for establishing pacts that weaken our welfare State and our autonomy State. Ladies and gentlemen, we have many challenges ahead, many of us, but he has sent a message to the entire population of our country: we have a government and we have a political project. The only political project that Spain has is represented by the current Government of Spain, in the face of the ineptitude and the miserable and furious attack that today represents the right wing in Spain. Be aware of something: we will continue to build, we will continue to face the difficulties, which have not been few. Tomorrow we will again adopt initiatives to tackle inflation, which include specific measures for all sectors. I have even heard here today that this Government has not been sensitive to certain productive sectors - as the President of the Government himself commented - agriculture, livestock, fishing or the vulnerable population. However, minimum living income rises by 15% and non-contributory pensions rise by 15%; specific measures for the tourism sector before, during, now and after. There is no Government in the history of this country that has had so much difficulty and no Government that has done so much, both by the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Once and for all, be aware, recognize the efforts made by this Government, in parallel with what is good for Spain and stop attacking ministers and ministers for meeting their obligations in Spain and their international obligations. They are going to ridicule the members of the Executive and very little appreciate the legislative successes that are achieved in the field of equality, the struggle to defend LGBT people or in all areas that have to do with social rights. That's where they turn their backs. With their representation here today, in this Chamber, they also clearly demonstrate their desire for a debate on the state of the nation. [[Applauds]] The democratic spirit is perfectly defined in the representation on the bench of the right, the interest in attending to the opinion of each and every one of the spokespersons, of those who have less representation and of those who have more representation, in order to attend to all the sensibilities of this country, which are many. This doesn't just happen to come here and be present, drop the speech and run away, it's much more than that. [[a lady MP: All right!]] Dedicated to building and working for Spain, dedicated to working and building Spain. [[applause]] It is an honour to be a Member and a Member, yes, it is an honour to be present in this House, but that entails an inherent responsibility for work, effort and overcoming. It does not happen only and exclusively through control of the government on Wednesday and attack the minister of duty or the president of the government; to be a deputy is much more, is to work, build, raise proposals, attend and dialogue. Some formations, by the way, refuse even to dialogue with ministers and ministers because they understand that this is not the way, which must be confronted to the extreme. We invite you to enter into the path that democracy has marked us, which is that of understanding, that of defending the interests of each and every Spaniard. We will be stronger and we will be better at the moment when they understand and respect that the will of citizens must be respected, and this Government and this President of the Government legitimately won in those elections of 2019, not only the generals on two occasions, the autonomous, the local and the Europeans, something we will do again, have no doubt, because the Social Democracy will win the game to those who try to break the rules of the game and not respect the will of the Spanish and Spanish. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.- Prolonged applause of some members of the Government present in the Chamber, standing]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u113	If I may, Madam President, I will address your ladies and gentlemen from the seat, first of all, to thank you for the tone of the debate. I believe that this has been an important debate for our country, not only for the moment it was held, but also for the tone and contributions of your ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank you first. Secondly, with the debate on the state of the nation, we finally resume parliamentary normality. On some occasions you have heard me say that the parliamentary stability that our country needs to address many of the transformations and respond, first, to the pandemic and, now, to the economic and social consequences of this Putin war in Ukraine required General State Budgets approved in time and form and required parliamentary normality, which is what we are now celebrating again. It is true that during these two and a half years of parliamentary term we have held many debates of the state of the nation, but, listening to some of your ladies and gentlemen, I will be allowed to be reproached. It does not matter whether we talk about the pandemic or about the war, because we talk about this or other matter, they always have the same reproach to make to the Government of Spain. But beyond that, I am left with the positive part of this debate. First, parliamentary normalization. Secondly, the proposals they have made from the rostrum. I said this in my first speech: We, the Government, are going to be very much ahead of the resolutions presented by your ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary groups. Those resolutions that are realistic, that are feasible, that are ambitious and that are oriented in the line that we have marked throughout this debate of the State of the Nation count on the support of the Government of Spain. And you are going to allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express my gratitude to all the parliamentary groups that throughout this difficult parliamentary term have helped the Government to carry out measures that have been beneficial to all citizens, but above all to allow me, in my last speech in this state of the nation debate, to thank the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos and the confluences and, without a doubt, the group I have behind me, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the support they have provided during these two and a half years. I believe that you and you, if you allow me to tutor you in this last part of my speech, are the real protagonists of many of the social achievements that we have achieved for the benefit of the social majority. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause. - Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government present in the Chamber, stood up. - Applause of the President of the Government addressed to your parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over and, in accordance with Rule 197.1 of the Rules of Procedure, a period of 30 minutes is opened for parliamentary groups to be able to present motions for resolutions. Therefore, from 3.50 p.m. to 4.20 p.m. today, these proposals can be submitted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now appropriate to discuss the proposal for a law of the Socialist and Organic Parliamentary Group amending Article 570a of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u117	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u119	The European Commission's recommendation on this year's Rule of Law report has just come out, and it says exactly the following: To proceed to the renewal of the Council as a priority in order to start the renewal immediately, a process with a view to adapting the appointment of members, taking into account European standards. I repeat, to proceed with the renewal of the Council as a priority, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. That's why we're here today. It brings my group to debate in this House a proposal for an organic law to amend article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 on the Judiciary, which seeks in its single article to amend this article to read as follows: To propose the appointment of two judges of the Constitutional Court in the terms provided for in article 5991 first of the Organic Law. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the alarming constitutional neglect of the People's Party, let it attack the institutional foundations and balances that we have given ourselves among all, in the face of the paralysis caused by the boycott to renew the Council by those who have held the Government of the nation for years and years, it is a democratic obligation and an ethical conviction to put on the table all the parliamentary and democratic mechanisms to allow the institutional system not to be blocked. In the debate we had in this House in December 2020, we regulated the powers of the Council when it was in office. Since then, the parliamentary passivity of the PP has increased, no matter who directed it, whether Married or Feijóo. That is why we are bringing this proposal here today, in order to safeguard the common interests of the State and to unlock the appointments of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon, yesterday and today, we have attended, listened and will certainly listen to certain parties throwing these seven Biblical plagues at the Government and my group. It happened in 2020, in that debate that concerns them, and I assume we will hear similar words. After all, there are groups in this House that regard this illegitimate government and other groups that do not make ascos to bargain with them where they can. Therefore, our proposals, designed to comply with the Constitution and legitimize institutions on such an important issue as justice, are seen as an aggravation of their privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 122.3 of the Constitution states: The Council shall consist of the President of the Supreme Court, who shall preside over it, and of twenty members appointed by the king for a period of five years. If the previous council was renewed in 2013, that brings us to 2018. In historical periods, 2018 is a pre-pandemic. That same article continues by setting the parliamentary majority at three-fifths of its members, and here we are again trapped on the day of the marmot, more than 1300 days later. But what, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is the centre of the debate? What's the Gordian knot? Why are we here again? As I was telling you, we are here for your stubborn refusal and the constitutional impeachment of the People's Party and its leaders, before Married and now Feijóo. On this long road towards the four-year blockade of the Council a great deal has been said - I myself have done so - about who are the injured: the Council itself, justice, its prestige, the constitutional system. It is an injury, ladies and gentlemen, enormous and unheard of to the institutions. So much so that we have fallen from category to incomplete democracy. But, ladies and gentlemen, in view of what is happening in other places where the right also loses power and tries to keep it as it is, at least, maneuvering so that its theses on key issues are reinforced by a certain majority in judicial bodies - as is the case in the United States - the relevant question may be the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, not to whom it harms, but to whose prodest, who benefits from this blockade? Who benefits? As Seneca said in Medea: 'cui prodest selus, is made'. Yes, to the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the PP's undisguised desire to neglect its obligations when they are in opposition. We see how they delegitimize democracy when they don't rule, how they change depending on whether or not they're in the blue bank. Look, there is an aphorism that I never wanted to think of as good, but in the light of the facts I begin to certify. [[Rumors]] When the right wins, the progress achieved recedes in the Legislature; when the right loses, the progress recedes in the Judiciary. That is the reality you want to impose: to reverse progress from outside this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party defends institutions, democracy and the sense of state always, wherever it is, on the blue or no blue bench, always, in the government is in opposition. [[applause]] That is a considerable difference, and we have shown it. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you in the previous debate - since it is a recurring matter, I would not mind quoting myself to remind you of the words - this debate is crucial on what conception is there of the institutional architecture, what conception, whether it is good that the loss of power, the loss of parliamentary majority and the loss of government enables us to block renewals of constitutional bodies, ignoring the mandate of our maximum standard, or whether it is accepted that the transitions of power in a democratic State of law and social are accompanied by firm and perennial commitments of institutional normality. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are the transitions accepted or what are we in? because populism has many faces and this is one of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Feijóo, you are not qualified to govern those who do not respect themselves in the opposition. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal, I said at the outset that with this proposal we amended the Organic Law on the Judiciary so that, through this article 570 bis, the functions of an organ are limited when this body is in its final term of office. We believe that this paragraph is good for democracy. It is a matter of regulating interinity, that every body has limitations that have expired its mandate, as has the Government itself and as does the House itself. But in the pursuit of that end... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u120	Excuse me, Mr. Aranda, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u121	Thank you. As we said, we believe that it was a good goal to limit the functions of bodies whose mandate has expired, as the Government has them or as the House itself has them, but in the pursuit of that end we have sinned with kindness. We believe - because we always have a margin of confidence in the loyalty of the adversary to the State - that the governing Council regime would be the exception, but the irresponsibility of the second party in this House has made the exception a general rule. We are faced with a situation in the past, where the main offence is committed not by those who in good faith offer solutions over and over again, but by those who deliberately widen the problem. The People's Group also wants - it has asked the Bureau of the House - the Council to come out and report on this bill, as if it were a bill. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this mechanism is regulated in the Constitution, in the regulations, a constitutional nuclear party, which allows this group to make such proposals of law. And it is no less certain another reality, and it is that the People's Group itself proposed in this House - and it was rejected - in October 2020 a renewal of the Council and there was not the slightest request that these changes should be informed by the General Council of the Judiciary, nor the slightest. So I wonder: are the changes fundamental changes and do they need the report of the Council on European adequacy and requirements only when requested by the Socialist Group? Can these procedures be skipped if the changes are requested by the PP and VOX? Where's the coherence? Where is it, ladies of the PP? That is why, gentlemen of the PP, I ask you to stop making excuses and listen to the European Commission. Listen to your second request, where you say that it is urgent, that it be regulated, that it be modified, that the General Council of the Judiciary is already renewed with the current rules. Where is your consistency here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Don't make excuses. You're disheartening a constitutional warrant and hiding behind a thousand excuses. We don't want any more, we want them to act at once. I ended, Madam President, by asking the rest of the groups for their support for this bill to highlight the blockade that is being submitted to the Council to show the solitude of the PP in this matter. I call on the parties in this House to support a reform aimed at channelling our institutions and prestige, and I call on the PP formally to react, to regain its sense of state, to respond to reasons and to provoke this reform; to react and to cease in its refusal to accumulate with what is binding on us in the Constitution. Let us talk, let us agree; let us listen, let us listen to the European Commission and let us excuse ourselves. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Rojas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. With venial, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Lord]] Yes, Mr Aranda, spokesman for Justice of the Socialist Party, a few hours ago, Annual Report 2022 on the rule of law of the European Union: the European Commission urges Spain for the third consecutive year to unlock the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and to undertake a thorough reform to strengthen its independence and also that of the Prosecutor's Office. This is just the offer of agreement made to them by the President of the People's Party, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen. Brussels Reveals our proposal to depoliticize justice and the Office of the Attorney General; we reform, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the law to guarantee judicial independence as we renew the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] We remain willing, and the Government can show willingness to agree. It is true, Mr Aranda, that I must confess to you that I am very surprised that you have come up to the rostrum and have not even spoken about this offer this week, about this offer of a pact for justice, which is very relevant and which the Government and the Socialist Party should read, comment on and discuss with the People's Party. That's democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Justice, the fundamental power of the State, one of the pillars of our democracy, needs a pact and a sustained dialogue, does not need confrontation or disagreement. We have to hold our shoulders, ladies and gentlemen, to have an independent judiciary, to have an independent prosecutor's office. That's where we are, but I'm surprised. I am saddened that your honor has not even commented on a point that we have offered you by the People's Party and that you speak of this law that you bring here. This law is not what the European Union is asking for. What the European Union has just requested today is precisely that we reach an agreement, not a law that cuts the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary to be able to appoint judges, for example, of the Supreme Court, where there are fourteen vacancies and there is a situation that has been very dangerous, Your Honor. So you have to talk here about what society is demanding of us, what Europe is demanding of us, which is the proposal being made by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the foundations of justice cannot be decided in an express law, such as this, as the Socialist Party brings us today, that is, after it has been agreed with its partners in Esquerra and with the rest of its partners, on a single reading without agreement with the main opposition party. It is a mistake of the Socialist Party that you have to rectify, ladies and gentlemen. It is a sudden reform of another express reform intertwined in the debate of the state of the nation and an evil so-called Democratic Memory Law. This is, ladies and gentlemen, curlying the curl, if I may say so, is to remove the architecture of one of the pillars of the rule of law, such as justice, to bring political sectarianism to the core of our democracy, is a grave mistake. We very much regret the radical drift in which this socialism has been installed again, hardly recognizable by much of Spanish society. Let us not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a very important transfer of socialist votes towards the more moderate positions of the People's Party, as we have just seen. Do not be surprised, because our Constitution gave us a framework of stability that was the one that, in purity, the constituents wanted, which was the one that, in fact, voted the vast majority of Spanish citizens and it is the one that has been functioning in the last forty years. Now, at this worrying time - I have to say this, because it is the feeling of the vast majority of Spaniards - for an unstable and aimless Government, in the midst of an acute economic crisis, which the Executive is unable to face, we are being presented with a legal reform to renew the Constitutional Court, even with the General Council of the Judicial Power in office, thus revoking the express reform of Organic Law 4/2021, with which the Government removed the power of the Council to make discretionary appointments in the judicial dome, with very negative effects, as I said before, and with deep concern throughout the world of justice. Like Penelope, this Government weaves and wears down, to make democracy weaker, to sweep its institutions over and over again and, surely, to hurt the Government itself, which succumbs by swimming between its disbelief and its lack of principles. Because here, ladies and gentlemen, this law does not fix the express blockade that the Government itself imposed in that Organic Law 4/2021 a few months ago, in order to tie his hands and prevent the Council from appointing judges and magistrates while he was in office. Here and now, by the way of urgency, without report, without any consultation procedure, without parliamentary appearances that can shed light on this reform, we are being brought with us a proposal for a law that modifies an organic law regulating a power of the State, ladies and gentlemen, as is the judiciary, and here we are calling for a reform, certainly unconstitutional, on another reform that, obviously, is also coming out of the framework of our Constitution and that, as you know, has already been brought before the courts by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this, frankly - I insist - is a mistake of the Socialist Party, it is widening the gap, it is zaherir from the executive power to the judiciary, when both powers have to enjoy the utmost confidence among themselves, because it is what citizenship requires, to serve without distraction and to give a good public service of justice. The Government cannot make a letter reform for the Government itself and all this legislative machinery, ladies and gentlemen, with the aim of breaking the will of the Constitution. Because what is intended here is for the Government to be able to carry out the appointments of the Constitutional Court. How? Well, with an express law reform, through the back door. This is not what the constituents wanted, ladies and gentlemen; let us be clear, let us be clear. This is neither the spirit nor the letter of the Constitution. This Government was created with leave to break constitutional requirements, without any indecency. Here the government parties are created with a license to rig justice every time they think it's their political moment. They forget that the moment they have to attend is that of the citizens, who demand solutions in the face of an economic crisis of enormous proportions and uncertain future. Let us now give the citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, strong institutions, strong institutions in the face of the crisis. More Constitution and less partyism, Mr. Aranda. [[Applauds]] Honestly, this is what Spain needs. It does not really need Spain, ladies and gentlemen, an elephantic government, which seeks only to occupy spaces of power where it does not have them, because what the government believes to be power is an institution, and as an institution, ladies and gentlemen, justice must be respected, because it is the guarantee of our constitutional rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, this way of legislating - I insist and repeat - is a more than obvious mistake by the parties of the Government and Mr Sánchez, who is primarily responsible for this miscarriage, because the agreements on justice, as a pillar of the State that is, must have a vocation of permanence, of stability, of a calm spirit in order to reach the greatest possible consensus. That's our responsibility. Mr Gómez was talking here about how important it is to be a Member. This, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, is one of those important responsibilities. Let us be aware that we are judging the future of the country, because justice is a fundamental pillar of that future and of that public service to citizens who make us equal before the law, because we are equal before the law, and it is the last door to that democratic and constitutional guarantee that must be preserved, ladies and gentlemen. If we don't, who's gonna do it? If it is the government and if it is the Socialist Party who, through the back door, brings this law here to bring justice, obviously we cannot share that, and it is a serious mistake. I am convinced that if it does - I hope they do not - in the future the Socialist Party will regret it. Ladies and gentlemen, justice requires great agreements, and in our political formation we understand it loyally. Justice cannot be subjected to partisan vavenes. There are areas of the State, such as education or health, where there must be major agreements, and justice is one of them. That is what we are asking - I insist - from the People's Party, and I believe that by identifying with the vast majority of citizens, who tell us, who are asking us why we do not come to great agreements on state issues. For that is what the People's Party is offering, with our president, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, at the head, great agreements of state, because they are good for Spain, ladies and gentlemen. Correct, we're still in time. Justice emanates from the people, and, as our article 117 of the Constitution states, justice is administered on behalf of the king by judges and magistrates who are members of the judiciary, independent, immobile, accountable and subject only to the rule of law. In the People's Party we also reach out to the rest of the political formations, of course, not only to the Socialist Party, but to the whole of this Chamber, and we tend to reach a great agreement on justice, an agreement that strengthens the rule of law and the separation of powers in Spain, on the basis of ensuring the independence of the judiciary, its impartiality and also its appearance of impartiality, a great agreement that includes something as clear as that the Attorney General's Office must come to carry out its task without prior partisan criteria. This is what Europe is asking of us, Mr Aranda, and this is what has not happened to your Government. Why didn't it happen? He has made a serious mistake, but he has not passed with his Government, and it is clear, in the light of all the Spaniards. This is the proposal of the People's Party, a reasonable and necessary proposal, as just demanded by Europe this morning. Clearer, the water, ladies and gentlemen. If we believe in Europe, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we must believe with all the consequences in Europe and with all the requirements of European law, which mandates us to reach an agreement, but the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union clearly states that this type of legislation cannot be done this way and that this type of legislation needs a prior report from the General Council of the Judiciary. It is not that the People's Party says so, it is that it is the case law of the High Court of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That's right, ladies and gentlemen. As an alternative to government, we demand that the parties of the government finish this encirclement of justice and withdraw this law. We take the turn against it to offer this agreement. You also have against the vast majority of judicial associations. Why? Because to present this law here today is an anti-agreement, that is to say that you cannot reach agreements, that is to send a bad message to the citizenry, that is to send a bad message to this House. Therefore, I ask you to reconsider. Mr Aranda, now come up to this rostrum in your turn of reply, talk about the offer made to you by the People's Party and say what they disagree with. Let's try to change the points on which they disagree. Say something, offer some hope to the parliamentary debate, offer some hope to the Spaniards and take the extended hand of the People's Party, because it is a hand of State, because it is a hand of the future, because it is a hand of guarantee of public service and of independence from justice, Your Honor. Do it, do that test, I'm sure you'll succeed, Mr. Aranda. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rojas, I play with my daughter sometimes at the game of putting my hand and, when she's going to give it to me, I take it off. My daughter always beats me in this game. I think you also put your hand and then take it off, because you don't really want to shake hands. What you want is to attify the contrary, which is the goal of the game. And, look, don't worry so much about us, because that you quote the polls here means that you think that very well you haven't gone into this nation state debate; if you quote past and interpreted polls, you shouldn't be very happy about how you have gone through these two days of nation debate. I've heard him call me radical. Well, what do you want me to say? I want to tell you an obvious thing. When I was young there was a program, Sesame Barrio, where they taught very simple things: up, down, inside, out. For you to understand: the Constitution is either amended or fulfilled, it is not conditioned. [[Applauds]] For you to understand: either it is fulfilled or modified, and what it puts in is what it puts in. But all you do is make excuses and not comply with the Constitution. They give you a document with conditions. You guys should blush at us. It is that it has been 1300 days or more preventing the Council from being renewed. They accuse us of not wanting to negotiate with those who have been on excuses for 1300 days or more, taking their hand off every time we give it to them. Look, you talk about the chosen method, but I can tell you: Organic Law 1/2016, on Financial Stability; Organic Law 2/2016, on General Electoral Regime; Organic Law 4/2018, on the Judiciary; Organic Law 1/2019, on the Criminal Code, to transpose directives of the European Union on terrorism; and Organic Law 1/2014, on the Judiciary, on universal justice; Organic Law 15/2015, on the reform of the Constitutional Court. And others. In all of them you have ruled out during your term of office the legislative procedure provided for in the procedures for drawing up rules with the rank of law. As a result, reports and opinions which are mandatory in these cases were neither collected nor accompanied by the initiative, neither the Council of State of the Council nor the General Council of the Judiciary was heard. By the way, I don't remember any protests from the Council. It is true that he has been occupying a space that does not belong to him for three years after his term of office had expired. And they said, "Excuses, excuses, and more excuses." Here I appreciate a Twitter thread from Judges for Democracy, which I am going to sum up, so that your lordships and citizens know, if they don't keep the count, the times that have taken that mano away from the People's Party. December 2020: The PP will not renew the Council due to the proximity of the Catalan elections. At this stage, Salvador Illa will be President of the Generalitat before the Council is renewed. February 2021: the PP will not renew the Council if it intervenes Podemos. Thirdly, also 2021: the PP will not renew the Council if certain names are included. Four: the PP will not renew the Council until the proposed law is withdrawn to change the majority of these appointments - already withdrawn, by the way -. Five: the PP will not renew the Council if someone who is not well seen by them presides over the TC. Six: the PP will not renew the Council until the Madrid elections of May 2021. The 2023s will also be another excuse. Seventh: the PP will not renew the Council until the election system, endorsed by them in 2013, is changed. Eighth: the PP will not renew the Council if the pardons are produced. Ninth: the PP will not renew the Council unless its plan for the regeneration of justice is accepted. Regeneration? To us? You, who are in opposition, after hearing Villarejo's audios it is you who are to regenerate. [[Applauds]] Tenth: the PP will not renew the Council until the Andalusians have passed - they have already passed -. Eleven: the PP will not renew the Council until the Attorney General is dismissed. Twelve: the PP will not renew the Council if the amendment on the promotion of the public prosecutor's office is maintained at the end of its term of office - an amendment which has already been withdrawn -. Thirteenth and last, given its history: the PP will not negotiate the renewal of the Council if we do not withdraw this proposal and do not accept its conditions. Look, you're a minority, you lost the elections, and in this House there's a progressive majority, like in your day a conservative majority. [[Applauds]] So let me guess: I say if it is not that, perhaps, they do not want to renew the Council. Isn't that it? [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] It's just that we're 13 and at this rate, fourteen or fifteen. Do you not consider that the control of justice is your best way of eroding the government and that you only respect the Constitution when it suits you? What excuse are you thinking about now? What are the following? Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has - it has ended - shown its deep concern about the lack of renewal, creating a situation which, if it continues, would be unsustainable - is already unsustainable. So, gentlemen of the PP, Mr. Rojas, stop making excuses and do your constitutional duty to allow release. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u127	Thank you very much, President. With her coming. Mr. Aranda, well, if you want to call it surveys... look at Andalusia's latest survey. Ah, it wasn't a poll, it was an election! Okay. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That is the situation in which the Socialist Party is in. I'm sorry you persisted in the error. I regret that they were once again embroiled in the controversy and do not take that extended hand of the People's Party with that offer of making a great pact for justice. I'm really sorry. I believe that they have rejected an agreement which was good for Spain to strengthen justice within the constitutional order, to comply with the dictate of the European Union, which, as you know, has now been re-pronounced, to continue the path of the great pacts of state, Mr Aranda, which have worked in our country, which are above the political parties and which are as common in democracies as they are as healthy in any rule of law. You've gone to your place. They come here to grapple, again, to keep their pacts with Podemos, to fatten their agreements with Bildu, to culminate their rinsing in the matter of justice with ERC, which defends again to commit crimes, of which he does not regret. These are the ones who negotiate justice with the Socialist Party. Attention to this, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, he mentions the blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary and you do not say, Mr Aranda, that both the PSOE and the People's Party governments have passed the deadlines, but never until now have the appointments in office been blocked, and less have they then made amendments to the letter by the Government for their own interest. I remind you that your own Minister of Justice, Mr Campo, then a member of the General Council of the Judiciary, has been making appointments with the Council in office for almost two years. Up to thirty-two appointments and eleven Supreme Court judges appointed Mr. Campo when he was in office, no more or less. So, your Socialist Group ladies and gentlemen did not say anything, they saw no anomaly. It was a different time, yes. In these most recent, ladies and gentlemen, you are starting this legislature badly. What goes wrong ends badly, and this is what is happening with the government, and I am very sorry. The Coalition of the Government began - remember his lordships his andanzas? - calling the Spanish judges togaed reactionary. It will culminate in its trump against the judiciary with a law that certainly does not fit into the Constitution nor is it common sense for any good ruler. We have offered them many opportunities to withdraw this law. We have offered them a covenant they have rejected. They're still in time, Mr. Aranda, it's not too late. Return the powers to the Council by withdrawing the two laws. Make plans for justice and not for the Government. That is the case, Your Honor, because, if not, why does this law continue to bind the functioning capacity of the General Council of the Judiciary? This is exactly what happens. It is shameful that the Government is legislating to the letter for its own interests. There are no other functions under this Act, such as the appointment of a judge of the Supreme Court, presiding over hearings, that of the High Courts of Justice or the National Court. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unheard of in this way to legislate to release only the Constitutional Court, which has just taken office, and not the Supreme Court, which has not appointed new judges for years and which, look!, is issuing a thousand fewer sentences a year. There lies much of the problem, that of functioning, that you have generated with this law and with the previous one. Stop this reform. It has just been urged by the governing body of the judges itself, not only Europe today, but on Monday, the governing body of the judges in the Council asked them to stop this reform, ladies and gentlemen. You don't listen. What kind of government is capable of producing a fast-track reform without even listening to those who are affected by this regulatory reform? The General Council of the Judiciary has again called for their attention, asking them to inform Congress on the part of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, something very reasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, the judges cite European law, to which we are bound, and say that - I quote textually - 'the case law of the Court of Justice - as I said before - of the European Union requires that, when the proposal for a law concerns the nuclear aspects of the status of members of the judiciary or which affect the status or functions of members of the governing body of the judiciary, it must be heard by all the sectors involved, including the General Council of the judiciary itself'. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that this is really serious. This is crucial, that is, what I have just read is European law, it is the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, to which Spain is bound. This is so and, therefore, you skip it. Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening to the President of the Government yesterday, Mr President, saying that I am European from the head to the head. That's what Mr. Sanchez said yesterday, and today Mr. Sanchez has this law. This is Mr. Sanchez, ladies and gentlemen. It is a shame for the Socialist Party to follow that path of sanchism and to deny itself great agreements in justice such as the one we offer you. I insist and reiterate, Mr Aranda and ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that they are still in time. Thank you so much. [[Applauds.-A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u128	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking to reject the consideration of this proposal for a law with which the Socialist Group intends to seek and accommodate one of the key elements of democracy to its convenience. We are in favour of making amendments to the Organic Law of the Judiciary, but strengthening the independence of those who have to administer justice and ensuring the separation of powers, rather than this assault which goes in the opposite direction to the jurisprudence of the European Union. If this bill comes forward, of which I have no doubt, despite the devastating arguments made by Mr Rojas, which I fully share, it would mean an involution that would undermine confidence in judicial independence, since it is moving towards changes to the letter and to the liking of the Government and its parliamentary partners, reaching nothing more and nothing less than the composition of the Constitutional Court, the sacrosanct institution of the national framework. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about justice we could have expected the government to make an effort to reach consensus on the basis of major agreements with the opposition groups, but that was not the case, once again. It is clear throughout this XIV Legislature that the priority for the Socialist Group is to fill the ambitions of its support in this House, even if this is to the grave detriment of the general interests of the Spaniards and, in particular, to the detriment of justice, which is fundamental and is a teacher in a democratic system of quality. Reform should progress towards modernization, but it continues to lag behind in the inability of the Government to promote and reach major agreements. In short, with this proposal of law, Mr Aranda Vargas and lords of the majority, you prefer the shortcuts, the fastest route to the precipice, even more so when you hit it over and out of bravery. They have already told you: re-think, rectify and withdraw this consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u130	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that I believe that this amendment to the law has two problems. One is from the point of view of the image that moves. Once again, it gives the impression that what is intended is to control and manage the administration of justice, with the problems that this has, of course, in a democracy. The other is the chapuza that means, now that it is interested to make two appointments to the Constitutional Court - the Government wants to make two appointments to the Constitutional Court - to amend the very law that the Socialist Party amended very recently with the aim of drowning the General Council of the Judiciary and that it could not exercise its functions of appointing the rest of the judges. What moves is the idea that it is important for the Socialist Party that the Constitutional Court should function normally and that the necessary changes should be made to the two members who are to appoint the Government itself and the two members who are to appoint the General Council of the Judiciary, but who are of little importance to the general public, which is their relationship with justice on a day-to-day basis. It seems to him very well that all these appointments remain paralysed; it is not concerned that the General Council of the Judiciary is paralysed. He was upset that the Constitutional Court would not be amended, but the number of judges who were the most affected by people on a day-to-day basis gave him the same idea that they were still there, that they were retiring, that no new judges could be appointed and that the administration of justice was partially paralysed. This, of course, is a rather large piece of law and let us hope that it does not come forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u132	Thank you. Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u133	Thank you, President. Law, from our perspective, should be the tool for defending the weak. Judges, lawyers and courts should address conflicts by protecting people from the abuses of the powerful, but this is not what happens in the Kingdom of Spain. The head of state, also the head of the judiciary, is a king whose father was appointed by Franco and the judges of the high judiciary are dedicated to defending the forts. Only in the last few months: the Constitutional Court suspends the Catalan law on the regulation of rents; we are still waiting for the Attorney General's Office to say something about Pegasus; the National Court repeatedly refuses to investigate the tortures of Francoism, with sentences that all the time refer to the Amnesty Act of 1978; the Supreme Court of Justice of the Valencian Community graves the law on the protection of the coast, and the Environmental Prosecutor's Office of Palma charges a councillor to go against polluting discharges into the sea. Ladies and gentlemen, the judges of the Spanish judiciary are at war to defend the forts. You'll have to do a little more than change magistrates.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u134	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u135	Thank you very much, President. To take care of democracy is to take care of the institutions, and the General Council of the Judiciary is one of them, this House is another and the political parties and their obligations are also. If the image of these is degraded by the sectarian behavior of some of them, the very image of the institutions is also degraded. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely what is happening with the unjustifiable blockade that the People's Party has been carrying out with the renewal of the General Council, instrumentalizing for its own benefit a guaranteed process of reinforced majority voting, generating a constitutional anomaly, an inadequate situation for the proper functioning of the institutions and a deterioration in the quality of our democracy, which from a full democracy has become a defective democracy, being the only European country with Chile that falls from the highest ranking, according to the classification of The Economist that analyses democracies worldwide on the basis of sixty indicators. This is precisely the case, ladies and gentlemen, for the lack of renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is on its way, incredible as it may seem, from its fourth year of interimity. Lack of renewal that occurs - as already advanced - by the denaturing of the system of reinforced guarantees demanded for its renewal, which pursues the recreation of consensus and seeks to stimulate tendencies towards unanimity, not instrumentalization as is happening from the process of designation to block the renewal of the council after the expiration of its mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about instrumentalization because since the 1985 reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which made the twelve members of the Judicial Council fully appointed by the Courts, the People's Party has been talking about a politicization of the Council to justify its parliamentary blocs to the election of members of the Council when it is only in the opposition, although then, when it has the parliamentary majority, it has never proceeded to re-establish the system of corporate election prior to 1985. However, we must remember - as the Constitutional Court has done in its Judgment 108/1986 - that neither according to the will of the constituent nor in accordance with the Constitution nor in accordance with the purpose of the Constitution can it be said that the election of the members of the judiciary, directly and without mediation, is a constitutional requirement. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also remind you, as I have already pointed out on other occasions, that in the different judicial models of our environment, political power is well involved in judicial appointments, or in the bodies that appoint and govern the judiciary. The first example is the American model, based on the principles of the English Constitution, and the European continental and Nordic model. They are models in which the Legislature and the Executive intervene prominently, that is limited by the laws and controlled in their execution by the Judiciary, without any of this imply partisan sectarian criteria in the modes of choice. And I say partisan sectarian criteria in the worst sense of the word. The second example is the countries with judicial councils, in which the Legislature and/or the Executive are absent in the selection process for judges and magistrates, although they are involved in the election of these judicial councils, which in turn elect judges and magistrates. That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that talking about a politicized model in a pejorative sense of the current model of election of the members of judicial origin of the general council, as the People's Party does, does not cease to be a screen to cover up the instrumentalization of its blocking activity because the only politicization - and now in the worst sense of the word - is itss, blocking the renewal of the council and the Constitutional Court until, it seems, it recovers the parliamentary majority, thus maintaining majorities in a governing body and in the Constitutional Court that represent in the world of law and in the current judicial practice of conservatives existing in society, preventing, to the contrary, the renewal of other legal sensibilities also present in society, somewhat not far from what we see in the American Supreme Court. I'll finish it, President. In times of crisis such as the present, it is essential to rebuild bridges, not to continue to be destroyed. This is required by the obligation to regenerate the bond of citizenship with the institutions, not blocking them in a partisan and sectarian way, without this implying that there can be no changes or reforms in the current model of choice and even other models from different constitutionally valid options. However, this cannot justify the obstructive work being done, demanding to change the rules in the middle of the party or maintaining the institutional blockade. Ladies and gentlemen, the instrumentalisation of a guarantee process cannot reverse it to the benefit of the person who carries it out or to the detriment of the proper functioning of the institution. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of the initiative and that it is dealt with urgently and with a single reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u136	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u137	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, Mr Aranda, the Socialist Group brings us one of those cheating propositions of law that you like so much, trapping everyone else and undermining our rights as an opposition. We are put in this proposal together with a debate on the state of the nation and in the last plenary that we have at this session, speeding up and running. And they cheat on us, yes, in the first place because it appears as a proposition of law. We find that then we do not have the report of the General Council of the Judiciary itself or of the Council of State, until we reach the incredible point that the General Council of the Judiciary met on Monday and complained that the Government does not ask for an opinion on the regulation of its own powers. So that you will then talk about the implementation of the Constitution and the institutional balance. Well, look, of course the General Council of the Judiciary is very upset. You said to Mr. Rojas: But, well, if you did that too with your proposals for law. The truth is that the appeal to Barrio Sesamo has been very timely because it seems that you are five years old. Let's see who has done it worse over these forty years of democracy. And, - then we'll say it from the seat in three minutes -, on top with single reading processing. Hurry up and run. There's a tremendous urgency. What's the emergency? The urgency It is the urgency of the Socialist Party together with the United We can, together with the Republican Left of Catalonia and together with Bildu to control the Constitutional Court. Of course, there is an absolutely terrible urgency. As far as the substance is concerned, here I have heard nothing of what this bill has to do with it. It is a matter of conferring or regaining the powers of the council to appoint two judges of the Constitutional Court. If we are not talking about renewal, we are not talking about renewal. Do you remember, when you expropriated the powers over appointments to the General Council of the Judiciary, what you said from this rostrum? That the interim council must be subject to the rules of the interim government. With one of you I have come to speak these days and I have said to you: What happens, that now we no longer have to apply this? You then said: No man, of course, is that as far as appointments are concerned, just as the Government in office cannot appoint, the Council in office cannot appoint. That's right, from now on you can name what's right for you. It's just they don't even get colored. It's spectacular. When I talk to you, they say to me, "Man, this is politics. Of course, you understand politics as that profession that is exercised by men and women without words, and we do not understand it that way. [[Applauds]] As for the reform you are proposing, look, I will read it literally: The General Council of the Judiciary may, while in office, exercise its right to make appointments, as long as Pedro Sánchez likes them. [[Laughter]] This is what they're going to write in the Organic Law of Judicial Power. You say you're going to return the competition to the General Council of the Judiciary. They're going to remind the judiciary that they've got him, they're going to remind the judiciary that he's their hostage, they're going to remind the judiciary that you're the kidnappers of the judiciary. They are so concerned about the Constitutional Court, but they are brought into line with the agonistic situation that the Supreme Court's Dispute-Administrative Chamber and the Social Chamber - progressive gentlemen, the Social Chamber - of the Supreme Court is experiencing. [[Applauds]] Yeah, they don't care. It is necessary to have a progressive Constitutional Court because the president, Pedro GonzálezTrevijano, the vice president, retires and gives up the term of office to two others. In this way, with this troupe, we have succeeded in making seven of the twelve members of the Constitutional Court progressive. That's good! In this way, his members of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will be able to pick up the phone and say: Hey, Constitutional Court, don't get involved with the referendum of self-determination so tense, don't perceive me of disobedience. Is that what you really want? To overthrow, destroy the image of legitimacy that the Constitutional Court has, that which has the General Council of the Judiciary and that which has this Congress of Deputies, who they make an accomplice or necessary co-operator of this invasion of the Judiciary and of the neutrality of the institutions? This is what they do. And you, gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr. Rojas, are not going to escape me either. You will understand that a few months ago four judges of the Constitutional Court were divided with these gentlemen. [[Applauds]] A gentleman, Enrique Arnaldo, caught a conversation saying, "Let's see if we can name a good prosecutor." A good prosecutor for the PP. To a lady, Concha Espejel, who was challenged for not having impartiality in the Gürtel case. The Gürtel case will ring a bell, won't it? To a gentleman, Ramón Sáez Valcárcel, in the United Left, whose judicial decisions are applauded by Puigdemont's lawyer. This is what you do, what you have been doing for forty years: to divide the institutions of the State. Yes, this is an absolutely terrible cacicada. You take the report of the College of Commissioners on the rule of law in Spain and read what is right for you. What he does not read is that the report says that the system of election of the General Council of the Judiciary needs to be changed in order to adapt it to European standards and that judges should be elected by their peers, by judges. That report - see what it says - says that in Spain the relations between the Executive and the Attorney General's Office, Dolores Delgado, must be untied. That's what you keep quiet about. [[Applauds]] As Inés Arrimadas said this morning, what happens here is that the most powerful man in this country is named Pedro Sánchez. And his name is Pedro Sánchez because he understands that when he was voted for, when he obtained the investiture, he is the president of the Government, he is the president of the Supreme Court, he is the president of the Court of Auditors, he is the defender of the people, he is the one who colonizes the assault on all the constitutional institutions of our country, without forgetting the State's Law, the Center for Sociological Research, the National Institute of Statistics, the National Center of Intelligence and even Indra. You think you're the state. And you, gentlemen of the People's Party, no longer know how to say that you want your friends in the General Council of the Judiciary. They are as always, the People's Party always, or worse than ever, because perhaps now regeneration and neutrality we have to say in Galician for Mr Núñez Feijóo to understand. Mr Núñez Feijóo still does not answer me to the question whether Galicia and Spain are two entities that negotiate on an equal footing, as Mr Sánchez acknowledged to Euskadi or Mr Aragonès also claims for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u138	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u139	I'm done, President. I mean, the usual, gentlemen. Do not disguise yourselves, gentlemen of the People's Party, and you have little shame...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u140	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u141	...to maintain this bill without blushing. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u142	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u143	Thank you very much, President. The PP looks like the hortelano dog, neither renews nor lets renew. Above all, he comes here and has the defachability and hypocrisy of talking about judicial independence, just when he has all his friends placed in the different organs. There's gotta be... there's gotta be... In short, the country and its organs cannot wait for the PP to be able to renew, that is, that it can impose with its majority on its candidate.We sincerely do not like this way of proceeding, with these haste, I think it is a bit cumbersome, but we do not like the spoils of the People's Party: to prevent any renewal that does not comply with its impositions and to keep organs expired for years waiting for more favorable times to come for its pretensions. We have already seen in the United States how expensive that is for women, for example. Finally, I will make two reflections. It is the General Council of the Judiciary that has expired, not this Parliament, therefore, that any agreement taken by this Parliament is legitimate. And I'm finishing up. It seems that the only pacts that can be made here are between the PSOE and the PP and all other pacts are illegitimate. Well, no. Behind each of these Members who sit in this House are thousands of legitimate and honourable people who have the same right to make pacts with those who want to. Mr. Maroto did it with EH Bildu, we can do it with anyone in this House. They're as legitimate as each other. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u145	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than three years since the People's Party, in collusion with the judiciary, is preventing the renewal of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. A scandal that the GRECO Group of the Council of Europe has repeatedly denounced. The two - PP and judicial dome - are responsible for this democratic deterioration and there is no indication that this situation will change as they have closed ranks in this coup against democracy. It was precisely in order to deal with this situation that the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary was approved just a few months ago, which prevented an expired council from continuing to place related judges in the major courts. The spokesman for the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda, justified this by appealing to the Constitution and the Venice Commission. The spokesman for the United Nations We can, Mr Asens, said that justice should be rescued from the hands of the PP and that the council should cease to be an impregnable bunker that continues to corrupt, colonize and control the key positions of the judiciary of the Supreme Court and even of the Constitutional Court. Although the cake in the appointments has no limits - here we see these fellow Members of Aranda and Asens who, with their groups, voted for Mrs Espejel and Mr Arnaldo as members of the Constitutional Court - I must say that I fully agree with what they said at the time. It is an unsustainable situation and has yielded enormous benefits to the People's Party. As Cosidó said, they control the Second Room of the Supreme through the back door. Hundreds of key posts have been filled in this interim situation by the General Council of the Judiciary, an effective mattress to leave free in most cases of corruption to the People's Party. And not only in economic corruption, justice has taken a look at everything about the Kitchen case and Operation Catalonia, among many other issues. I want to make it clear that I do not doubt the professionalism of the vast majority of judges and their independent and impartial performance. The problem - we know it well - is the politicization of its governing body and its dome, a costra of Francoism that continues to be occupied by the right and the right, just as it was in the middle of the Franco regime. The 2021 reform, although insufficient, was approved to deal with a state of affairs, to prevent a council immune to the change of democratic majorities from continuing with sectarian appointments, without any incentive to change, and to prevent what the European Commission has again denounced today: that the practical actions of judicial bodies are affected by this octopus. And now, for no reasonable reason whatsoever, that 2021 reform is reversed and the exception of silence is forced. They claim that the Council in office will continue to be unable to appoint judges of the Supreme Court, the National High Court or the higher courts of the Autonomous Communities, but that it will be able to appoint the two Constitutional magistrates who are constitutionally responsible for it. I wonder, who can't at least do the most? What happens, because he is not able to appoint the posts of an autonomous court and, on the other hand, can he appoint them from the Constitutional Court? We all know what this reform is for. It is because the Government has bowed to the blackmail of the late Presidents of the Constitutional Court, Mr González-Trevijano, and of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Lesmes, who have threatened to block the appointments of the Government to the Constitutional Court with the usual arguments and legalisms. This law is a totally unnecessary surrender. Appointments may be made by the Government. Make them and get out of the way. It is not true that the third-party renewal set out in the Constitution prevents this. There are precedents and jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court itself. It is absurd for the Government and the Council to agree to appoint four judges at the same time. We are fed up with this partial, politicized and autonomous judiciary that is believed to be above the law. This law that is now being adopted is the demonstration that neither you nor any more progressive government in history that may come in the future will plant before this government of judges that is at war with democracy. They won't find us there. Thank you very much. [[Applause.-Rumores.-A Member of the European Parliament: 65 seconds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I have repeatedly explained to the leadership of your group that there is no means. Mr Pagès i Massó had four and a half minutes; therefore, only seven seconds have passed. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u147	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group will support the consideration of the proposed organic law to amend Article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985, of the Judiciary, so that the General Council of the Judiciary - which is now, as we know, in office because the mandate is expired and therefore does not have the powers that it should have, has them restricted - can execute the appointment of two judges of the Constitutional Court, under Article 599.1 of this Organic Law. We will also support the agreement for the direct and single reading of this bill because we cannot continue to wait until the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary that the People's Party has been abducting for more than three years. On the basis of a question of constitutional imperative, these judges must be appointed without any delay. It is a matter of democratic quality. We have this debate here today and Mr Rojas said that what they would have to do is reach an agreement. How long have we been waiting for them to come to an agreement? Three and a half years. I mean, today that we come up with the debate on the amendment of the law is when you think about saying that we are going to reach an agreement. Don't say it anymore and do it, Mr. Rojas. I know it is a bit brown for you that your party has told you to come here to defend this issue when it is you - the People's Party - who are abducting the General Council of the Judiciary and our democracy every day for three and a half years, for 1300 days. And, yes, on the understanding that this reform is necessary, our group understands that what needs to be done - and I also say this to the Socialist Party - is a reform as soon as possible of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that reflects the new majorities of this Parliament. There are no more absolute majorities, there is no longer bipartisanism as we have always understood, so we must adapt as soon as possible to the political and multipartisan plurality that we currently enjoy in Parliament. We must finally free our constitutional bodies from the continued kidnapping of the People's Party. Mr Rojas also said something that surprised me very much. He said: More Constitution. More Constitution? For, Mr Rojas and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, fulfill it, you abide by the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Yes, gentlemen, more Constitution. Comply with the Constitution. Although the constitutional mandate for renewal had never been breached for such a long time as it is now, I will recall that it was also Mariano Rajoy's PP who resisted the renewal of the General Council of Judicial Power after Mr Zapatero's victory in 2004. That blockade lasted one year and ten months. It's his way of doing politics. This is not a coincidence, nor is it delaying by chance. It is their way of doing politics, of understanding the state and of believing that they have to defend what belongs to them. That's his way of working. It is believed that all the powers of the State are at your disposal and that they are your courtship. The blockade is intended to keep at all costs a majority of judges appointed by the People's Party in the upper areas of the judiciary, since the General Council of the Judiciary decides all important appointments of the judicial career, and that is what they claim. This is a frontal attack on the rule of law and democracy. We are talking about a democratic fraud, and it is clear that this is a democratic fraud, because with the blockade on the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary we are seeing how what you did during these years is not representative of the popular will. The People's Party intends to illegally extend its mandate. The blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary, and now of the Constitutional Court, is part of that evident strategy of the People's Party that is using the courts to undermine the action of the Government, to facilitate lawfare strategies against political opponents and to avoid their cases of corruption. As a result, what they are achieving is an image of justice as a public service that is increasingly deteriorating and that citizens are continually wary of the independence of the judges and the courts they are responsible for delivering. And Mr. Feijóo, Feijóo and the Moderate, said he was willing to negotiate the release of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Makes the mark of quotes with your fingers]] However, for three months now it has been taking a long time and continues to make excuses for its renewal, then this is one more reason to be able to approve it. Moreover, the blockade cannot be a blockade of the Constitutional Court because we are violating the Constitution and the democratic will expressed in the last elections. Just as the extension of the term of office of Congress or the Senate would be absolutely unacceptable, so would that of these bodies and the renewal of their members. There are clear interests on the part of the People's Party. They have to do with the judgment you expect of the abortion law and that you have brought the euthanasia law to the Constitutional Court. I mean, we get an idea of why you guys are abducting democracy. They are constantly calling themselves constitutionalists while using techniques that are undemocratic and are laughing at the Constitution - you, the constitutionalists - and the will of the people of this country. It's been years since the PP lost most in the polls, put that in your head; however, they want to continue to control the judiciary. And I'm done. As Ignacio Escolar said, justice emanates from the people - the Constitution says - unless the people vote on the left. That is what you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u148	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u149	To conclude, I'm going to ask a question to everyone who's here and everyone who's out. Can you imagine that it was the progressive left of this country that was abducting the judiciary for 1300 days, that failed to fulfil a constitutional mandate? We'd be opening and closing the news.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u150	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u151	Would he be talking about anything else in this country? There would be nothing else to talk about in this country today. [[Applauds]] Do you know why you're not talking now? Because the PP is doing it, not this government. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u152	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. This proposal for an organic law brought to us by the Socialist Group is a clear threat to the independence of justice, the rule of law and legality. That is why I would like my first words to pay tribute to a man, Pedro Alfonso Casado, lieutenant colonel of the Civil Guard of the Special Intervention Unit, who died on 5 July in an act of service precisely defending legality, the rule of law and justice. [[Applauds]] Honor and glory to the Civil Guard and its heroes. Now let's go to what I don't know if I qualify as a sanatorium, a voodoo or a pantomime between the Socialist Party and the People's Party; so much riding, riding so much, they're always the same doing the same. If we go back to March last year, we realize that the Socialist Group with its partner Podemos presented a proposal for an organic law to approve article 570 bis of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. In his explanatory statement he told us - I read literally -: From the above, the need to limit the decisions taken by a outgoing General Council of the Judiciary - i.e. in office - to exclude from its powers the possibility of electing, inter alia, the judges of the Constitutional Court. This is a year and a few months ago. Well, now, in July 2022, the Socialist Group - we have fallen from the proposal - presents us with the reform of the reform. Now that article 570 bis is no longer valid for them, it no longer serves them, and they seek for the single direct reading procedure - and, therefore, trying as far as possible to ignore this very serious attack on justice and the independence of the judiciary - that we adopt a proposal in which it now says otherwise. To avoid this situation - which they created in the March reform last year - which can cause difficulties in the renewal of constitutional bodies, it is proposed to reform this article, so that the General Council of the Judiciary can now appoint at least the two judges of the Constitutional Court - which is what they claim - corresponding by election of the General Council of the Judiciary. This has been reported by the courts. I will refer to the complaint made to the Group of States against the Corruption of the Council of Europe, GRECO, by the Civic Platform for Judicial Independence. They have clearly stated that it is solely in the interest of the Government to control the Constitutional Court. They have said in their complaint that it is a formal violation, because it avoids any process of hearing when presenting it as a proposal for an organic law and not as a draft law. Moreover, it falls into the background of an issue that clearly violates article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, because it violates or violates the principles of guarantee, independence and impartiality of judicial bodies. We could continue to make all kinds of legal assessments, but I believe that the Spaniards need to speak to them in clear, high and precise Spanish in this seat of national sovereignty; to put aside the entire media circus and the 'politicians' language to which the Socialist Party and the People's Party so accustomed, and to tell them and explain - at least for that reason VOX has come - what is behind many of these parliamentary initiatives. I would like to underline the special gravity of this, and I will do so in a graphic way with this drawing, in which all Spaniards will be able to see the Congress of Deputies and all its lords above reforming the Organic Law of the Judiciary. [[shows a graph]] Well, what do you want with it? To appoint toe - yes, toe - magistrates who are like them. And place them where? At the General Council of the Judiciary and hence directly at the Constitutional Court. For what? To continue to control the Constitutional Court politically. And what do you want with that? They claim that there will be no further rulings declaring the unconstitutionality of two states of alarm or, for example, the unconstitutionality of including Pablo Iglesias in the CNI's supervisory commission; or that the remedy for the kidnapping of this same House will be allowed; or that resources such as those that our group has submitted against labour reform or against euthanasia, so many resources that the Socialist Party fears may go wrong in a constitutional court that has not properly tied up. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] That is the reality, that is the sad reality before which we find ourselves: a Socialist Party and a People's Party that do not claim in any way, even if they are filled with mouths saying otherwise, that there is an independent justice. We will speak tomorrow about VOX's proposal that the General Council of the Judiciary be truly an independent body; that the twelve judges under the Judiciary be elected by and from judges and magistrates; that politicians, through Congress and the Senate, not be able to continue to put to their finger in the Supreme Court, in the provincial hearings, in the National High Court and in the Constitutional Court; that they denounce before all of you and the Spanish the constant maneuvers they have made because they do not believe in the division of powers, because they do not believe in the rule of law and because they believe much less in judges and magistrates who act exclusively to the dictate of the law and to the service of legality, the rule of law and the Constitution. [[applause]] The Socialist Party and the People's Party, or the People's Party and the Socialist Party, want puppets that they can handle, but that, sooner than later, with VOX in government is going to end. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u155	We proceed to the agreement on direct and single reading of the Proposal for an Organic Law amending Article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. He announced that after this item we will proceed to the vote on both this item and the previous item. In order to establish a position on the direct and read-only agreement on this initiative, and for a period of three minutes from the seat - I think it has remained on that - I have the floor, first of all, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Français.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u156	Thank you, President. We could say, with regard to the application of this processing, that famous phrase of 'Montesquieu has died'. [[Rumors]] Montesquieu has died and the ordinary legislative procedure seems to have also died. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u157	Wait a minute, Mr. Bal. [[Pause]] Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u158	At least it is left relevant, it is left for what is not part of the Government's political agenda. These traps are then used, which I have shown earlier in my speech: legislation is drawn up through royal decrees laws that constitute blackmail, and proposals for legislation are used to prevent the expression of their opinion by the affected bodies themselves, as is, in this case, the General Council of the Judiciary. Finally, through this single reading procedure, in the end what is done is to curtail the rights of the opposition, to curtail the rights of Members. There is no work in the Commission, there is no possibility of reaching consensus, there is no possibility of summoning representatives, there is a very short deadline for tabling amendments and everything is decided in three minutes from the seat, when Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure of Congress says that the application of this procedure would have to be done through the rules of the whole debate; that is, we would have the right to go up to the rostrum and speak for at least twelve minutes. The Rules state: This procedure shall be applied where the nature of the draft or proposal of law taken into consideration advises it or its simplicity of formulation permits it. That's what the law says. Does the nature of the proposal advise the application of this procedure? Of course he advises you. He advises this because Pedro Sánchez is interested in controlling the Constitutional Court. This is the nature of the proposition we are seeing. Is that a simple proposition? Yes, I have just read it before, it is very simple: the General Council of the Judiciary will be able to appoint those candidates to the Constitutional Court who like Pedro Sánchez. Simpler is impossible. I have read what the scientific doctrine on this procedure has written. The scientific doctrine of constitutional law professors is that this procedure is applied in cases where there is already a prior consensus on the rule that there is no need to negotiate in the Commission and, therefore, the single reading procedure is applied. We are applying it, for example, in the recent reform of the regulation on telematic voting. This is what the Constitutional Court's Judgment 27/2000 says; I say this for those who want to appeal this law if they have enough deputies. This is a real catch. This is something that is frankly illegitimate, deeply anti-legal and absolutely anti-democratic, which eliminates the rights of the opposition. I believe that the Bureau and the Presidency should be in order to guarantee the rights of Members to oppose, not to systematically submit to the demands of the Executive. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor. [[Pause]] Mr. Boadella is not among us. We moved on to the VOX Parliamentary Group. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously, we reject the proposal and reject the form of its processing; a direct and urgent procedure which, in essence, violates the possibility of a hearing procedure that should have passed if it had been presented not as a proposal, but as a draft law. Hearing, among others, in the associations of judges and prosecutors, in the so-called European Commission for Democracy by Law or Commission of Venice and in the General Council of the Judiciary itself. Therefore, this urgency could be described as a very clear premeditation and lightening; they lack the night, although they will soon also achieve it. Basically, all you want is for this shame to pass quickly to democracy, this shame to the state and this shame to judicial independence. But the Spaniards will soon know that there are other ways of doing things, respecting the powers of the State, respecting the division of powers and respecting the judges and magistrates in the legitimate exercise of their power. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u161	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u162	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let no one be called a fraud. It is true that we are in the midst of a debate so that this plenary value if it is justified that this initiative is conducted through the single reading procedure in an express and undisputed manner. They will measure that this initiative meets one of the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the House, which is simplicity in its formulation, and that this procedure has been used on previous occasions; indeed, in most cases there was a high degree of consensus among the groups. But Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure does not just say that. Article 150 also states that in order for an initiative to be dealt with through the single reading procedure, it is necessary that its nature so advises. The content of its proposed law not only does not advise it, but should force greater reflection and discussion as it is a new intrusion into the powers of the governing body of the judiciary, something that has no parallel in our democracy. That is why we are not just dealing with a new procedural debate. We have heard that in the previous debate. You use this Parliament to put and remove the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary according to its political convenience. If not, could you explain to me the argument that allows you to argue that a few months ago the Council in office could not make any appointments, and now it does? What is the principle that the Council in office is now competent to make certain appointments and that it is not for others? Your interest or political strategy. It is clear that this is the case. Well, if that is the reason for being, if that is the true nature of this initiative, to go to this express procedure of one reading becomes a regulatory fraud, because all they seek is to avoid a calm debate, all they seek is to avoid the report of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, which is the body concerned and which has required them to do so, and also to avoid the report of the Venice Commission, as the European Union has been demanding; reports which we not only consider necessary, but which we consider essential. Socialist ladies and gentlemen, you are immersed in a flight forward in which everything depends on the maintenance of power. [[The lady]] Today they want to take another step in trying to impose in a process of only twenty-four hours an initiative that affects the judiciary without even listening to it and without consensus. That is their way of governing and legislating: outside reality and at the stroke of occurrence. That's how it goes; yes, ladies and gentlemen, that's how it goes. They've been losing elections for over a year. I would now ask you not to lose the north and respect at least the independence of the governing body of the judges. You have already seen what the report on the rule of law of the Union prepared by the Commission, which we met just a few hours ago, has said. It does not have just one paragraph, Socialists, the full report gives us the reason. Therefore, correct and withdraw this proposal. They are still in time, because in matters of justice not everything is worth it, Socialists. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u163	Thank you, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it's clear that the right-wings don't want this reform. Mr Bal, I would kindly advise you that the reflection period should be over, that methacrylate should be painted in blue and that all the reflection time should be saved. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, discussing the law of gravity with you is quite absurd and, for moments, it is certainly quite tiring. You are committed to discussing the law of gravity repeatedly. I can sum it up easily, as Mr. Bal likes; Barrio Sesamo: up and down, inside and out. Again: the Council has been in office for more than 1300 days, the reform requires three-fifths of the House, the reform was done by you. With you in the government things are done, in the opposition they are not done. They already have more than twelve excuses for not renewing the General Council of the Judiciary - so simple - and today we have learned that the European Commission literally says: Proceed to the renewal of the Council as a priority. First, renew and then reform. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is intended to help unlock the Constitutional Court. The Rules of Procedure of the House and Rule 150 thereof have also been discussed here. Mr. Bermúdez de Castro, the article says: When the nature of the bill or bill advises it or - or - its simplicity of formulation allows it. I believe that even you understand that this proposal for a law fits into the regulatory assumption. [[Rumors]] I said in my previous speech that you are no stranger to this process because when you had an absolute majority, almost twice as many Members as now - what time are those, right?!-, up to seven times asked for a single reading, two of which from a proposed law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u165	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u166	I'm done, Madam President, because it's all said. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, what are we talking about after all? Are you with the Constitution or the excuses? What are you guys with? Leave your excuses and please comply with the Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. First, it takes into consideration the proposed Organic Law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending Article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 15 telematics votes, 344; 176 plus 7 telematics votes, 183; 145 plus 8 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u169	Consideration is given to the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u170	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the Proposal for an Organic Law amending Article 570 bis of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 15 telematics votes, 344; 176 plus 7 telematics votes, 183; 145 plus 8 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u171	Direct and read-only processing is approved at the plenary session of the proposal for a reference law.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-07-13-CD220713.u172	I remind you that, having adopted the single reading agreement, it is envisaged that the debate and the vote on the Proposition of an Organic Law amending Article 570 bis of Act No. 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary will take place tomorrow following the opinion of the Democratic Memory Bill. The meeting was suspended until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was five and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
