ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the questionings are discussed in accordance with the following order: items 27, 28 and 26 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u2	This Presidency also submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to include as the last item of the Thursday session the request for the plenary of the House to approve the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on urgent measures to promote the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u3	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Organic Congress to improve the regime for the protection of victims of crime. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u4	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u5	Wait a second, Mrs. Gamarra. I ask for a little silence, please, to start with the agenda. [[Rumors]] Any time, Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u6	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. Allow me to say my first words to greet and convey my highest consideration and respect to those who accompany us today in the public gallery: the Association of Victims of Terrorism, the Association of Victims of Terrorism of Castile and León, the Miguel Ángel Blanco Foundation, the 11M Foundation and the Dignity and Justice Association. [[Applauds]] And I also want to especially greet three members of this House: Francisco José Alcaraz, Antonio Salvá and Jaime Mateu. [[Applauds]] This bill that we are submitting to the House today seeks to end criminal impunity, but also political, social and moral impunity. Today we face a transcendental decision, a political and moral choice between two alternatives: the first, dignity, choosing to support the improvement of the rights of victims of all kinds of crimes with the necessary reforms, and the second, the shame of denying them. In Spain in 2022, where we have the responsibility to legislate, there are 378 unsolved terrorist attacks; that is, in 44% of the murders of ETA, including the last, the material perpetrators of the crimes have not been able to be tried or convicted and have been the victims themselves, through their associations, in charge of alerting us to this situation of so many unresolved cases. The passage of time without solving crimes is considered by the European Court of Human Rights as a form of torture or internal suffering of the victims. To all this contributes, ladies and gentlemen, a prison policy in which prison benefits have been granted without repentance or real collaboration for the clarification of the murders and, thus, almost 400 families have not even had a trial. Let's make a little memory. What has happened lately since Sanchez came to the government? 209 terrorists have been transferred, 115 of them with blood offences; 25 third degrees and 14 conditional freedoms have been granted. And, ladies and gentlemen, neither ETA nor any of the convicted persons in the organization have ever collaborated to clarify the unresolved attacks. And how is this possible? Can we allow ourselves as a society to see how prison benefits are enjoyed by those who neither repent nor collaborate, while victims suffer and call for memory, dignity and justice? Yesterday, the National Court, and for the third time in just six months, laid down a release granted by the Ministry of the Interior and agreed to the degree regression. Justice considers insufficient the request for forgiveness made by this terrorist, a requirement required by law for access to semi-freedom. Gutiérrez thus joins the cases of Unai Fano at the end of last year and Jon Crespo, known last week, all in full controversy over the contacts between those responsible for prisons and emissaries of terrorist prisoners. But let's go further. What will happen in 2022 also in Spain? Let the ETA terrorists be honored for their release from prison. There is, therefore, a part of society that considers them heroes and which, by the way, only pays tribute to those who have not repented of their actions or collaborated to achieve the truth. Can you imagine that the Bataclan terrorists in Paris, the London subway or the Twin Towers in New York were honored when they left jails in those countries? It is unthinkable; instead, here, in Spain, it does happen. And, ladies and gentlemen, aren't we going to do anything? We are a society that defends democratic values, freedom and justice, and upon them must be established legislative reforms to make our society a reflection of them. There is, therefore, a moral and collective obligation to seek the truth behind each of the unresolved attacks to which we cannot and must turn our back, not only to do justice, but to honor the memory of the victims and so that they and their families can rest in peace. On the path of indignity are already located those who have created from the Ministry of the Interior a secret plot to grant prison benefits to ETA terrorists in exchange for parliamentary support, who should have resigned already, ladies and gentlemen, and yet have not done so. And we again ask here today the People's Parliamentary Group to resign the dome of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applauds]] Because, if we already knew that Sánchez, apart from all moral limits, had decided to whitewash the political albaceas of terrorism and to agree with all the enemies of democracy; if we knew of Otegi, neither a man of peace nor a man of state, but a terrorist; if we knew of the corrupt marketing of budget prisoners; if we knew of the intentions of the two government parties to add Bildu - that political excrescence - to the leadership of the State, we now know - and we know it by the Civil Guard - that Sánchez has decided directly to associate himself with the executioners in order to reach and remain in power. We now know that a Muslim, Kubati, is leading the prison policy threads in Spanish democracy. Now we know that the Minister of the Interior is a kubati guinea pig, a puppet of infamy. Now we know that Sánchez has hidden the door of democratic institutions from the fifth century, and we are not going to go through it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, their consciences also pass along this path and, frankly, do not lease their profits. Gentlemen of the government parties, they have maintained a relationship with the victims of terrorism from the government based on lies and deception. They are creating a story in which murderers become victims of a supposed vengeful society and a repressive State, as if we were a sick society, and we are not. Ladies and gentlemen, how should we qualify the creation of this secret plot, where the Secretary General of Prison Institutions, on the instructions of Minister Grande-Marlaska and President Sánchez, establishes a negotiation led by a terrorist killer, Kubati, who committed thirteen murders and sentenced for his crimes to twelve thousand years in prison? I say this to you: it is a betrayal of the memory of the dead and of the rest of the victims of the barbarism, but also of the whole Spanish society. This is a betrayal of democracy against the dignity of the entire Spanish people. Socialists, the messages within the operation cause nausea as they also check the familiarity with which members of the government are treated with the representatives of the ETA killers. Ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Party we have taken the path of dignity, on which we have always been and which we will not abandon, in order to strengthen recognition, protection and support for the victims of all crimes; protection which is not limited exclusively to material aspects and economic reparation, but also extends to the moral dimension. Victims have the right to participate actively in the entire investigation, prosecution and enforcement process, to comprehensive reparation and respect for their dignity, as they are demanding and demanding. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask the House as a whole not to leave the victims behind and to accompany us this afternoon in the process of this set of legal reforms. We ask you to vote conscientiously, to look inside and to support the consideration of this bill. It takes steps to promote in a special way the victims of the most serious crimes covered by the Statute of the Victims of Crime, who are not only victims of the crime of terrorism, but all those provided for in article 13 of the Statute of the Victims of Crime. We in the People's Party believe it is essential to improve the protection regime for victims of terrorism in order to fill gaps and to ensure that the defence of their dignity and of their rights as a whole cannot be sold by party interests. Act 4/2015 of 27 April 2015 on the Statute of the Victims of Crime, promoted by the Government of the People's Party and adopted in this House by a large majority, was a step forward in the recognition of the rights of victims. Since the entry into force of the victim's statute, its practical application has also led to progress in the protection of victims, such as the recognition of the need to update and extend the rights recognized in order to avoid situations of aggravation. And this is what we bring: updating legal texts to give answers that have not yet been found. [[Applauds]] We propose extending protection to the victim also to the stage of the execution of the sentence and the release of the offender by extending and legitimizing the victims'associations, if any. What we also propose to ensure compliance with the legal requirements for the granting of third degrees is the democratic proposal not to accredit the request for forgiveness with a mere standard letter. It will be necessary to report to the National Court, the Office of the Prosecutor attached to it and an assessment of the prison technicians. There is a real need for repentance and collaboration. In addition, to protect victims from intimidation and secondary victimization, it is necessary to establish enhanced protection against particularly serious acts, such as those of exaltation or public reception and tribute to those convicted of crimes of particular gravity related to terrorism. It therefore includes the obligation of the governmental authorities to suspend acts of honour to the perpetrator of crimes considered particularly serious in the Statute of Victims of Crime. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament approved in 2020 the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union for the financial years 2018 and 2019 and urges us to reform our rule of law legislatively. Let's do it. But we also now have evidence of the Government's motives for violating the rights of victims. What are they? To protect the pact reached with the representatives of the assassins of ETA; ultimately, votes for prisoners, and that is unacceptable to Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are you not ashamed that the European Parliament directly accuses the executive of violating the fundamental rights of the victims? All Democrats urge them to reject the ongoing operation of the political and historical legitimation of the ETA terror regime. Spain needs a quick response, in line with the demands of the European Union. This will be the case if we accept this proposal for a law. We would be giving a clear message of protection of the rights of victims of all crimes, but especially of victims of terrorism. It is in our hands, ladies and gentlemen, that this law comes forward today. All we ask is to strengthen clear principles: those of freedom and the pursuit of justice. In short, the memory, dignity and justice not only demanded and deserved by the victims, but demanded by all Spanish society. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, a very cordial and hearty greeting to the victims' associations that are accompanying us this afternoon in the guest gallery. The People's Parliamentary Group takes it into consideration as a proposal for an organic law to improve the regime for the protection of victims of crime, an initiative that, if adopted, will provide a great opportunity to update a regulatory framework on which the effort always deserves to be made. I also believe that, as Mrs Gamarra has pointed out, there is substantial scope for correcting the shortcomings that prevent the completion of the mechanisms for defending the dignity of victims and ensuring full respect for their rights. It is appropriate to recall that six years have passed since the General Courts adopted the Organic Law on the Statute of the Victims of Crime, which is one of the five laws, in addition to the Prison Rules, which are intended to improve Spain's provision of new normative instruments that are valid for society and valuable in the face of unacceptable violations. Ultimately, the aim is to increase the protection mechanisms for victims. In 2015 it was advanced in our legislation driven by transpositions of European directives and then - it should be emphasized - Spain became a pioneer country in the European Union in providing a statute that added rights and protection to the victim, with special emphasis on the most serious and execrable crimes. Not in vain for decades our society suffered the consequences of terrible terrorist acts. That is why it seems to me very consistent that it is the People's Parliamentary Group, the driving force behind the legislation that continues to be in force, which today also promotes this law so that, from its consideration and with the experience of these six years, we can make progress always driven by the memory of the victims and respect for their families and associations, which is something that Spanish society is obliged to do in order to alleviate their suffering and to respond to their great sacrifice. It is a matter above all and above all justice. That is why the recent reports of the past week which reveal that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has opened two channels of communication with the networks of support for prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA are a source of shock and outrage. Unfortunately, this will be a legislature that will be remembered by the policy of divestitures and concessions of the Government of the Communist Social Coalition in charge of the memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism. In democracy it is unacceptable to provide prison benefits in order to try to support government action in this House. We are faced with one of the blackest and most scandalous pages in Spain's recent history, because it is inconceivable that the Executive has betrayed the victims of terrorist crimes and betrayed Spanish society to the point that, as an internal report of the Civil Guard reveals, there has been a direct link between the Government and ETA's leadership to promote favourable conditions for the release of those convicted of terrorist activities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have often debated in Congress during this XIV Legislature on the grievances that have occurred with the numerous public celebrations with which the freedom of the perpetrators of terrorist crimes was received, deepening with them the already terrible moral wounds of the victims. Already in the treatment of the Statute of the Victim of Crime, certain shortcomings were perceived that did not resolve the application of humanitarian law, which, in favour of the offender - i.e. the criminal - relegated the rights of the victim. What was unthinkable of the Socialist Party, a key organization in these years of democracy, in this period begun with the Spanish Constitution of 1978, is that it ended up giving priority to those convicted in order to obtain and secure quotas of political power. It's not all worth it. The parliamentary initiative we are discussing promotes legislative reinforcement in favour of the victim of the crime. So, in view of the Copernican turn brought about by the decisive votes of EH Bildu and other political groups against the unity of Spain, I am sure that the forces that hold the Government will today reject an opportunity that generalizes the concept of victim to avoid oblivion and also extends, for both the victims and their associations, the right to information from the first contact with the competent authorities and, also, the right to receive information on the criminal case. There are other aspects that are also of great interest. This is the case with the amendments envisaged on the General Prison Organic Law and also the Prison Regulations, but I would like to point out those which concern with great scope the prison classification and the principle of flexibility and also the Organic Law of the Judiciary. In support of these changes, it should be recalled that our society, the society that is represented in the General Courts, the seat of national sovereignty, is insistently demanding firmness against convicted persons who have committed horrendous crimes and whose social reintegration is a quimera. Here we talked three and a half months ago about the abominable murder of the child ofLardero, perpetrated by a monster of recognized history of danger who had been favored by institutional treatment measures that ended up turning cruelly against society represented by a child celebrating innocently and happily the Halloween feast. These criminals must be stopped by placing them unequivocally on the part of those who have been or may be their victims. This initiative is therefore also of value as an opportunity to legislate and strengthen punitive measures. In short, there are many arguments to address the legislative improvements that address the regime for the protection of the victim of the crime and, consequently, I will respond with my favourable vote to the consideration of this proposal for an organic law. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u10	Thank you very much, President. Sweep on, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, any initiative for the sake of dignity, respect and recognition of victims - all victims - seems to us to be laudable. Now, the proposal that you bring here today we believe is not going to go so far as to use some victims and some associations to make policy. [[Rumors]] If not, tell me: why did you not present this initiative when you were in government and you had an absolute majority here? If they thought it was so important, why didn't they do it at the time? Political use, pure and hard. [[Rumors]] Calm down, calm down, quiet down.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u12	This proposal you are bringing is more in line with the Hammurabi Code than with the European legislation of the 21st century. [[Rumors]] That's what Günther Jakobs said was the enemy's criminal law. In this case, and from a purely and strictly legal analysis, they seek, on the one hand, to privatize the criminal execution by leaving it to the victim. On the other hand, it is even unconstitutional, because it goes against article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution when it speaks of the purposes of reintegration and re-education. You guys skip that because it suits you in this case, right? If we take into account the proposal they bring here today, the victim will act directly at all stages of execution at the same level as the Prosecutor's Office or the sentenced person and will have access to execution data that are specially protected, because they have been forgotten to amend the Data Protection Act as well. In addition, it would introduce into the implementation subjective elements that distort the meaning and purpose of the sentence and will condition the correct individualisation of the treatment, which is the guiding principle of the enforcement of custodial sentences here and in any State of the European Union. Moreover, I am not going to say that it is a big deal, but we could say that it has legislative errors, because they even forget to make a calculation of the budget line that will entail the procedural costs of this reform. Furthermore, it does not set out any technical criteria for determining the delay that these measures will entail in their own dynamics and introduces, as I said earlier, criteria that are closer to revenge or revenge than to justice in the European Union. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Let's see if he asks for forgiveness.- Rumors]] Take it easy. Moreover, it goes against even the criteria established by the European Court of Human Rights, and there is the Inés del Río judgment. This proposal you bring to apply it to the prisoners who are currently in prison, right? Now they don't answer, they used to talk a lot and now they don't hear. If so, this would condition the conditions of compliance of these people at this time and that has already been rejected by the European Court of Human Rights. In other words, you are moving towards a criminal model that is incompatible with the European spirit, which is also contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights. This is legal, but let's talk politics. [[Rumors]] Let's see, Mr. Hispan, what's wrong with you? Can't you be quiet? [[Laughter]] From our point of view, the beginning of reality is skipped above. Fortunately, the violence of ETA has been gone for 11 years, but you ignore it. You bring it now when the collective of these prisoners - because you have brought a proposal for victims of several crimes, but you focus on one, only and exclusively - has said that you ask not to receive them publicly and massively because you believe that it can cause pain in the victims. [[rumors]] The collective itself has said so, and you now bring this proposal? Moreover, it is inconsistent with the promises and commitments that you, the People's Party, have kept for years, when violence existed. We are talking about the Ajuria Enea Pact and also about commitments saying that by the day ETA disappeared the dispersion and dispersal would end in twenty-four hours. That was said by members of the People's Party. But it is also inconsistent with measures that you have taken governing with other types of prisoners, even for more serious crimes - such as state terrorism or torture - because not only do you have the record of having pardoned the majority, but most of them - members of the State Security Forces and Corpses - were promoted and decorated. Paraphrased Mrs. Gamarra: Doesn't that embarrass you? Isn't legitimizing state terrorism? Isn't it legitimizing torture? Moreover, it is inconsistent with the measures you have taken and with the support you have given to processes abroad, in other countries, all of them different, but in which what is called restorative justice and transitional justice has been applied. We're talking about Colombia or Northern Ireland. In this case, just the opposite: the principles of revenge and revenge when fortunately ETA no longer exists and its violence for more than a decade has ceased to exist. That is why I say that it does not comply with the principle of reality and that it is inconsistent with what you were defending and that you have even applied when you were in government. I was also going to talk about some Masses to Franco, the street and tributes to the Blue Division, but let's focus on something that our spokesman said a few months ago, in positive. Look, to the Euskal Group Herria Bildu, in all that is to contribute to coexistence, reconciliation, peace and for the victims, for all the victims, they will have us there; not in revenge, not in hatred, not in revenge, they will not find us there. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u13	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u14	Thank you very much, President. It affirms the initiative of the People's Party that there are gaps in the defence of the dignity and rights of victims of crime both at the execution stage of the sentence of the victim and even at the time of his provisional or definitive release, and in order to remedy these deficiencies or gaps, in its view, it proposes three main lines of action: firstly, to increase the capacity and legitimacy of victims in the execution of the sentence, and, as it said, even after completion; secondly, to give victims' associations the capacity to intervene and condition the criminal and prison execution process; and thirdly, to impose on the governmental and local authority mandates in relation to the right of assembly and demonstration and the Organic Law on Citizens' Security. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group does not share the proposed reforms, nor does it share the reason why they are encouraged, that is, that there are the loopholes mentioned. The current law already envisages their participation in the process, even in a controversial way doctrinally and going further than the directive itself on victims. The Council of State itself, in its opinion on the draft of the current Act on the Statute of the Victims of Crime, stated that it had difficulties with regard to the State monopoly on the execution of sentences and the realization of its resocializing objective. And now, the proposal for a law of the People's Party is based on a notorious mistrust of the justice system, of the prison supervisory courts, of the prison authorities and of the public employees that make up the technical teams and the treatment boards, and gives the victims and their associations a position, in our view, not for the protection of their rights, but for preventing, hindering and hindering the model of scientific individualization and flexibility of prison treatment, the proper deployment of benefits to the convicted in the performance of their sentences and in accordance with the legal mechanisms; in short, it prevents or hinders the prison evolution of prisoners, and this affects the proper deployment of the criminal principle of orientation towards the re-education and resocialization of the custodial sentences and the recognition of the fundamental rights of the convicted. The explanatory statement of the initiative sets out this purpose in a disparate manner by saying: Avoiding the possibility of certain judicial or prison decisions granting benefits to convicted persons without the participation of the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not give our support to an initiative that proposes the establishment of a penal and prison system in which a repressive and retributive vision, added with elements of a model that gives the natural instincts of people when we have been victims of unfair damage caused by third parties, is paramount. It should be recalled that we have already been critical of the drafting of the current article 13 of the Victims'Statute with regard to their participation in the execution of the sentence and especially in the deprivation of liberty. Nor will we support the initiative on the legitimization of associations in relation to individualized situations of natural persons. The Spanish legal order is based on strict elements of legitimation, which cannot be skipped or extended by ascribed to individuals or collectives who associatively intend to enter into improper and manifestly anti-legal proceedings from a procedural perspective. Nor will we give our support to the initiative, as we have already pointed out, in that it seeks to restrict the possibilities of the model of scientific individualization of the prison system for certain punishments and crimes thinking uniquely of terrorist crimes. Nor will we support the initiative on the right of demonstration and assembly. The courts, and in particular the National High Court, as soon as it could lead to the rise of the victim or the humiliation of the victim, have already established abundant jurisprudence taking into account both the rights of the victims and the exercise of the fundamental rights of assembly and freedom of expression. Ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of criminal law in the most advanced systems has moved towards the retention of criminal punitive power on an exclusive and exclusive basis in the hands of the State. The granting to virtually all criminal offences of the nature of public offences entrusts the Office of the Prosecutor with the task of promoting the action of criminal justice, without the will and wishes of the victim being conditioned by it, and has also established the State monopoly on the execution of sentences and its resocializing objective. That is why we do not share the proposal of the People's Party, because it is a breach of the public monopoly on the execution of sentences and its resocializing objective. We believe, on the other hand, that the time has come perhaps not so much to seek an alternative to conventional justice as to complement a justice that gives personalized attention to the victim and is oriented towards reparation, as requested by the Conference of Ministers of the Council of Europe in its Venice Declaration of 14 December last year, and to the way in which the Basque Government is working, and not the obsolete retributive justice proposed by the initiative discussed, which does not improve the protection of the victim, but which often introduces it into secondary victimization processes and does not contribute to the accountability of the offender. For the reasons set out above, we will not support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u15	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u16	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today the People's Party brings here one of those initiatives, one of those proposals for legislation that really matters to the Democrats, to the people that we have dedicated our lives to pursuing crime, to prosecuting the offender and trying to get reparation for the victims of crime; a law that, in fact and as its spokesman has said, entails an extension of the rights of the victims, a recovery of the dignity of the victims. It is high time, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you brought a good bill after you brought that ineffable pandemic initiative. We talk a lot about empathy all the time. We in the speeches use this word a lot because we see that the people feel a certain disaffection for their politicians, but it is that empathy must also be demonstrated with facts, especially at this time when good and evil are relative issues, depending on who proposes what. Everything the People's Party proposes is bad for the Socialist Party, but everything the Socialist Party proposes is bad for the People's Party too. We will always be on the side of all the victims of all crimes whatever the possible justification, that no one here can speak of the perpetration of a crime from this rostrum. All victims deserve protection. We have come to this situation of difficult distinction between good and evil because of their fault and because of their fault, because of polarization, because of the war of trenches, because of that politics of sides that they like so much. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] You rule Spain with whom you want to destroy Spain and you will have to rule Castile and León with whom you do not believe in the autonomous communities. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] What a business you've done! [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u18	You, speaking of the Kitchen Commission, said that Gürtel was a conjurer of Rubalcaba. I mean, for you crimes are bad as long as they don't affect you. But of course, we can say virtually the same thing when you condemn Alberto Rodríguez. And, about Republican Left, that's enough to talk about. [[Protests]] Don't be like that, I'm going to vote in favour. You look like Yolanda Díaz when we were going to vote that yes to labor reform hurt you the affirmative votes. [[Applauds]] Don't be childish, please. Ladies and gentlemen, this law that you bring here properly is very similar to that which you brought in citizens very recently and these Socialist Party gentlemen without any blush voted against us. And they voted against us also in the ban of the ongi etorri because Sánchez took off the phone, called Otegi, which is like talking directly to ETA, and said: Don't worry, that the tributes are going to be done in private. We immediately meet with a tribute to Mr Parot on the street, because, as we said, we cannot trust the word of ETA. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you now have the opportunity to rectify, you now have the opportunity to rectify that negative vote to the Citizens' proposal by voting in favour of the People's Party initiative, because you were deceived. Or maybe it's that you like to live deceived so you don't think about losing power, even though that would be a lot worse. Regrettably, it must be said that Citizens have already said this, that this began with the rapprochement of ETA prisoners, that it continued with the transfer of prison surveillance competence to the Government of the Basque Country and that it would, in fact, end in the third degree. What happened? The spokesman for the People's Party also said: The National Court has revoked two thirds of two terrorist prisoners. Why? Because he said there was no repentance. And this is what this law also affects. It is not valid with a unilateral declaration of repentance, the reports of the sentencing court and the Prosecutor's Office are needed. And yes, the participation, indeed, of the victims, Mr Legarda, participation; the victim does not decide, the judge decides. Do not demagogue, because, in the end, what you fall into is moral relativism. There are no middle terms here: either he's with the victim or he's with the executioner. Listen up, you guys. Be worthy and give dignity to the victims. And ask Mr. Marlaska to resign, because he has no name that there have been wasap crosses with the people of Bildu to grant beneficial prison treatment to ETA prisoners. They already told us that we were crazy saying that if Pedro Sánchez talked to ETA to ban tributes just the day we brought that initiative here. But we have already seen through evidence from the Civil Guard that you talk to ETA to give advantageous treatment, favorable to convicted terrorists, and that's a shameless thing, that's a lack of dignity. We have to be with the victims, not with the executioners. This is an initiative that gives a role to the associations of the victims to whom I greet, and is well-bred. Moreover, it turns out that the victims will be able to participate when the third degree is granted, they will give an opinion simply, and in the end the prison supervisory judge will decide, who must ensure not only the interests of the sentenced person, but also the interests of the victim. In the case of terrorism, repentance will indeed be demanded and tributes will be banned. But you forget in this law, which, as I say, is good, of something fundamental. Mrs Gamarra - I don't know whether she has been conscious or unconscious - has spoken those words that I too make mine: Dignity, memory and justice. But also reparation, because where you are not affected - and I hope that if this law goes ahead it will improve it, because you are ruling this country alternately with the Socialist Party and you have not thought about amending Law 35/1995, helping victims of violent and malicious crimes and against sexual freedom - is where compensation needs to be reformed. A third of the victims of serious crimes do not receive compensation, and, of the rest, half do not receive adequate compensation, and, on average, it takes five years to collect, because neither you nor you have ever invested in justice. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] In other countries, such as France, an administrative procedure is initiated, without the need for a judicial ruling. Gentlemen of the PSOE, have dignity, do not look elsewhere about the pain of the victims of the crimes and, of course, before Bildu do not look down, do not bend your head. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u20	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, of course, a greeting and a recognition to the different associations and entities that accompany us, and, of course, with all affection and solidarity towards them and their families. I am going to try to lower the tone a little bit, because, practically - with all affection I say - the defense that Mr Bal has made has been more vehemently than that of the proponents themselves of the People's Party in relation to this measure. I think that a little down to the reality of the debate and dealing with it more technically can help us to better value this proposal. The truth is that the initiative proposes a reform of what was the Statute for the Victim of Crime, a rule of 2015 with the aim of setting out the catalogue of rights, the catalogue of possibilities and reparations that the victim could have, with a clear definition of the victim as both the passive subject of the crime and those persons directly affected by the result, those relatives and relatives to whom it could affect, and all this by integrating into the Spanish legal system a number of directives from the European Union calling for this update. There was talk of a general catalogue of common rights of the victim, information, protection, participation, recognition as a victim, and a catalogue of extra-trial rights, with the right to information, the right to have support measures available, the exercise of the right to complain, or procedural measures proper to the victim, with all the legislative amendments that this entailed, while a recognition of the obligation to reimburse fraudulent victims, protection or recognition of victims, procedural reforms complementary to the payment to the victim of the costs that might be incurred in that process. Today's initiative to improve the regime for the protection of victims of crime undoubtedly takes advantage of the will to amend that legislation, but not with the approach that the title manifests. If you look at the title of the initiative, you point us to this improvement in the regime for the protection of the victim of the crime. If you look at the press releases, the press releases, the news on this issue, you see that the PP brings to Congress the law to put an end to prison benefits and tributes to the ages. They say that the PP law protects the victims of the PP to put an end to tributes and benefits to the ages. That is, the People's Party itself, the same proponent of the initiative, has already explained that what interests him is to put an end to the prison benefits and tributes to the ages, and not to what the title of his proposal really expresses. Your speech, Mrs Gamarra, has also gone in this direction, pointed to the betrayal of the victims and to the betrayal of the Spanish people, pointed to the votes for prisoners, and is that ultimately the only thing that concerns them in this proposal is the question of political topicality, the question of tributes. We believe that in 2014, when this was launched, precisely with a minister of yours, Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón, it was aimed at the catalogue of rights, it was aimed at the best social and legal response that had existed for those who had suffered a crime, it was aimed at a new regulation based on basic rights, on the participation of the victim in the criminal process, on restorative justice systems, on rights of reimbursement and on protection of victims. But today the aim of this rule is, without a doubt, a very different one. The reference to that rule was not only to resolve legal disputes, but to provide the broadest possible response to a situation in which someone had been a victim. The reality of what you are presenting to us today is to contemplate an ad hoc modification, a tailor-made modification in what you do not like about the current situation. It has nothing to do with extending the catalogue of the victim's status and has nothing to do with the good purpose of improving this regulation. That is why we will not support this proposal. We will not do so because we understand that it is a hot proposal, that of legislative reaction, and therefore that it does not have the necessary study and consideration as to whether this regime needs improvement or does not need improvement. And we will not support it either because it is made from the political use of a reality that you do not like. Instead of developing the spirit, functions and origin of this rule that appeared in 2015, you take advantage of this to make another harassment and overthrow the government. Undoubtedly, regulation can improve, we have no doubt and there is a long way to go, but it cannot be done from resentment, the way to go cannot be done by looking only at a type of victim. This was a statute that protected all victims of any crime, not only and especially the victims of terrorism, and, of course, we lead with them and their families, and cannot be the subject of a more detailed and concrete change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u21	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u22	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to greet the associations of victims who are accompanying us in the Chamber today. I'll be honest with you, Mrs. Gamarra. He had read his bill rigorously, had studied it for the seriousness that deserves the subject in question, and until half an hour ago - I really tell you - he believed and thought that this project, although for us it is legally inviolable, was sincere and concerned about all the victims. But you have come here one more day to use the victims at your will, to make political, to talk about the government, the minister, the president, other parliamentary groups, and you have spoken absolutely less about your law and all the victims, as reflected in your initiative. You have asked the rest of the House for dignity, and I am going to ask you for something you do not know, which is decency. [[Protests]] What I ask of you is decency, and it has already been requested by many victims and relatives of the victims in this country. They have been asked many times already, repeatedly, to stop doing politics with them, because not everything is worth scratching a few votes. What I think is worse than all this is not the proposal, which we can discuss, but the deception that it involves for the people who are accompanying us today. You don't care about the victims. In reference to when you speak of tributes and exaltation, I might remind you that it is the president of your party, Mr. Casado, who goes to Granda, to my land, to homages to the dictator in a church. [[Applauds]] You do not care so much about those tributes and the exaltation of the dictatorship, nor do you care about those victims. Then let them be deceived. Dignity also has to do with not presenting propositions of law which are misleading, which in their explanatory statement say one thing and in the development of the text another. Then stop fooling people, stop fooling the victims. This bill says it improves the protection of victims of crime. However, in his speech he had forgotten about women, minors and persons with disabilities, who were also supposed to be the subject of the initiative. So we understand that you have come here to do politics, not to talk about the bill. They intend to introduce protection that already exists for victims, in addition to amending several laws, which goes far beyond what is motivated by their own initiative. That is why I am not going to get into your game, of course, and I am going to do what I have to do as a lawyer and deputy in this House, which is to analyze this law and tell them why we are going to vote against it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u24	They introduce criminal policy criteria in a specific way with regard to the victims of terrorism, on what is already available legislation, as well as other collective crimes already have specific legislation, particularly with regard to minors who are victims of abuse, exploitation, child pornography and victims of trafficking in human beings, persons with disabilities and victims of criminal organizations. All this is reflected in Organic Law 8/2021 of 4 June on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence, and Organic Law 1/1996 of 15 January on the Legal Protection of Minors. With regard to persons with disabilities, Act No. 8/2021 of 2 June amending civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities in the exercise of their legal capacity. The same applies to legislation on violence against women. Article 1 seeks to amend Law 4/ 2015, of 27 April, of the Statute of the Victims of Crime, in principle to grant victims of crime associations procedural powers of representation and action during criminal proceedings, but we have to say that all such victims of crime have already recognized them in article 4 (c) of the Statute of the victim and in new article 109 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act, which state that criminal proceedings may also be carried out by associations of victims and legal persons whose legitimacy recognizes the law. There are also proposed amendments that affect the Prison Law, its regulations and the Organic Law of the Judiciary, tightening the requirements for implementing re-education and social reintegration measures that must also guide our penal system, by virtue - and I recall - of the unconstitutionality of article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, they do not imply greater effective participation at the end of the victim's criminal execution phase and the participation and protection that victims of crime already have in a comprehensive manner known in the statute. We do not believe that it is necessary or appropriate to modify the fundamental right of assembly through law or to add new cases of administrative infringements by the authorities or officials, which could also overlap with other precepts. In short, even if you are not listening to me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - because that is the education that precedes you - none of the proposed amendments entail new rights or updating or extending rights that are already generally recognized for victims of crime in the Statute of the Victims of Crime - and ended -, the framework and legal status of victims of crime, in the criminal rules and in the specific regulations of different types of victims. The day you bring a proposal here that is serious, that is rigorous and that is legally feasible too, do not worry, we will be here as long as you do not come to take advantage of the victims.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u25	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have decency, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u28	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what almost all of you want from the victims of terrorism: our silence. A permanent silence for the mourning of our family murdered by ETA. They also want the silence of the terrorists and their accomplices when they pay tribute to the terrorists by celebrating the prize of that advanced freedom, but they want the silence of those terrorists not because they humiliate the victims of terrorism, they want it so that they do not complicate to all of you what they have agreed with ETA. [[Applauds]] That is why I have to define that this proposal for a law is partly a fraud, and not because it is set out in it, that it is necessary and improveable, that is why we will vote that it is because it aims to simulate by giving more protection to the victims of terrorism, while the events that have taken place since 2004 and continuously by all governments show that all the laws that you have passed have been in order not to comply with them. Make the law, make the trap. [[Applauds]] Some acting like a good cop and some acting like a bad cop. [[Shows two press clippings]] But then we found out that in privacy, Rajoy was telling Zapatero: do what you have to do and you're telling me. Ladies and gentlemen, on these same dates, precisely one floor in the pamphlet of the proetara newspaper Gara said that the process was going to be very long, that it would have to wear those approaches and those discharges with supposed legality and that it would be dripping. Drop the drop so it doesn't generate social alarm. And that drip of treason and indignity has become a permanent jetty when you have approached five terrorists every week. Five for each of the votes of the representatives of the etarra party that we have here. [[Applauds]] Some of you will support this law so that the agreements adopted in the negotiation with ETA do not cause you any problems of social alarm and can carry it out; others, however, do not conceal it and directly say they will vote against it. It's normal, they've never been closer to the victims. Some are picking nuts, aren't they, gentlemen of the PNV?, and others even sharing walks with terrorist Otegi. [[Show me a picture.-Applause]] And during all these years, with the various laws that have been passed to protect the victims, a new victim has been generated; that victim is the truth. The truth that only VOX, only VOX, has requested here in Congress and in the courts, which are the minutes of negotiation with ETA. We're left alone. [[Applauds]] And we are left alone because you could hardly justify, if it were to come to light, everything that has been negotiated. Because, remember, the tributes that have been made have been with the majority of all governments. Unwarranted imprisonment has been carried out with all Governments. Do you remember Bolinaga? What a disappointment we've had many victims! Unwarranted approaches have been carried out with all Governments. Not persecuting terrorists to pay their debt to the State for their attack, as reflected in this non-legislative proposal, is something that has happened to all Governments. Prison benefits to terrorists without complying with the requirement to cooperate with the justice system have been carried out with all Governments. It is a disappointment as a victim, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this new law will help you to rectify the drift you have carried over all these years. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a permanent tribute in this Congress that we suffer the victims of terrorism are those five representatives of a party of ages, of ages like Otegi or as the newly incorporated head of ETA David Pla. [[applause]] If you are sitting here it is because you have all consented not to apply the Party Law despite the evidence that the Civil Guard had, and you have done absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, if you want to dignify the victims and do them justice, you have it easy, start by ceasing the unworthy and treacherous Minister Marlaska and the secretary of prisons, Mr Ortiz, by trading with the murderers of ETA. I know you won't because you're more than your partner, the PSOE representative in Burgos, says you have to forgive the murderers. How generous and how kind you are all! Right? They are and don't hesitate to trade with the sacrifice of so many victims, and you know why they do it? Because they're not their loved ones, they're not their children. That's why they haven't bothered to shake hands in the pact with ETA and have stained them with blood, with the blood of our loved ones. None of them, none of that blood was your children's, otherwise, you sure as hell wouldn't have done it. Memory, dignity and justice is the flag of VOX, it has also been my flag as a victim and we will continue to carry it, and in memory of one of the people who has fought the most, for that memory, dignity and justice and in his honor, also for my wife Mamen. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to address the representatives of the various political parties with parliamentary representation with the proper decorum and respect that this House demands. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Caballero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u30	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I greet the Association of Victims of Terrorism, which accompanies us today, here in Congress, and also those who follow us thematically. This afternoon we are faced with an initiative that should lead to a commendable debate on improving the protection of the victims of our country. It is a proposal to reform the Victims Statute in general, and all public officials should be concerned about the well-being of the victims, of all, and of all crimes, also of the macho violence that you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, deny. [[Applauds]] Even if the noise were to be silenced, we could have a constructive debate on how to improve the protection situation of the victims of the crimes in Spain, but you do not care very much about this. You have again used the victims as an excuse because you have come to something else, to the same, to the usual: to attack the socialists and this government, and for that you do not care very much about crossing all the red lines of political decency. If we go to what you are proposing, you know that none of the proposed amendments entail new rights, nor renewal or strengthening of the protection of the rights accorded to the victims of ETA. It is a proposal without legal rigour, whose aim and focus are not the victims. They speak of greater participation of associations, but they know, on the other hand, that criminal proceedings can already be carried out by associations of victims whenever the individual decides so. Article 109 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act, only to be read. They speak of greater rights for the victim while eliminating rights for the victims. I want to think it was a judgment, but you in your proposal delete the fifth additional provision of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which guarantees the suspension of the third degree or probation until the appeal is resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, if we approve your proposal, it would be possible to release the prisoner before the appeal is resolved. That is their legal rigour. But above all they lie, they lie because they know perfectly well whether or not the celebration of the ongi etorri depends on the last word of the prosecutor and the courts. They know that and they know that there were three times as many receptions at Mr Rajoy's stage, the difference is that the Socialists at the time did not use it to attack the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, for all of you in politics, you are even worth Bildu's votes when it comes to hindering the improvement of the conditions of Spanish workers; there you are entitled to vote with Bildu, there you are happy with your votes. In labor reform you are closer to Bildu than to the Spanish employer. [[Applauds]] You don't care much about the victims. Mrs Gamarra, you make hate speech, you fill your mouth talking about them and them, but the law, the memorial, the Institute of Memory, the celebration of the victims' day, the memory map, everything, absolutely everything in this country in favor of the victims of ETA, has the stamp of socialist governments, and the demonstration that you care very little about the victims we have seen again today. [[applause]] In his speeches, I have only seen politics do with the pain of the victims of terrorism, to compete among the three right-wing to see who takes the medal of the fattest barbarity, of the most disgusting ex-abrupt, of who insults the Government better, and even more regrettable, to try to confront some victims with others, to divide between good and bad victims, those, the good, those who serve the political strategy, and the bad, those who do not do so, those who do not bend to the interests of Casado and Abascal and therefore, yes, they deserve complaints that they then lose, such as those that put the extreme right against the Collective of Victims of Terrorism in the Basque Country. And no, ladies and gentlemen, all the victims deserve our respect and consideration. My colleague the lehendakari Patxi López, democracy defeated ETA and in no account can the killer cease to be a murderer nor can the victim cease to be a victim. [[Applauds]] We respect everyone, we don't cast their voice, we don't patrimonize them, we don't use them politically. It is they who are cementing a society of ethical and moral values, without forgetting, with memory and without contempt, yes, without contempt, because the victory of the end of ETA is a shared success. If today in the Basque Country no one has to risk their lives or take escorts or be a councillor in fear of murdering you, it is because many, like our Minister of the Interior, played their lives to defend democracy and freedom. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group is against any suffering, any revictimization. We are firmly against any ongi etorri, any disgusting act that turns our streets into a space monopolized by haters, whoever they are and what they call themselves. In Spain they know that this legislation for memory was made by socialist governments and already exists today and is being worked by the Government to renew it, as they well know. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, do not go back to everything is ETA, because we have already defeated ETA; do not play again with the suffering of the victims to seek political revenues and, so far as I am concerned, do not ever say again that not a single socialist, nor a Basque socialist, has squatted in the fight against terrorism, because we know which side of that trench the Basque Socialists were on. We were always standing for democracy and freedom, because to socialists dignity does not share it with us, dignity we have had for 140 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the memory of the victims, of each other, is also our memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u31	Thank you, Mr. González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Parliamentary Group VOX, on the amendment of the legal system of nationality. [[File number 122/00176]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u32	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the amendment of the legal regime of nationality. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u33	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is up to me to intervene to defend our proposal for a law on the reform of the procedure for granting nationality. In his speech against Cayo Verres, Cicero argued that the Roman civil formula sum, I am a Roman citizen, was to be a shield against arbitrariness at any point in the ancient world, any point in the Mediterranean of the first century before Christ, as Saint Paul could see when he was saved from the scourge to which he was about to be subjected by invoking his status as a Roman citizen. President Kennedy, in his famous speech to the Berlin Wall in 1963, held that the contemporary equivalent of Romanus sum civilians would be the phrase: Ich bin ein Berliner, I am a Berliner. However, these ancestors of ours knew very well that citizenship was a privilege and that, therefore, implied not only rights, as we tend to believe today, that we see citizenship as a kind of care worker, but also duties. In the case of Kennedy the counterpart of German honorary citizenship was the commitment to defend Berlin, that islet of freedom in the communist ocean, even with nuclear weapons. In the case of Cicero the reverse of Roman civilians sum was that of: dolce et decorum est pro patria mori, that is, there is a duty to defend the homeland even with life itself, to defend this homeland that guarantees freedom. In the debate that took place last week in the Madrid Assembly on the two deaths caused by the umpteenth street battle between Latin gangs, Mrs. Díaz Ayuso said two things: firstly, she said that crime had nothing to do with the country of origin; secondly, she said that some of the members of those gangs were Spanish. Well, in relation to the first one, it must be said that it is simply not true, it is statistically unquestionable that foreigners residing in Spain commit crimes more frequently than Spaniards, without this implying in any way that a majority of foreigners are criminals. In particular, resident foreigners account for 11.4% of the population and, however, 29% of the prison population, from which a crime rate of about three times that of the Spanish population can be inferred. This overrepresentation is even more pronounced in some groups: for example, the crime rate of Colombians is 4.3 times higher than that of Spaniards; that of Moroccans is 4.1 times higher, and that of Nigerians is 8.4 times higher. If we move on to the most serious crimes, which involve a sentence of more than five years, then the disproportion is even more pronounced, as can be seen in this graph. [[Displays a graph]] That is, men of American origin have a crime rate 10.6 times higher than Spaniards and men of African origin5 or 6 times higher. The progress consensus tries to explain this over-representation on the basis of poverty, ignorance, etc., but there was a time when the Spaniards were also poor and ignorant, and yet we did not form gangs of murderers, neither in Spain nor in the countries to which we emigrated. [[Applauds]] Therefore, the true explanation is cultural: many of these immigrants come from the most violent countries in the world and the mentality of a person does not change by the art of magic by setting foot on Spanish land. For example, the homicide rate in El Salvador is 100 times higher than in Spain. Of course, they must not pay righteous for sinners, as I said before. Of course, a majority of immigrants are not criminals, but it is of particular interest to that honest majority that strict immigration controls be established that prevent their compatriots from entering Spain to defile the good name of their country of origin, thus projecting an unjust collective suspicion on all. [[Applauds]] The other thing Mrs. Ayuso said is that some of the Dominican Don't Play, in this case, are Spanish. I guess I meant some of them have the Spanish DNI. Well, for us to be Spanish is much more than having a role. Moreover, such persons should never have obtained such a role. We do not want criminals to be able to obtain Spanish nationality; we do not want the savagery that only a month ago attacked with a baseball bat and then raped an octogenarian in Alicante could become Spanish one day; we do not want the members of La Manada de Azuqueca, who raped anally and vaginally in shifts at a 12-year-old girl, to ever be Spanish. [[Applauds]] The reform we are proposing seeks to change the procedure for the award of Spanish nationality. We think that the nation is not stamped paper, we think that the nation is a moral community, it is a historical project - a suggestive historical project, said Ortega and Gasset in invertebrate Spain -, it is a historical enterprise and therefore cannot be open to anyone. The specific changes we include relate, for example, to the time limits for obtaining nationality by residence. The ordinary term is extended from 10 to 15 years; the reduced time limits for persons who have obtained refugee status we leave them equal, in 5 years, and also the reduced time limits for citizens of Ibero-American, Filipino, Ecuadorian or Portuguese origin. But we add new requirements, such as, for example, for the acquisition of nationality by residence, a certificate proving the lack of a criminal record both in the country of origin and in Spain and, in the case of non-Hispano-Americans, an official language certificate proving their mastery of the Spanish language and also overcoming a test of knowledge of Spanish history, the Constitution and culture. We also add an assumption of loss of nationality by sanction for those who have dual nationality, namely those who commit crimes or are sentenced to a final sentence for crimes against the Constitution, public order, independence from Spain or treason offences. There are already districts in Madrid, such as Usera, which have up to 58% foreign residents. The consensus progresses rejoices in this abundance of new Spaniards of the most diverse origins; the consensus progress seems to not care if these new Spaniards share our culture, our customs or even our language. Last week, my colleague Rocío de Meer held in this very rostrum that what it seems is to progressively turn nations into neutral containers devoid of identity and to be replenishable with people of any cultural origin, and whoever dares to question this radiant multicultural future will automatically be mocked as racist. Former Czech President Václav Klaus has said that pseudo-religious worship of diversity as a value in itself is preventing rational debate on the migration issue, so I recommend to the left-wing gentlemen that they travel through this new multicultural Europe and will be able to check their failure. I will read a quote that is not mine - I open quotes -: 'The Arabs will never integrate into French society. Integration is possible between Europeans, because the cultural fabric is the same, but here we are talking about another continent, another religion; they will be bad French, they will never be French 100 percent.' - I close quotes. This is not said by Eric Zemmour or Jean-Marie Le Pen, this was said by King Hassan II of Morocco in an interview given to Anne Sinclair. [[Applauds]] Some will say: well, integration will come over time. No, it's not like that either, integration doesn't always come with time. It has been found that the second or third generation of immigrants are often less integrated than their parents or grandparents; it is a phenomenon to which Georges Bensoussan has referred as dissimilarity. The French Muslims practice endogamy, marry each other by 90%; in sporting events they boocheaLa Marsellesa and vitore the anthems of Algeria or Morocco; in terrorist attacks against Charlie Hebdo magazine or the Bataclan discotheque and others, several of the perpetrators were second-generation immigrants already born in France, with the French passport; there are areas of Paris, such as Bradford or Malmö, which already look more like the Maghreb than Europe, areas where women no longer dare to go out alone or only go out with a male companion. I recommend reading this book, Prey, by Ayaan Hirsi Ali, which is one of the most interesting liberal intellectuals at the present time. [[shows a book]] It is of Somali origin, with which I imagine they will not call it white supremacist. In this book, it explains precisely how the migratory avalanche that has fallen on Europe over the last ten years has led to a deterioration in women's security and an increase in sexual violence. Women in many European cities already have to avoid certain neighborhoods and do not dare to run to the park or if they do it is with anti-rape sports clothing, equipped with alarms in case of tearing. The number of violations in Denmark increased by 102% between 2014 and 2017, coinciding with the arrival of the large avalanche of alleged Middle East refugees. In the United Kingdom, violations rose by 70 % over the same period. On New Year's Eve 2015, the hundreds of alleged Middle East refugees who had recently arrived in Germany practiced in cities such as Cologne, Düsseldorf, etc., the taharrush gamemea, that is, sexual harassment in herd against hundreds of German youths; however, the matter was covered up both by the police and by the German press so as not to feed xenophobia. And what is the reaction of consensus progress against all this? Well, to say that it's our fault, that it's the fault of the host society because we're very racist and we're not quite hospitable. This is a simple suicide reaction. Italian intellectual Renato Crispín has said that today's Europe has two major diseases. One of them is oicophobia, that is, hatred of one's own origins, hatred of one's own roots and hatred of oneself, and the other is xenophilia, which is the acritic beatification of the stranger, something that, by the way, Pope Benedict XVI also said in a quote I don't have time to read. We don't think it's our fault.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u34	Mr. Contreras, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u35	It always corresponds to the one who comes from outside the effort to adapt to the morals and customs here, and only deserve our Spanish nationality, which is a high honor, those who are willing to embrace the productive effort, the culture, the history and the Spanish language. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u36	Thank you, Mr. Contreras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] It has requested the use of the turn against the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u37	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Group is bringing us today a proposal for a law on the modification of the legal regime for nationality. However, after reading the explanatory statement, I think it is legitimate to think that if, following this legislative amendment of the Civil Code that they propose, there is no hidden intention, such as to limit the rights of persons who have acquired the status of Spanish, as well as those who intend to acquire it. [[The Lord]] When you, Mr Contreras, propose without any motivation to increase the period of legal residence to fifteen years instead of the current ten, obviating even that in countries such as France, the United States or Sweden this period is only five years, or when you propose to increase to two years in the case of marriage to Spanish or Spanish, your intention is only to tighten the conditions of access to the administrative procedure of nationalisation. When you intend to limit the capacity of the Executive through the process of regularization by letter of nature, a procedure that is present in all the consolidated democracies of our environment and that, by its condition, is evidently arbitrary of another power of the State, which is not the Legislative, you do so to avoid processes of regularization, not to improve the quality of our legal system. You want to make the acquisition of Spanish nationality a race of obstacles. The aim is to make it difficult to obtain nationality with the ultimate aim of denying it. Ultimately, it is a matter of discouraging those who attempt to exercise their rights from doing so. Gentlemen of VOX, your position against foreigners is well known. To make up this position of rejection of the immigrant they say they are in favor of regular immigration. But, gentlemen of VOX, to make it difficult, to put obstacles and to deny behind a painful path of obstacles is not to be in favour of regular immigration. We tell the liberals, that we are indeed for regular immigration and against the mafias who exploit this humanitarian drama. [[rumors]] How? With the law in hand, with human rights, influencing and making decisions with our European partners within the European Union. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are interests beyond the improvement of legal texts in your proposal for a law. And what are these interests? What are the fears they hide? For they are none other than the fear of the different, the one who is not like you. [[Applauds]] It's one more twist in his hatred of the immigrant, the foreigner, the other, the poor. They mix it all up again in this bill, the ethnic and the cultural. Every day they look more like those who want to confuse nation with nationalism, those who give cards of good and bad Catalans, good and bad Basques and, if necessary, good and bad Spanishs. Mr Contreras, we have heard you say that with the DNI it is not worth being Spanish. You, ladies and gentlemen, what you don't want is for there to be Spaniards who aren't like you. His proposal was not aimed at improving the nationality procedure, but merely aimed at denying access to that procedure or making it difficult to access that condition. And not content with it, in case anyone escapes, they also facilitate the conditions for the loss of nationality once achieved. They insist on the concept of Spaniards of origin and on the history and tradition of the Spanish nation as the sole source of the right to be Spanish. They even mention that they seek to strengthen the condition of being Spanish through ties of loyalty and historical commitment to the past. That is, in your opinion, to be good Spanish we must commit to our past. To what exactly should a person who decides to establish himself or herself in Spain and reach his or her nationality be committed? Should we know the list of the Goth kings? Do you all know that? Yeah? How does one commit to the battle of Covadonga? Or how does one commit to taking Granada? Should we commit to the Invincible Navy? Should we commit to the conquest of America or to the battle of the Tolosa Ships? Or is it enough that we commit ourselves to Perejil's skirmish, which is closer? Compromising is knowing our story? Which one of all our stories? [[Applauds]] Because here there are many different stories, according to which I tell them, of course. Ladies and gentlemen of the proposing group, you are anchored in the past, not in history, in history with capitals, but in the stories that you tell, since you only tell the story as you see it and only the stories that you like. That is why I would like to come closer to another concept that is quite different from that of nationality, the concept of citizenship. Modern citizenship must be conceived as the link that allows, through the exercise of fundamental rights, a civic practice aimed at preserving the constitutional framework and cultural plurality. According to the English sociologist Marshall, the expression of the individual's full belonging to the community must be linked to the democratic principle and to the subjective collective that is formed from the attribution of citizenship status. Citizenship is geared not to the preservation of an ethnic or sociocultural identity, but to a political culture which in a constitutional and democratic State is compatible with cultural, individual and collective plurality. Therefore, the link of nationality should not be built in a democratic State with the intention of rebuilding a collective entity characterized by common signs of socio-cultural identity, as you wish, but rather to give personal content to a subject, to a person, to a citizen, whose element of common identity must be subject to the legal order, a framework of cultural pluralism. We are not naive, ladies and gentlemen, because, of course, the process of nationalization must be regulated; moreover, it cannot be granted to those who are practically unconnected as subjects with the State, that is, to those who by not residing must be considered as foreigners. But it is not necessary to deny the person who possesses such a link but to have cultural manifestations, even if they are not majority in the State, ladies and gentlemen. Ethnic or cultural identity cannot be an acceptable democratic criterion for the construction of the collective subject to which sovereignty is attributed; a civilization of nationality must run in tandem with the nationalization of citizenship. Look, I like history very much, but I believe that the only possible commitment to it is our democratic transition, and that seems to be the only commitment that you do not care about; the commitment to our democracy, to our great charter, ladies and gentlemen; the commitment to political tolerance, to agreement, to the union of all; the commitment to the different, to the opposite, even to the vision of a better Spain for all; the commitment to European integration, to an open Europe, a factor of possibilities and an example of European citizenship: a common currency, a common fiscal space, a common foreign policy, a common passport and a common defence of the greatest area of solidarity and social guarantees that has never been built in history. You, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, and we are essentially different. We don't want to be like you. We say it loud and clear: we do not want to be like you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We do not want a small Europe, nor do we want a small Spain. You want to close doors, ladies and gentlemen. We want an open society, open to talent, open to different cultures, open to different views, open to trade, which exports rights, progress and prosperity that this country has achieved when it joined the European Union; open to the freedom of citizens, of all citizens, ladies and gentlemen, because that is the only way to make ever better citizens. You - with your proposal you have shown - want to do quite the opposite of what I have told you. You don't want to make a better Spain; you want to make a small Spain. You want to close doors; you want to close doors to talent, culture, diversification, different people. We, quite the opposite. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we don't want to be like you. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u38	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr Contreras Peláez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u39	Lords of Citizens, they have repeatedly told us that they do not want to be like us. Certainly, we do not want to be like you either, and it seems that there are also many voters who want to be like you, judging by the results of the last consultations. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] You tell us that they are unconditionally pro-immigration and that they consider mass emigration to be one of the characteristics of contemporary society. I believe that this shows that they put their moral narcissism forward, that is, their progressive self-esteem - how multicultural and tolerant I am - to the sense of reality, and politicians are obliged to attend, above all, to reality. [[Applauds]] And the reality is that you cannot compare the time when, yes, certain liberal authors - you always claim to be liberal, even usurp and monopolize it or try to monopolize it - considered immigration law as a fundamental right in the 19th century, because the circumstances of the 19th century are not comparable to the current ones. In the 19th century it was an intra-Western immigration, of Poles who were going to the United States or of Italians who were going to France, western populations, and, therefore, there was no cultural shock, the clash of civilizations that today occurs with immigrants from civilizations very different from Western ones in values, such as, for example, respect for women. The West is an island of respect for women in an ocean of misogynistic civilizations. This should be taken into account. [[Applauds]] And who says it and who is measuring the impact of this massive influx of men from Misogynistic countries into Europe is precisely Ayaan Hirsi Ali, the author I referred to earlier, who is of Somali origin, and to whom I do not think they are going to call white supremacist. You always boast of liberals, for it was a great liberal, Milton Friedman, who celebrated that you cannot at the same time have a welfare state and open borders. [[Applauds]] To a generous welfare state millions of immigrants will flow simply to receive subsidies, not as in the 19th century, when one went to the United States to work hard; no, now many people come with a different mentality - I do not say that all, much less, come to receive subsidies. The ease of communication is also not comparable. Today it is very easy to move from one country to another, even for people who do not have great economic means; therefore, the number of potential immigrants is simply inimitable. Africa has a population of 12 billion, twice the European population, and it is estimated that by 2050 the African population will be four times the European population. The median income of African countries is seventeen times lower than the median income of European countries. Therefore, we have a continent seventeen times poorer than another one separated by 14 kilometres of sea. The situation is potentially explosive and certainly not manageable. You, who defend the right to immigration in the abstract, are willing to receive the four hundred million Africans who, according to a Gallup survey of 2018, would like to move to Europe. They're thinking about doing it, and they're saving up to try. It's getting cheaper and cheaper to jump to Europe. [[Applauds]] In recent years the number of nationalizations, of foreigners who acquired Spanish citizenship, in particular 53% in the last year, has grown steadily, and in 2020 120 164 foreigners were naturalized. I wanted to compare this figure - and I finish - with another one that seems dramatic to me: in 2020 340 000 children were born in Spain. It has been an absolute negative record for centuries; for centuries there were not so few children born in Spain. In addition, only 244,000 of them are Spanish mothers. The fertility of the Spanish women at this time is 1.25 children per woman. This Government, supported by progressive consensus, has designed a national demographic challenge strategy in which the words family, father, mother or children do not appear once. Then the lines are clear. It seems that the elites, both from Brussels and the progressive elites here, have decided that the solution to our demographic problem is to open the borders to massive immigration from other continents and not to boost national birth. Only a few Central European countries, which, by the way, are constantly harassed by Brussels technocrats, have made it clear that they have been betting not on immigration, but on boosting birth...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u40	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u41	... of Hungarian and Polish nationals. That is the model on which we want to be inspired, without that implying that we are refractory to immigration. Our demographic salvation will not come from immigration, it must come from the fact that Spanish families will have enough children again, and that will be what our policies will tend to be. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u42	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u43	Thank you, President. Mr. Contreras, the truth is that you not only cause fear, but I think you are afraid. Your intervention only leads to making others think that what you have is fear. Ladies and gentlemen, you're tired, but you're starting to be irritating. And worst of all, they're bad people. [[Rumors]] Yes, bad people, because they are mad at those who just want to have access to a better life; in many cases, access to being able to have only one life, to being able to live. To classify the situation of human beings as illegal simply because they cannot access a regular asylum or migration process is bad people. It would be simple, if it weren't for you guys being anything but simple. We have insisted to the extent that migrants arriving at our shores are not illegal, but irregular, because they cannot access a good regulated process to be able to migrate, and you know it perfectly well, but they prefer to continue calling them illegal, because they generate more fear, more discomfort and more hatred. That's why they're bad people too. You do not want to solve the issue, because this is how you continue to take advantage of it electorally. Taking advantage of the drama of thousands of people in very distressing personal situations to obtain electoral revenues is definitely bad people, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to ask the members of the Government, the PSOE and the United Nations if they will continue to let these bad people continue to take advantage of this situation. How long? When are you going to bring in a migration law or reform of the current ones to improve the regularization of these processes and of the human beings involved? [[Applauds]] I do not know which of the two is more to blame, whether the ladies and gentlemen of VOX or a government unable to propose a single reform that improves the conditions under which people who wish to aspire to a better life can do so, ladies and gentlemen, without succumbing to journeys of terror, without succumbing to journeys of infarction through the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean, without fattening the current accounts of the mafias, who are the only ones who ultimately win with this drama. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an important responsibility with thousands of people who call at our door and who have a horrific administrative process; an administrative process which these gentlemen are responsible for using badly to provoke fear in our society. Don't you see? It is you who have in hand to be able to do this. We're looking forward to helping you. I am sure you will find a great majority in this House wishing to help you in this. This is important, they are important things in the country, because they are important for people, who cannot be criminalized, as these gentlemen do, by the mere fact that they want a better life, by the mere fact that they want to be able to live; ladies and gentlemen, to live. If that doesn't move you, if that doesn't matter to you, if that doesn't matter to you at all, what are you doing here by legislating for all citizens? What are you doing here, ladies and gentlemen? [[Rumors]] Not for all citizens, but for all Spanish citizens. Of course, for Spanish citizens. Those who come will eventually become many Spanish citizens. Of course I do. What's left is to regulate that process well. Or do you plan to give the Spanish cards at VOX headquarters? Is that it? Because it is more or less what Mr Contreras has come to say, that here the meats and the DNI will have to give them as you see it, as the gentlemen of VOX seem to them. No, ladies and gentlemen, no, that is not the debate. Please really sit down and have a calm, calm, real debate. That's where we all have to be together, because this is everybody's problem. Don't do electionism every day, every week, every month, bringing here proposals that don't bring anything, that just criminalize people. There is nothing you have proposed today that has to do with improving the administrative status of citizens and migrants, and the proof that your proposal for a law is empty is that, precisely, you have not defended any of the measures, because all you wanted to talk about is this. Well, since I didn't want you to talk about your book alone, I wanted people and migrants to talk about it, which is why we're here, too. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u44	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr Martínez Oblanca, the Joint Parliamentary Group, on a position-setting basis.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. This proposal for a law represents an opportunity to correct the growing laxity in the demands to achieve Spanish nationality which is reflected in an insurmountable number of applications, the product of a erratic immigration policy, another of the black holes of the government of Pedro Sánchez that began, just arrived in the Moncloa, with that prime-time propaganda episode of the ship Aquarius. If the historical demographic decline in Spain is added to the question of elastic nationalization, we have before us a huge challenge, for which it is very useful to take into account this proposal for a law on the modification of the legal regime of nationality proposed by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very pertinent to recall and endorse in the explanatory statement of this initiative the unequivocal references that the Spanish Constitution contains on nationality in several of its articles, namely 11 and 149. The reality, Mr Gutiérrez, is that there has been a gradual relaxation in the requirements for acquiring nationality, which should pass through an evaluation of the applicant's sufficient degree of integration into Spanish society, as is required in countries similar to ours. And that is not a question of intolerance, racism or bad people. [[Applauds]] However, it should be noted that the Ministry of Justice has for years lacked the human and material means to properly resolve the collection of files, such as those of nationalities by residence, which involve more than ninety thousand requests per year and which are the most frequent cases of acquisition. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms that are intended to be implemented on the basis of this initiative extend the requirements for acquiring nationality, revaluing integration and trying to correct responsibly and in defence of the general interest the so-called effect, which for years has strangled Spain's capacity to host and put into check society, especially those communities and autonomous cities receiving from these waves. In these territories there are problems of coexistence that leave naked our inability to facilitate the involvement of many of these people, who enter our country in a disorderly, uncontrolled and illegal way. Finally, I would like to point out that, with the honour of obtaining nationality, which is, as Mr Contreras has said, far more than a role, far more important than a role, the contribution of immigrants to the rejuvenation of our population is recognized, but, in view of the serious problems caused by uncontrolled immigration trumpets, I think it is appropriate to strengthen this initiative in order to achieve the status of Spanish and, consequently, to acquire very essential and accredited links with the nation. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u46	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u47	Thank you, President. Today VOX, who normally defends the privileges of the rich, brings us a bill to defend the privileges of the whites. Besides, there's been a lot of lies from here. I don't have much time, but I'm going to try to answer them. Mr. Contreras spoke of crimes committed by persons of foreign origin. He has forgotten to explain that they are minor offences, because what Mr Contreras has not spoken about is white glove crimes. For example, you put tax fraud on Google and Mr. Trump comes out. Or you haven't talked about corruption. In fact, the most corrupt party in southern Europe is the People's Party, which is mostly white. He has also not talked about the corruption cases of his party, which he looks at as young, but you already have three: Baña case, Moyano Fabián case and Nogueras case. You haven't talked about the ranking of Pandora's papers either, where the Spaniards have the first place far above the rest in offshore companies. Mr Contreras has forgotten all this. He spoke of sexual assaults and had linked them to origin, and had said that migrants committed more sexual assaults. You have forgotten about the herd of sanfermines, the herd of Sabadell or the 211 group attacks since 2016. Mr. Contreras, do you know what all these group attacks have in common? That they're committed by men. Men! Not by foreigners or by whites. Men. You've forgotten about this, too. They are obsessed with the Spanish language, with which migrants have to take more Spanish language exams, and they have also forgotten the news that came out last week, their lords will remember. It turns out that the National Police decided to take the spelling and language examinations because they were not approved by anyone. This doesn't bother you either. That's weird. And then he's talking about migrants coming in for grants. You dare, that you are the party of the rentists and the Marquises, to come here and say that migrants come to ask for subsidies. [[Laughter]] And it is that, moreover, if you look at the proposal of law, they turn to the subject. Normally I would expect VOX to defend the way of nationality by blood. It is an essentialist, racist way, an idea of country and country only for the whites, but it is that they make another twist and say: the children of the nationalized, when they are older, will also have to take a nationality examination. But what you don't forget is a small thing that already exists in the Aliens Act, which is nationality out of interest. Look, today there is already a way into the residence if more than 500,000 euros are invested in real estate. This is already legal today and is a direct way of entering the residence. Well, look, the gentlemen of VOX are going one more lap, and what they want is for these people to be directly national. That is, the gentlemen of VOX want a country for whites and rich, a country of white-gloved criminals. I've been worried about taking this whole thing apart because you seem so serious and you talk so low, you have quoted Kennedy, St. Paul and even the Pope of Rome, but for many quotes, you have put forward a racist bill, and this must be said loud and clear. Some will wonder why the extreme right in Castile and León pulls out the results it pulls out. It is not a meteorological phenomenon that we can talk about racism here today and we cannot talk about the corruption of the monarchy, which explains why these people take vows. I'm done, President. That the Constitutional Court prohibits the Parliament of Catalonia from talking about self-determination, but that we can talk here about racist proposals of law makes these people have more votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u48	Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u49	It's over, President. And that the Supreme Court incapacitates Congressman Pau Juvillà for not removing yellow ties, but is not concerned that these people bring racist proposals of law, explains that in Castile and León these people get the results that they get. You'll see. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u50	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u51	Romani ita tamum. Mr. Contreras, you like dating, you know this one? Romani ite domum, by Brian Cohen. Seeing that he was naming Cicero would be more common sense if he had named Brian Cohen, taking into account that he has made a completely xenophobic speech. [[Applauds]] It is not new, it is not surprising that in this political formation, in general, the comments of xenophobic, or racist, cut, said Mrs Vehi. [[Protests]] Don't worry! But, in this case, he has made a proper speech in defense of eugenics. When you've given data on prison collectives, what's obvious is that the vast majority of people in prison are poor, they're from marginal or marginalized sectors, and there's the problem. That is why we call for regularization, so that they are in the system and can work quietly, do not be stopped because they are in an irregular administrative situation and, thus, indirectly, become people who have committed a possible crime or a possible offence. Normally I do not agree very much with the speeches made by Citizens, but today I liked it, Mr Gutiérrez, except when you compared us with your partners in Andalusia and those who take away their votes. In general, I have to admit that you have made a speech with which I basically agree, because it is a shame that in a parliamentary House in the twenty-first century speeches of the Europe of war are addressed, whether calmly or calmly or with appointments. It was an example that the phenomenon of 19th-century migration was not the same as that of the 21st century. Yes, obviously, but precisely in that 19th century it was when the colonization of Africa took place. That the Europeans didn't go on holiday to Africa! Wasn't there a cultural shock? Was there not a government that imposed itself on local populations by imposing a culture and repressing the one who did not want to assume it? I believe that history must be approached with self-criticism, but also in a global concept to see why things happen, why there are people in Africa who speak French, who speak Spanish, who speak English, and that, in the face of situations in many cases generated by the West - not only, but on many occasions by conflicts and by precarious situations in which the West, in some of them, has some guilt - it is normal that they try to flee or ask for help in those places where they know culture, they know the language that was imposed on them in one way or another to their elders. We're talking about people. The phenomenon of migration, which we always say is polyhedral, is primarily humanitarian, and that is why humanitarian action must be taken. I had prepared an analysis of the articles which they intended to reform, but as the proposer himself did not even mention them, why waste time in that misconception which is nothing more than a yincan of obstacles for those who have the right to nationality, who cannot access it by shortening deadlines, and for those who by residence or by applying for asylum can acquire it, difficult to give it also over time, and that Spain becomes the State where there is the most time to reside throughout the European Union in order to be able to have nationality, even doubling the standards of other neighbouring European States. Spain is already among the countries in which it is necessary to reside for the most years to acquire nationality. Of all the xenophobic cut-off data that have been provided, one is forgotten, and is that today in Spain migrant people contribute 10% to social security and receive only 1%, which is why we must be very grateful to all those people, to those citizens who today, coming from different origins, work in this state and want to live peacefully. That is why I value, as I say, the positive version of migration, not the misconception we have heard. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, with those who make up the government, there is the danger, and we have seen it this Sunday in the elections in Castile and León. We now see to the most extreme right blackmailed by parties that defend these xenophobic theories, and for this it is not possible to enter into the mental framework that they defend, but to do just the opposite. We are defending roles for all, legal avenues, that can be applied for work visas without obstacles anywhere, that no one has to put themselves at risk in order to have to emigrate or apply for asylum to Europe, or even that Spain ceases to be in line with asylum concessions throughout the European Union. The extreme right-wings are being fought by doing exactly the opposite of what they propose, disassembling their bubbles and defending more democratic and rights-based policies. That is why, when you support those measures, we and we will have with you and we will support all the measures that are in favour of rights and, how can we not, always and everywhere, we will be against those ultra- and xenophobic policies and defenses, which unfortunately we have to hear here and elsewhere in Europe in the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u52	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u53	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the consideration of a VOX initiative to change the legal regime of nationality contained in the Civil Code and the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform proposal, we are told, is being made, as has already been said, to strengthen the condition of being Spanish, to ensure that a bond of loyalty is established with the past, present and future of Spain, and as an exercise of sovereignty, since, together with the determination of personal elements and territory, they are the very basis of the State. VOX considers that the current regulation of the Civil Code and the Criminal Code on the legal regime of nationality arising from or not originating in Spain does not guarantee a strong degree of integration, which must be required of those who wish to acquire the status of Spanish or Spanish, nor does it require or guarantee sufficient loyalty and commitment to Spain, exposing as an indicator of the current one, in its opinion, the laxity of the legal system of the State the exponential increase of acquisitions of nationality, mainly by residence, and in a significant number by persons not belonging to the community of nations with historical ties with Spain, thus evoking, in our view, subliminally, a concept as archaic in our days as Hispanicity, and so dear to Francoist foreign policy in terms of retrospective nationalistic utopia, and not so much as an area of dialogue and joint reflection. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposed in this initiative to tighten the requirements for the acquisition of nationality, both in the temporary and in those others that, according to VOX, attest to the exclusive and exclusive integration in Spain and as a correlation of this hardening of the requirements for the acquisition the corresponding increase of the assumptions and laxity of the requirements for their loss. Ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the Basque Group, we do not consider the reform proposed by VOX to be timely or necessary, nor do we share its ideological justification, nor do we consider certain changes consistent at times with the purpose it claims to be pursued, such as the reduction of the time limits for opting for nationality of origin, either by the adopted adult or by determining the affiliation in Spain of a person after reaching the age of eighteen, or that, in such cases, when the right of adoption, aggravated at this time, is not accredited, the necessary period of residence is extended, including in cases which were one year earlier and now pass to fifteen. Nor do we consider it appropriate to deprive of content the way of acquiring nationality - it has already been said by the spokesman for Citizens - by letter of nature, charging it with objective requirements or even imposing itself in some case. This mode of acquisition of nationality is characterized by its exceptional and ex gratia character, after the Government has assessed the exceptional circumstances that may arise in a foreign person, and in exercise of its power to direct domestic and foreign policy. Nor do we share the need to extend the period of residence in Spain for the acquisition of nationality by this mode of acquisition, uniquely within the general period to fifteen years from ten, and abolishing the privilege of one year for three cases, passing it to fifteen years for the one born in Spanish territory, for the one born abroad of parents or grandparents originally Spanish and for those already mentioned who may opt for nationality by origin. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not share the added need to overcome written evidence about the knowledge of the Constitution, history and culture of Spain. If this reform were to come forward, I would ask you how you would qualify an aspirant who referred to Francoism as a horrific dictatorship rather than as a time of peace and progress, or as someone who qualified the Civil War as a coup d'état rather than a crusade, or who exalted the right of nationalities, Title VIII of the Constitution or the first additional provision of the Constitution. As for the need to obtain nothing less than an official language certificate, accrediting sufficient knowledge of the Spanish language, I would ask you what you are referring to, in the light of how article 3 of the Constitution refers to languages. Finally, it seems that we want to make good the saying of being more papist than the Pope, because if this reform were to arrive at a good place, I would already like to know - some other spokesman has already asked this rhetorical question that has proceeded to me - how many nationals of origin would overcome these tests, including that of obtaining an official certificate of knowledge of that which is called the Spanish language. Finally, we do not consider support for amendments to the loss and recovery of nationality, both on the grounds that they are introduced into the Civil Code and the Criminal Code and on the basis of administrative decisions in the cases provided for in the current legislation, since they appear to be different from those provided for in the Civil Code, which seems to us to be manifestly inappropriate because the Civil Code is the rule that complies with the principle of speciality referred to in article 11 of the Constitution. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support the initiative, because we do not consider it - as I have said - to be timely or necessary, and even sometimes inconsistent, and we will not support it fundamentally because we do not share its ideological justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u54	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u55	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start this speech by pointing out that, when you hear certain speeches, you have no doubt what are the examples of xenophobic speeches. You speak of immigrants with a derogatory tone, associate criminal acts with questions of culture or origin and, in the end, so much justification in your proposal by appealing to Roman law, philosophy and great phrases is to end up talking about crime and not just technically explaining the proposition they pose. The speech that has been made here is clearly xenophobic and, moreover, going into the background on some of the points that are curious, is that measures such as the loss of nationality by sanction in the event of the commission of offences against the Constitution, against public order, treason, against peace, against the independence of the State, linking a series of measures that have nothing to do with what you have stated before. And let me give you a little joke. If you continue to do so, in the end, many Catalans to stop being Spanish will also sign up for this request to remove their nationality; you yourselves. [[Applauds]] Joking aside, his speech that the Spanish nation is one of the oldest in the world requires that history books be looked at again. The Catalan and the Catalan nation have existed since the 11th and 12th centuries. In fact, Spain, as a concept, does not appear until 1714, but it is not until Amadeo de Saboya, in the 19th century, when we speak of Spain. Therefore, as for this Spanish nation that is so old in the world, review the texts a little more. And above all, when they make that mention that, ultimately, what they want is a bond of loyalty and historical commitment to the past, the present and the future of the Spanish nation, I have to tell you that the PeCAT, the European Democratic Party Català, is a democratic, Catalanist, independent, Europeanist, humanist party that works to achieve the sovereignty of Catalonia and, therefore, to us the loyalty that can bind us is only loyalty to the people of Catalonia and commitment to the well-being of people, economic progress and access to a state for Catalonia in a democratic way. Therefore, I am not going to spend any more time, actually, because I am sure that much more relevant debates than this can be held in this House, even some that the House is blocking, but I only want this proposal to be rejected by a large majority of the votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u56	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u57	Thank you very much, President. Declaration of the UN Day of 19 March against Racism: on 19 March in many countries, World Against Racism will be held against all forms of racism, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism, in the face of racist attempts to turn refugees or migrants and Roma, Muslim and Jewish communities into scapegoats, and in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. A key focus for many of this year's demonstrations will be to continue to demand that we welcome refugees and migrants, and that we oppose hostile, racist environments and hot returns, where armed patrols bring refugees back to the borders. The continuing and horrific deaths of refugees at sea and the appalling situation on the Polish-Belarus border are just two of the recent hotbeds of tension that reflect a much broader crisis. The large displacement of people, which we can expect as a result of the lack of action by Governments to address climate chaos, means that we will see many more refugees facing racist border policies, and further highlights the urgency with which the anti-racist movements must respond. We must insist that refugees must be welcomed and that they cannot be allowed to drown in the sea. The policies of hot returns that are currently applied and many borders - here too - are not only inhuman, they also violate international law concerning asylum-seekers. The current pandemic, combined with the failure of Governments to adequately protect their populations, and the imminent impact of a major economic crisis, have created a situation in which the most terrible forms of racism can thrive. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the disproportionate impact of the virus among racialized people, reflected in markedly higher deaths in these communities, has been and is a highlight. This racism is also reflected in the shocking lack of vaccine supplies to the vast majority of the population in the global south. In many countries, fascist and far-right parties and organizations continue to be a serious threat. These forces are trying to strengthen themselves through the mobilizations of the negatists; their conspiracy myths also fuel racism. The extreme right also attacks the rights of LGBT people and women in general, as a key element in their attempt to reverse the rights of all people. We must give a unitary response; we must give a unitary response to those attacks, leaving them without the possibility of promoting their hatred. [[applause]] As anti-racists, we celebrate Trump's march and Bolsonaro's future march in October of this year, while recognizing that much of his terrible legacy is still in force. On March 19, as every year, we will highlight the importance of our unity in the face of division, and emphasize that we must unite to challenge the threat of racist populism of the extreme right and fascism. Thanks to the Black Lives Matter movement, the deep levels of institutional racism and structural racism are being revealed and campaigns are taking place around the world to promote decolonization, demanding that the people, places and organisations that benefited from slavery pay reparations. The key to reversing the threat of fascism and the extreme right lies in the construction of comprehensive and massive unitary campaigns to denounce, reject and defeat racism, fascism and the extreme right. The danger of racism and the extreme right is now global, as we know. Throughout the planet, political forces are emerging that promote and feed on hatred, threatening the well-being of the vast majority of the population. Therefore, it is urgent to build a unitary response, to build a unitary response, I say again, in the face of this threat worldwide, north and south, east and west. On March 19th we will go out to the streets all over the world, look for demonstrations in your cities, with COVID security measures, obviously, to teach our unity against all forms of racism, Islamophobia, anti-Egyptism, anti-Semitism and resist the rise of fascism and the extreme right. World against racism, for a world without racism. They won't pass, even if they're wearing suits. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u58	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it brings us today a proposal for a law in which some of the sentences it contains remind us a great deal of the supremacy of the Aryan race practiced by Hitler. See how curious, because Hitler was not German, was Austrian and lived in Germany several years irregularly; so much so that Hitler had to set up a chiringuite to obtain nationality, obtaining a post in the Braunschweig City Hall, a post that he never came to occupy, like those that Mr.Abascal was riding when he was participating in the People's Party and was occupying positions in foundations without workers, without activity and for which he paid about 84,000 euros for nothing a year. Well, yes, Hitler set up a little chiringuite so he could get his nationality. Would you remove German nationality from Hitler? [[Rumors]] Look, even Mrs. Olona, who is from Alicante and who presented herself to Congress for Granada but does not live in Andalusia, wants to present herself to the presidency of the Andalusian Junta. So what do we do now? Did we deny you the Andalusian Health Service card? Shall we ask you not to show up? Do we deny you the social and political rights you have as a citizen? What do we do? [[Rumors]] Finally, you bring us here a motion for a xenophobic and racist law that violates several international treaties and that would have effects that can only seek out desalinated persons, such as the loss of the right to health in public health. Speeches like yours, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are prompting that, at the same time that thanks to the policies of the Spanish Government, crime rates are reduced, hate crimes have increased by 9.3%, being the most frequent - I say in order - racism, ideology, sexual orientation and gender identity, just coinciding with their speeches. What do we do, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, legalize them? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you bring here a proposal of law with the intention of provoking for us to debate under your terms, but I will tell you one thing, we will not discuss the lack of rights that you are accustomed to bringing to this House, in the same way that we will not bring debates giving room to the bubbles and lies that you have used to us. I'll tell you what we're gonna do. Today we are going to talk about the rights that we have and that must continue to expand, because democratic societies are characterized by progress in rights and not by cuts in rights. We leave that for the times of darkness that you want to take us to. Because they are not wrong - and with this I would also like to refer to the People's Party, now that it has to discuss whether it puts VOX in the government of Castile and León or not - they are today bringing racist proposals and, in turn, misogyny calling for the elimination of laws against gender violence, the elimination of laws for the equality of women and men, proposing models for the privatization of public health, or opposing the protection of the rights of working people and raising the interprofessional minimum wage. [[Applauds]] Far from the proposal that you are bringing us here today, we propose, first of all, to broaden the concept of nationality to understand citizenship under a logic of neighbourhood and not of exclusion of rights as you do, so that access to rights can be achieved as inhabitants of the territory. Secondly, we also propose giving priority to participation in society, first of all the fact of receiving and, at the same time, separating political rights from nationality, thus linking citizens. Thirdly, we also propose that, in the current situation, as long as access to full citizenship and the exercise of fundamental rights remain linked to nationality and not to residence - because it is of justice - a system of access to Spanish nationality is reasonable, flexible and affordable. Spain is among the six countries of the European Union that most years of residence request to obtain it. Reducing the years needed for access to nationality will bring us closer to the European average. Countries in our environment like France, Sweden or Holland contemplate half the time that Spain. Facilitating access to nationality It has been a request from the European Union since at least 1999, as we can see in the conclusions of the Tampere European Summit. I will end a very recent example of a person that many of you, ladies and gentlemen, will know. This is Louella Mint El Mamy, known as Lala, a Saharan lawyer living in the Canary Islands since she was nine years old. In 2017 he applied for citizenship and a few months ago, after the barbarity of more than four years of processing, he was denied citizenship due to the lack of integration, roots and legal permanence. After twenty-three years in Spain, having studied Law in Spain, being a lawyer in Spain, also acting as a lawyer in Spain and being Saharan - with what it implies, with parents and grandparents with Spanish DNI - the Administration considered that it did not deserve nationality. And it's that in the end it's not about whether or not we deserve nationality, as if it were a prize, it's about granting rights to the people with whom we share the day-to-day and with whom we live. The recognition of us as equals, ladies and gentlemen, is imposed with the coexistence of day to day in our workplaces, in schools, in leisure places and in the neighbourhoods. We don't hate each other. In Unity We can see people as equals, and we do so because we have a heart and because we are better than you. So to all the people who choose to be Spanish I just have to tell you that welcome and welcome, ongi etorri, benvingut, welcome, welcome, willkommen, merhaba, dalal ak jam, sbagôtôm. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u60	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u61	President, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law which is before us today and which, by virtue of its content and the laws which may be amended, cannot have an ordinary character, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, but an organic one, seeks to amend the precepts of the Spanish Civil Code on nationality and the precepts of the Criminal Code by incorporating new penalties linked to nationality. Despite the fact that the proposing group also uses it to make modifications that may be irrelevant and unnecessary, the fact is that they address the reform of two essential legal bodies in our legal system in the area of civil status and, therefore, in the sensitive matter that must be considered a matter of State and that it should be devoid of a purely ideological design, which ignores the Constitution and the progress made in this area linked to that of 1978 and to the commitments made by Spain with the international community and with the partners of the European Union to which we belong. Not in vain, amending aspects of the acquisition and loss of Spanish nationality also directly affects the acquisition and loss of European citizenship, as stated in a recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 12 March 2019. It states: '... the national authorities and courts referred to shall verify whether the loss of the nationality of the Member State concerned, entailing the loss of Union citizenship, results in conformity with the principle of proportionality as regards the consequences it has for the situation of each person concerned, and, where appropriate, for the situation of members of his family, from the point of view of Union law'. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, we are not faced with a blank canvas waiting for our creativity, but with a long evolution in the regulation of nationality in the Spanish Civil Code, which, in the light of the Spanish Constitution and the conventions and treaties ratified by Spain, has been taking place at the present level. And, as the doctrine points out, it must not be ignored that such an evolution takes place from the point of view of nationality as a matter of marital status, dependent exclusively on the decision of States, to a question of human rights, which has led countries as close to ours as Portugal to constitutionally shield the loss of nationality. The text before us seeks, among other things, mainly the following questions, although after the defences that we have heard and the very ones of the proposing group, it seems that we are in a completely different subject and, of course, my parliamentary group does not share it. First, to harden the attainment of nationality by residence, in particular, but not only by increasing time, as has already been said; secondly, to facilitate the loss of nationality when certain circumstances arise, in particular the commission of offences; thirdly, to incorporate in the Criminal Code the loss of nationality as a penalty; fourthly, to reduce the time limits for the option for Spanish nationality before the loss in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code; and finally, to modify the configuration of the granting of nationality by letter of nature, largely eliminating its graceful character, but maintaining a high definition. If we comment on any of these issues, which has been overlooked by many of your ladies and gentlemen, and starting with those proposed in the area of choice, articles 17, 19 and 20 of the Civil Code, we do not understand that one-year cut in the time available for the option, making it difficult for the person who has reached the age of majority to have a reasonable time to become aware of his or her situation and adopt a situation. And we understand it much less when the time limits of choice are not a subject of model design, but it is a power right that does not change; it is putting obstacles to putting obstacles. Moreover, what are the assumptions and it is striking that those born in Spain, whose determination of affiliation has occurred after the age of 18 or when the Spaniards adopt a foreigner over the age of 18, as if he had not suffered enough. Secondly, the acquisition of nationality by letter of nature is modified, incorporating requirements that seem to want to act as restrictions of what is, by definition, a graceful act of government, approaching a type of nationality by residence, when there is a long jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, to cite recent judgments, that of 2017 or 933/2002, which clearly differentiate between recognition and concession. It is true that some specialists say that the letter of nature is a medieval residue and we could really think of eliminating it or changing it absolutely. However, the proposal that we are discussing, which you are making to us, tightens the requirements of graceable concession by the Government, but we do not believe it can become effective, since the report of the Council of State is not binding and indeterminate legal concepts are introduced. In short, change for change, denaturalize the assumption and not move forward. With regard to the acquisition by residence, we have that substantive modification from 10 to 15 years. As far as enlargement is concerned - as has already been said - we are leaving absolutely all the countries in our environment, and that is making it difficult to integrate. If the integration that nationality allows is difficult, what other measures do they propose? We believe that nationality is a good measure and this is not understood. In addition, this new classification of article 22, is even less understood when one-year assumptions are reduced and years of residence are extended to persons with a high degree of ties to the country. And what about that mania that you have against the Civil Registration Act and you innovate in requirements, but if you are already in the decree of 2015. The Civil Code should not become a regulation. And that certificate of loss of nationality of article 23 places in an incontestable asymmetry with the Spaniards. Besides, how can it be fulfilled? It is impossible to have such a certificate in any country in the world, nor can it be obtained in Spain in the concession dossier. Finally, what to say...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u62	You must finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u63	It's over right away. ... to establish as a penalty the loss of nationality. None of the countries, even some that have incorporated the loss into their nationality or civil codes, consider it as part of a penalty, none consider it in criminal law. That's going back to the 1944 Penal Code, that's going backwards. We believe that this is a matter that deserves much consensus, that it is a matter of State, that it cannot be played with and that it cannot be criminalized. Therefore, with this model proposed to us, the Group of the European People's Party will not be able to vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u64	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Araujo Morales has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, this proposal that you bring to the House today could be considered from a legal point of view. We could tell you that my group's objective is that nationality is a condition for the full enjoyment of citizenship, that for its access it must be seen as a process of integration of foreign persons in Spain, and this should lead to shorter periods in the acquisition of nationality by residence. We could tell you that for us the nation of citizens finds its identity not in common ethnic-cultural characteristics, but in the practice of citizens who actively exercise their democratic rights of participation and communication. We could tell you that the amendment to article 17 of the Civil Code increases in one year the required period of residence which, as you know perfectly well, would affect mainly minors protected by the public administrations, the minor majority with vulnerability due to the documentation difficulties they face, which could create the difficulty of acquiring the nationality of these minors, which would leave them in a difficult situation, may be left without the right to health, education or even statelessness. We could point out to you that the amendment to 21.1 that you propose by adding requirements distorts nationality by letter of nature, while the discretionary character that defines it disappears, but they provide the exception of having provided military services. As you are well aware, the report of the Council of State is not compulsory. We could say that the short two-year period required for nationals of Ibero-American countries does not have its equivalent in other countries of Europe, except refugees. In no country in the European Union is a period of more than ten years required, being equal to that of Spain only in Italy, Belgium, Poland, Austria, Slovenia, Lithuania and the Czech Republic and lower in the rest of the Member States of the European Union. We could even tell you that article 23 would require proof of the waiver of previous nationality, which would include many citizens whose countries do not accept the waiver of nationality, and you know perfectly well which countries we are talking about. We could tell you that the introduction of the requirement not to have a criminal record in your country of origin is not only absolutely unnecessary, but is currently being done. We knew, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that you long for past times and that, moreover, it is public and notorious. What we could not imagine was that in this proposal of law you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, would revive the Criminal Code of 1944. With this proposal they intend to amend the Criminal Code, which, as you should know, is an organic law, a rank that does not have this initiative. They extend the offences with which you may be deprived of nationality if you are not a national of origin, assuming that it is strictly prohibited in our Constitution and introduce a new article providing for the possibility of depriving Spanish nationality by criminal sanction. It is not true to point out that Article 20 of the Fuero de los Españoles itself already established that no Spaniard could be deprived of his nationality either. The VOX Group brings us even further back from the Outing of the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we could continue to legally dismantle this bill, but what really needs to be dismantled is your racist and xenophobic speech. [[Applauds]] You are not against immigration, you are also against poverty, you are against the needy, you are against the weak, you need the help of the public authorities, you are against equal opportunities, you want to improve life, you want to improve life, you want our country to look for a better and contributing future, you see in our country an opportunity to develop as a full citizen. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are not surprised that you have voted no to measures such as the one approved by this government of vital income or that you have voted no to the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage or to the Act on abortion, to the Act on euthanasia, to equal marriage, to gender-based violence or, lately, to labour reform. You, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, believe in the conviction to distribute the meats of the good and the bad Spaniards. Tell me, do you think that being good Spanish is the one who declares his company in competition with creditors not to pay the workers of the reform of his cottage? Do you think that being good Spanish is the one who tried to assault a juvenile centre, the one that proclaims slogans proper to the crime of hatred? Do you think that being good Spanish is those who include those convicted of gender-based violence on their lists in order to then have to separate them? Do you think it's good Spanish to be convicted of serious accounting irregularities and to declare bankruptcy in order not to pay the workers of your company? Or did we talk about the example they had, of the VOX representative in Andalusia, who had to separate him for fraud in subsidies and scams? Are those good Spaniards who bear anti-Franchist symbols, or those who accept donations from the Iranian National Resistance Council? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they are afraid; they are afraid of equal opportunities, they are afraid of social justice, they are afraid of solidarity, they are afraid of the elimination of social classes. And I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of VOX: you must be afraid; you must be afraid because, as long as we are more the Democrats that we are on this side, we will continue to fight to unmask their hatred. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Araujo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u67	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group to suspend the issuing or granting of visas for entry into Europe to all citizens of countries issuing illegal immigration, such as Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Mauritania, as long as these countries do not readmit to their borders all illegal immigrants returned by Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, this makes me think that xenophobia is fear of the other, isn't it? Here really what there is is an atrocious fear of thinking differently, which you manifest in each of your interventions. [[applause]] But we're going to keep thinking differently and, unfortunately, you're going to have to keep listening to us for a long time. I know it's hard for you to understand, but we are very proud of our nation, very proud of our history, very proud of our families and very proud of our culture, and that no progress has been made to make us ashamed of it. [[Applauds]] Let's keep proclaiming the truth, let's shield the one who shields the truth. I was also a little concerned about one of the interventions, Mrs de Esquerra's, which said that 19 March was going to be a sort of international coven against racism. Well, March 19th, for VOX, it will continue to be St. Joseph's Day and Father's Day and no progressive religion will end our millennial culture. [[Applauds]] You want us to believe that some people are fleeing the war and that we have a duty to welcome ourselves as a multicultural society and also to devote our public resources to taking advantage of them, giving them shelter, supporting them and respecting their customs. And if you don't like it, you're a racist and you're a xenophobic, which is what you always tell the Spaniards. We are used to being told, it gives us a little bit of the same, but the problem is that they tell almost five million voters that they will probably have VOX. It is not true what you tell them permanently, crushing the Spanish with all their subsidized media. It is not true that some come, that is the first lie, come en masse, comes a mass immigration. If we collect only the last twenty years, in 2000 foreigners living in Spain accounted for 2% of the total population and in 2021 they account for almost 12% of the population, almost six million people, and in addition their own media say they want to increase it, until 2050, in another seven million inhabitants. I mean, there's not a few coming. Neither come, as the former secretary of state of his party said, raped women fleeing the war, to begin with, because what comes are men. But what war is there in Morocco? What war is there in Algeria? What war is there in Mauritania? What war is there in Senegal? The issuing countries of most immigrants coming to this country are not at war. There are a small number of refugees coming from countries at war, but they are not the problem we have on the table. [[Applauds]] And you permanently want to confuse the Spaniards with your Welcome headlines, refuges. If we convince everyone that raped women are coming who are fleeing the war, who is going to be against this? The problem is that they deliberately deceive the population to condition their opinions. But there are more lies. There are more lies because those who arrive profit from the mafias, which are the big business of all this massive immigration that you want to bring for the economic benefit of Europe because it is sent to you by the big capitals; I have told you on more than one occasion because it is the reality and, moreover, it has been acknowledged by Mr de Bildu in his intervention. But there's just another lie. We do not have to respect their customs when they are contrary to ours. We don't have to respect female genital ablation. We do not have to respect forced marriages, which have already increased by 60% in Spain. [[Applauds]] We don't have to respect the law of the strongest. We do not have to respect or resolve machete conflicts, because we do not have to respect these customs. [[Applauds]] Another lie is that you say that we have to devote our public resources to them, but our public resources have to go first to the Spaniards who need them. You don't have to go to this huge host mass of immigrants when in Spain we have 40 000 homeless people and 30% youth unemployment, when you turn up the light to the people 46 %, when the gasoline goes up, when the shopping basket goes up... Where there is poverty is among the Spaniards and that is what you do not want to solve or dedicate your resources to it. And, of course, we are neither racist nor xenophobic, because we characterize ourselves precisely because we love and want to preserve Spain, the Spain we have received from our parents, and we also have the right to do so. We have the right to want to preserve it and to ensure that our streets are not battlefields. We have the right that our daughter not be the 12-year-old girl of Azuqueca raped in mass. We have a right that our grandmother is not the 80-year-old woman raped and stolen in Alicante. We have the right that our grandmother is not the 90-year-old woman raped in Figueres by another immigrant and we have the right that our brother is not the man of Murcia to whom he was amputated by a machete. That's what we're entitled to. [[Applauds]] And why do we bring you here today this non-law proposal? Because we don't think anywhere is it written that Spain has to resign. Because nations and civilizations die and disappear and, if there are a number of States that are pushing Spain - Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia or Mauritania - by bringing mass immigration and not accepting repatriations back, we have to respond with our own sovereignty and we have to use all the tools of international law that are within our reach, such as the draft articles of the Commission that recognize the possibility of demanding and carrying out self-guard measures against States that are attacking your own sovereignty, as is the case. Spain must press internationally, because it is good enough that Spain is the laughing stock of the world, it is good enough that Spain is in Brussels not to demand its own and it is good enough that Spain has surrendered the southern border. [[Applauds]] Because who sold the Canary Islands? Which office did you sell Canaries in? Who has decided that now the Canary Islands has to be a great concentration camp? Who gave up Ceuta? Who gave up Melilla? In what closed office-tell the Spaniards - have you sold the southern border of Spain? And, finally, I know that you hate our identity, our symbols, our flag, our history and our hymns, but I will end up with a piece of a legionary anthem, Third Heroes, as a tribute to the foreigners who come to Spain to love her, to care for her, to respect her and even sometimes to give their lives for her, especially serving the Spanish Legion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u69	Your Honor, you must finish, please. He's running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u70	If you let me finish, it's my last sentence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u71	Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna let her finish, but she has to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u72	'Those who in Spain have not been born / and blood and life you give in his honor / children of Spain are beloved, / you have won his excellent love'. They are the first injured and the first saddened with this process of disintegration of Spain. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u74	Thank you, President. We agree that irregular immigration is a serious problem that must be faced and that irregular immigrants must be taken to their countries of origin, which, of course, is being done permanently. To this end, we are committed to a common European policy that deals with this issue, and this is what our amendment defends, basically because the border is already European and not Spanish. The measure they propose - not to give visas to nationals of countries that do not admit the return of illegal persons - says that it has been adopted by the Government of France and they ask to imitate it. Well, look, no. The French Government has not done this. The Government of France has reduced the number of visas, cases and conditions. You're asking for no visa. The French Government does not collect the blame as you claim. He doesn't rule Le Pen, he rules Macron. From his explanatory statement, one can deduce the status of potential offender of every immigrant, which reminds me a lot of that of potential offender that Mrs Montero makes of every man, and it is that the'man' campes wide through this Chamber. For other matters they claim that violence is violence, that it has no adjectives, that it has no gender, but if the violent is a foreigner, violence has gender, passport, color and whatever it takes. You reason according to where you want to get to, you don't get to the place for reason. It is called motivated reasoning and is typical of populism. The other day on this same matter the proposer, Mrs De Meer, wrote a tweet that said - I open quotes - 'Anyone who simplifies this cultural reality to make Spain a bar of 'citizens of the world' is contributing to its destruction and betraying its compatriots and ancestors'. I close quotes. I have a lot of fondness for our ancestors, but I rebel when history is manipulated and distorted for a political party to make propaganda. I do it with Esquerra if they say that the cross of San Andrés is Francois or if they say that the Generalitat has had 132 presidents, as if Catalonia existed before the Big Bang. With this message of barren 'citizens of the world deny VOX from all our past, and I explain myself. Tell me, gentlemen of VOX, when regular troops defended the Rif's blockades, dying Moorish alongside Spaniards in the Annual disaster, were the soldiers of these blocs a barren barricade of citizens of the world? [[Rumors]] Tell me, gentlemen of VOX, when Bernardo de Gálvez, in his lightning action that ended with the capture of Pensacola, looked back at his troops and saw blacks, American Indians and whites - by the way, all of them Spanish - do you think he saw a bar of 'citizens of the world'? Tell me, gentlemen of VOX, when Blas de Lezo defended Cartagena de Indias with six hundred Indian archers, fundamental to this defense, do you think he looked at his army and saw it as a bar of 'citizens of the world'? Tell me, gentlemen of VOX, when Hernán Cortés fought alongside the Tlaxcaltecas, - who would then be Spaniards in New Spain, by the way - and conquered Mexico with them, do you believe that Hernán Cortés saw his army as a bar of 'citizens of the world'? When Christopher Columbus went out with his carabels, the lords of VOX would have gone to the port of Palos to shout at him: But where are you going, Christopher?! Cosmopaletto! Stay home, you're going to fall on the edge of the world! Globalist, you're a globalist, Cristóbal! [[Applauds]] You would have told Fernando the Catholic that Aragon for the Aragonese - where are you going, Fernando, with that Castilian? - and that Aragon's border was sacred. Gentlemen of VOX, if you, instead of the twenty-first century, had appeared and ruled in the seventh century, we would still be at Covadonga at the height of a risk by throwing stones at the Moors because the border of Covadonga would be sacred. Do not use the ancestors of Spain against the Spaniards. Nationalism is fought with patriotism no longer with nationalism; if not, they turn Puigdemont and Junqueras into their peers with whom they have a simple lawsuit of linde. To face nationalism is much more than to face up to or argue on a border. We discuss a conception of the world, of the individual above identity. The patriot claims that the rights emanate from the laws and the nationalist claims that the rights emanate from the stones. When two nationalists argue, they fight for what the magic stone is. You're using globalist as an insult. Do you know what the first globalization was? The Spanish Empire. [[Applauds]] Spain was an empire that made different Spaniards and regardless of color or culture made them compatriots and provided them with universities and hospitals. The greatness of Spain is that of those ancestors whose names scream but whose lives do not read and which has brought us to where we are.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u75	Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u76	I'm done, President. The regulars in Annual, the Indians of Gálvez, the tlaxcaltecas of Cortés and the archers of Lezo gave their lives for Spain. Anyone who believes that Spain defends itself by turning their backs on the world and hating the outside is that they have not heard anything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u77	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u78	Thank you very much, President. The Basque Parliamentary Group will not support the proposal that VOX urge the Government to suspend the granting of entry visas in Spain to all citizens of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Mauritania as long as they do not readmit immigrants - not illegal, as has been said, but irregular - returned by Spain. We will not give our support because, first of all, this measure takes as hostages defenceless citizens of those countries who comply with the law at the expense of those who fail to comply with it, whether these natural persons or, where appropriate, legal persons, as could be third States. Secondly, we will not give our support either because it would help VOX's suicidal foreign policy with neighbouring countries. I would like to recall - as is already known - the British search and seizure order against Mr OrtegaSmith-Molina for an alleged crime of maritime piracy and usurpation in Gibraltar's territorial waters. [[A Member of Parliament: Spanish!]] We also know the challenge to the French Government, remembering the War of Independence, if they put their noses in the Spanish political pacts. We also know the incorporation of Portugal into the map of Spain in its line of iberism imposed in a campaign on which Spain exists and which prompted the demand of the political party Arri!, his ideological brother in Portugal, for VOX to retract. We are also aware of the animosity towards Morocco, which they attack on any occasion. It criminalizes all of its unaccompanied minors, claims its expatriation - which is not possible under the Spanish legal order -, proposes to cancel the summer operations of passage of the Strait and, in addition to recriminating the Green March, says nothing of more beneficial requirements for the Saharan people for the purposes of its nationalization, in Spain Because Spain remains the administering power, according to the UN, and for the abandonment of its international obligations. It also claims to militarize the migratory phenomenon with Morocco, criticizing the Government for failing to implement the Law on Citizen Security or to ensure compliance with the purpose of the defence, which would in many cases be an error on its part and an ineffective remedy on others. And there is an imminent confrontation with Morocco because of its certain irredentism, which is said to use methods of hybrid warfare through the use of migratory flows. Nor will we support it because it proposes to rearm the Spanish Army in order to compensate for the rearmament that Algeria and Morocco are carrying out and thus be able to maintain the current military superiority. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support VOX's initiative because it would help to punish defenceless people who comply with the law, to a suicidal foreign policy, to an apocalyptic view of things oversized painfully because, at the same time as this final battle that we are being offered between good and evil, less than a month ago in this House the spokesman, Ivan Espinosa de los Monteros, in this same Congress, before questions about the King's statements urging Morocco to walk together to open a new relationship, referred to Morocco as a geographically close country with huge links with Spain and with which a very important trade balance has been maintained for decades, adding that we should all maintain a good relationship with the countries in our environment, including Morocco. So, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I ask you: do you consider that this initiative that brings us to support the line proposed by your spokesman on 18 January this year in statements in this Congress? In our opinion, of course not. Then why are they bringing her? To posture? To keep a double speech? Why do they talk about permanent immigration invasion in military confrontation terminology? Why are they talking about a situation of national security interest? Why do they cite sources without authority on the connection of immigration with jihadist terrorism? And why, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do they brag confrontations for an imaginary defense of sovereignty? Why do they accuse others of not defending strategic interests? Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, why are you so painfully and so interestedly irresponsible? We will not support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u79	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today those of the far-reaching consensus present us two bodrios in the plenary and we should not lose a single minute in them. I just want to remind these pack Christians that there is no illegal person; I repeat, there is no illegal person. Today I would like to recall that ten years ago the Valencian spring emerged, a struggle that was the spark to evict the corrupt right of Valencian institutions. Today, too, I would like to recall at this very point that we have the opportunity to move forward. We still have laws that allow this ignominy and that will last if they come to rule. [[Shows a poster where you can read: 9 years in prison to defend Pego from the Nazis?]] Fourteen young people from the town of Pego are asked by the prosecutor nine years for protesting against a Nazi group that walked around the village threatening and exhibiting Nazi symbolism; nine years for fourteen boys from the village of Pego. Nine years for the young, for the Nazis nothing is asked. We'll see what the D.A.'s asking for Lorca's defendants. Finally, would the ladies and gentlemen of VOX give the visa to the Iranian Muslims who paid Mr. Abascal's salary for a year? Of course I do, right? Of course I do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u81	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u82	Good day. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after reading and listening to the GNP of the VOX Parliamentary Group, we had doubts as to whether or not to intervene, because we did not know whether it was worth the effort, as the previous speaker has just said. I say this because GNP is an amalgam of phrases, concepts, facts and assumptions. They talk about migration collapse, social crisis, territorial claims, terrorism, national security... But what is the driving thread? In the end, we have only seen that this is an anti-immigration speech. In this GNP everything is negative, nothing is positive. They don't propose anything constructive. The whole story is negative and catastrophic. It is true that irregular migration exists; that some countries at times use people as instruments of pressure is also true. But it is also true that it is stigmatized and labeled by the color of the skin or by the clothing and it is also true that the problem is the networks that organize and charge for the trips dealing with people. Why do they not stop to think about why these people reach the borders of the Union without papers proving that they meet the conditions of the Member States? Why don't you stop thinking about why these people risk their lives? Why don't you think why these people leave or flee your countries? It's not for pleasure. Making the decision to leave your country and your family and risk your life is not easy. It has always surprised me that all the people who lived during the Civil War and in the post-war era have been so quickly forgotten. I don't know if among the people in the VOX Parliamentary Group there are any families who have been affected by this situation. I suppose the family of someone in this Chamber did, and I don't know if those people actually met all the permits required to emigrate and enter another country. If you migrate in these conditions it is out of necessity and, in some cases, the need is caused by the so-called developed countries: by wars, by climate change, by fishing nets, among other reasons. You're talking about an impossible-to-manage migration collapse. They also talk about a large mass, but have you really seen the numbers? His language and assertions are really trembling and with his proposal will increase the number of people who will try to reach our shores without meeting the necessary requirements. You are also talking about Mali's release of jihadists and, as people from Mali arrive in Spain, some terrorist may come. Frankly, I find this association of ideas to be rocky. You are also referring to the European Pact on Migration and Asylum. Look, next Thursday, in two days, there is a day here, in the Ernest Lluch room, convened and organized by different entities. I invite you to attend and you will see another point of view. And I also remind you of the anti-racist demonstration that my colleague from the Republican Parliamentary Group mentioned on March 19. It would also be very interesting for them to open their minds and see what is said there. Finally, on the countermeasures mentioned in your proposal, stop using this argument in much of the texts that you are presenting to us and, if you do so, do so in the right way. There's a lot of bibliography about what's a countermeasure and what's not.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u83	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u84	You too speak in the text of the fight against terrorism. Since Junts per Catalunya we have asked for a commission of inquiry on 17 August and it has never been granted. And, Mrs De Meer, I am not afraid to think or speak differently; on the contrary, I am very proud to do so and more about you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u86	Thank you very much, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Racism, under specific forms such as Islamophobia, anti-Semitism and anti-Egyptism, is aggravated everywhere. As a result, we are facing a worrying increase in hate crimes. We reject institutional racism and all forms of racism and hatred. We sympathize with the refugees and migrants and, in particular, with the young people who have emigrated, who are subjected to a terrible campaign of criminalization and stigmatization. We support the popular legislative initiative of regularisation, which is already trying to ensure that more than 600,000 people in an irregular administrative situation in the Spanish State have access to rights. Rights for all, 'all' and all! The rise of racism and the extreme right are a threat to the vast majority of the population. If we allow them to attack one group or part of the population with impunity today, tomorrow it will be another and the day after another. So for reasons of solidarity and even for personal interest, we must respond to the rise of hatred with a firm and unitary defence - I repeat, firm and unitary - of the rights of all people, without discrimination or exclusion. As the world today stands, with the economic crisis, the climate emergency and the permanent threat of war, anyone can encounter the need to flee to save his life. We must treat the other people as we would like them to treat us ourselves. The extreme right is growing very dangerously around the world, taking advantage of the various crises and now the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, the institutional presence of the ultra party is aggravating racism, machism, LGBTphobia or anti-Gypsyism. They already existed, but they're getting worse. They promote ultra-exclusive nationalism, with a strong component of visceral hatred against anything other than 'One, big and free!' of Francoism. The other parties that copy his speech become accomplices to the ultras and multiply the influence of their retrograde policies. To eliminate this dynamic, in addition to fighting hate ideas in general, we must fight to stop the extreme right in a unitary way; I repeat, fight in a unitary way. We cannot allow the rise of the far right, whatever flag it shakes. Stop IDs! There is already growing resistance to the rise of fascism, extreme right and racist populism in different countries, and this resistance has shown that it can be effective. We now need more international unity and solidarity to confront racism and the extreme right. [[He finishes his intervention in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u87	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u88	Thank you, President. Once again, VOX comes to tell us that its star proposal to face the social crisis in which we are ousting migrants from the Maghreb, not that the agrarian employers who assaulted Lorca comply with the labour laws and pay the workers in the countryside, whether born here or abroad, decent wages; not that the great speculators, many of them foreigners, to whom VOX puts a red carpet, pay taxes to finance the health and education, which they are of all; not that we have a plan for Africa, a migration pact that prevents thousands of families from being forced to migrate from their land as a result of wars, as a result of dictatorships and as a result of the plundering of resources, in which we also have a responsibility. [[applause]] No, its magic recipe is to expel men and women who with great effort earn bread every day by doing jobs that no one or very few people want to do; people who during the pandemic have collected food in the field, cared for our families, worked in hospitals and kept the economy on their feet; people who have been paying taxes for years and who when they are regularized contribute and are a tip to save the pensions of our elders. Their recipe is to attack them and stigmatize them every damn day, and the most pathetic thing is that they do it by imitating as a fellow to the extreme right French, Le Pen, to Zemmour, with a ridiculous result. Who thinks they are going to believe that the great problem of Spain is the migrants coming from Tunisia or Mauritania? Of course not, but yours is to play the crusade against the infidels not to mention that privileged 1% that does eschew our families and to deny the diverse land that we are. If it were for you, ladies and gentlemen, the expulsion of those who do not fit into your asphyxiating idea of Spain would have begun a while ago. If it were for you, you should have expelled Averroes and Maimonides, two of the greatest wise men born in Cordoba in the 12th century; Averroes for being a Muslim and Maimonides for being a Jew. [[Applauds]] Cervantes himself, for his emotional defense in El Quixote of the friendship between Sancho and Morisco Ricote, was also expelled. Federico García Lorca, for his praise in love with Arab-Andalusian culture, expelled; or, worse, shot and thrown into a ditch. Who the hell, gentlemen of VOX, fits into your Spain full of hate that only knows how to intrude? If even the Cid Campeador, with whom they have been beating us for years, should be expelled for having worked at the service of the Moorish kings in Zaragoza! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, read the last names, look at the physiognomy of the Members of this House, also those of VOX; by the way, Mr Abascal is not here today. Don't you see the mixes? Don't you see the accents? Don't you see the mestizaje that we are already? What does this self-indulgence do for you? To what does this pathetic sick hatred obey our diverse ancestors? Is your fear of the East, as Antonio Machado said, a fear of sleep or a fear of awakening? What is at stake here, ladies and gentlemen, is that you would not simply expel the Muslim people; you expelled the Roma, the feminists, the Jews, the LGBTI, the Republicans, the Socialists, the Communists or the Pope himself; you expelled or illegalized millions of Spaniards, Basques, Catalans, Andalusians, Latin Americans and Africans who live here and who are from here but who are not going to bow to your idea of Spain, small and neo-rancist. If it were for you, ladies and gentlemen, terrible attacks like the one we suffered in Barcelona on the Ramblas, which I do not forget, would have been resolved not by accompanying the victims and asking for justice, but by sowing and inoculating the poison of hatred, by installing rejection of the neighbor and adding more pain to the pain. And the question is: All this to impose what? What would be the chastity parameter to which the rest should be assimilated without joke: Dew Meer, Ortega Smith, Hermann Tertsch? To force our children to swear to the four winds that at Covadonga Pelayo defeated the Muslims, even if it is a hoax and a lie? Is that the parameter? [[Applauds]] By using four words of Arabic origin that have enriched the Castilian, the speech that they have brought us here is sapphire, is petty and is a trick with less complexity than a dowry. [[Applauds]] And that's why, as much as they bark, as much as they spread bubbles, as much as they lie, they won't prevail, because deep down yours is a servile discourse with a very small economic minority and because the diverse land of diverse people that we are and want to be, that land no longer has to turn back. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u90	Thank you, President. As they would say in my country, in Cadiz, it is a shame to hear representatives of the Republican Left give lessons on integration to migrants, give lessons of hatred and racism, when municipalities governed by the Republican Left are discriminating against migrant groups for not supporting the independence process; it is a shame. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, that there is an irregular immigration problem in Spain is an unquestionable reality that we have been warning in recent years from the People's Parliamentary Group. The so-called effect driven by the erratic migration policies of the government of Pedro Sánchez, which began with the famous Aquarius, has continued day by day, causing historical increases in the arrivals of irregular migrants to our country. Today Andalusia, Valencia, Balearic Islands, Murcia, the Basque Country, Catalonia and especially Ceuta, Melilla and the Canary Islands suffer very important migration crises. Irregular migration brings only problems, but there is only one culprit in this situation: the government of Pedro Sánchez and those who support it. From the People's Party we always defend regular migration, and never irregular migration, to which we must put an end by fighting against the mafia who traffic with people, and this must be a basic priority, based on cooperation between countries I say well, cooperation between countries; secondly, by studying applications for asylum and refuge, in accordance with the international commitments of Spain and European legislation; thirdly, by implementing policies from the European institutions to try to solve the problem of irregular migration; fourthly, by adopting measures to combat the mafia who camp wide in this country thanks to the migration policies of this Government, and, lastly, by protecting our borders with the deployment of forces and security forces and, also, something very important, the deployment of Frontex. These are the measures, ladies and gentlemen, which the People's Party would implement in Spain. These are the measures that Spain needs to combat and put an end to irregular migration, which brings only problems, including more than 2500 people who died on the coast of the Canary Islands to reach our country. These are the measures that would be adopted by a People's Party government with Pablo Casado, in the face of ideas presented by other parties with completely demagogic proposals, and I give them several examples. Today VOX brings this GNP, in which it calls for the suspension of the issuance of visas for several Maghreb countries, and therefore this proposal would prohibit the legal entry of persons of these nationalities who come with employment contracts. I ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen of VOX: If the issue of visas is suspended, who covers the missing labour force in the Spanish field? Who collects Valencia's oranges? Who picks the strawberry in Huelva? Who collects Jaén's olives, where 20,000 timers attend each year through these visas that want to suspend the VOX party? This non-law proposal brought by VOX today is inappropriate for a responsible party, calling for the suspension of entry visas to Spain for all citizens of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Mauritania. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, this proposal seeks to prevent one of the legal channels of immigration, which is used, as I said earlier, for employment contracts, which are also needed in Spain in certain sectors. They want to confuse the population by linking illegal immigration with legal entry by means of visas. This is really surprising, and also with false arguments, because in France the issuance of visas has not been suspended, and this is not done by any serious country. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, there are things that unite us, but there are many that separate us. For us migrants are people and as such must be treated. And by the way, a curiosity: Why do they put us in the proposal of their GNP these expulsion data, which are not accepted by Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia or Mauritania? What criteria have they used to set attention in these countries? We ask, please, a little more rigour, because it is PNL, sincerely, there is nowhere to take it. From the People's Party - and he concluded - we always bet on collaboration, cooperation and dialogue with these countries, and never on threats. Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Mauritania do not win anything by confronting Spain, and, of course, Spain does not win anything by confronting these countries, especially when we share matters of general interest, such as the provision of energy or very powerful information services to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u91	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u92	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this GNP, which only proposes unilateral measures, we from the People's Party are calling for dialogue between countries and a European solution, hence the European pact on migration and asylum. To vote yes to this proposal, far from solving the migration problem of this country, would aggravate it, also generating diplomatic conflicts, and there you will never find the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u93	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Diouf Dioh has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u94	Good afternoon. Our condolences for the seven dead and fourteen missing in Newfoundland, including immigrant workers. [[Applauds]] President, ladies and gentlemen, while we were attending the last plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, after which the labour reform was approved, and where it was portrayed who we are on the side of social justice and access to the EUR 12 billion at this first stage of the year, thus fulfilling our commitment to the European Union for the economic recovery of this country, the informal Council of Ministers of the Interior was held in France, where the fight against terrorism has been addressed since the reform of the Schengen area. The Minister of the Interior, Grand-Marlaska, once again declared his commitment to further progress in the migration and asylum pact, giving a gradual and pragmatic approach that does not exclude solidarity, because we need to enhance the external dimension of migration policy and act preventively in countries of origin and transit. This is our policy, endorsed by the European Union and in accordance with the global pact on migration, reaffirming that we must safeguard the spirit with which the Schengen area was created. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat the Minister's words: The external borders are not from Spain, they are the borders of the European Union. The challenge of irregular immigration is a challenge for the European Union, quite the opposite of the proposal for this anti-European initiative. For us, the socialists and the socialists, reciprocity and coherence in the approach to rights for the migrant and refugee population in this country, as well as for Spanish citizenship abroad, is the frame of reference of our actions. Migration poses challenges and opportunities for countries of origin and host countries, but these challenges must be addressed, as reflected in the Spanish Constitution, through the higher values of our legal system: freedom, justice, equality, and our political pluralism in order to establish an advanced democratic society and to make progress in strengthening peaceful and effective relations among all the peoples of the planet. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court ruled on inconsistency and impreciseness, and stressed that there should be an escape from objectively confused situations as they may run counter to one of the strongest pillars of the rule of law, the principle of legal certainty, because, if there is no security, the rule of law is in danger. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, your GNP is more typical of a serial script, it seems like a file from an inquisitor's court. What do you want? What are you looking for? They want to contaminate us with their paranoia. Do you expect us to suspend visas because there is an invasion of migrants? Listen, I repeat: first, there are no illegal people; second, there is no invasion; third, the only thing that can become illegal is your party. [[applause]] For his hoaxes on social media, for his hateful and highly dangerous comments for coexistence, for his xenophobic, racist and anti-feminist comments, VOX is the only thing that should or should be suspended. How many laws were passed last year in the Madrid Community? What's going on in Murcia? His disgovernments, by the hand of the ultra-right - and he spoke of the PP and of Citizens - fill the lives of people with social alarm, fanaticism, racism and hate speech. Mr. Contreras, what an intervention! There are good Spaniards who, if they could, today will take away their nationality. What a level, Mr Contreras, when comparing these two nations, France and Spain is supposed to be the first. As for the French colony, it was not like the Spanish one in the administrative organization or in the process of independence nor was it during the same centuries; it is the same tufo that we have in this GNP. Finally, in ancient Greece they already distinguished the world from the shadow and the world from the light, gentlemen of VOX. Recalling The Republic of Plato, leave the cave, please, and stop living in the world of shadows. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs De Meer Méndez, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u96	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u97	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament may, in common, in common, on taxation. [[File number 162/000931]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u98	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal on Taxation. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u99	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[The lady]] Today we talk about taxation, and let me give you some data. In Spain, 4.5 million people, almost 10% of the population, live in households with less than €535 per month, at the so-called threshold of severe poverty. Meanwhile, the two hundred richest people in our country accumulate a total wealth of almost 270 billion euros, equivalent to the total income of those 4.5 million Spaniards over a decade. While one in ten compatriots cannot put food on the plate, only Mr.Amancio Ortega has as much money as six years of the total budget for the Dependency Act. [[Rumors]] I don't know about you, ladies, but that seems obscene to me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u101	And this obscenity is not a meteorological phenomenon or a consequence of false meritocracy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u103	As I said, this obscenity, which the People's Party likes so much, is not the result of false meritocracy. Or is it that someone is going to dare to defend from this rostrum that these 4.5 million Spaniards are trying less than Mr. Amancio Ortega to get their families out of the way? Isn't that right? Everyone knows that this obscenity is nothing but the result sought through a deeply unjust tax system, deliberately designed to protect the privileges of the millionaires. And to prove some more data. In 2019, the last year without the macroeconomic distortions of the pandemic, public investment in Spain was 4.5 points lower on GDP than in the EU average, i.e. around €55 billion that stopped investing in health, education, pensions or infrastructure. And why do we invest less? Very simple, because we enter less, almost seven points less state revenue on GDP than the European average; a huge gap of more than €80 billion per year more than all extraordinary European funds. But what is the reason for this gap? Who's stopping paying what he owes? Again, the data is crystal clear. Since 2007, since the financial crisis, the highest taxes have been paid by working people and families: the IRPF is 39% higher and the VAT is 30% higher. In the meantime, corporate tax collection has fallen by more than 40 %. Is this because companies are earning less? Your honors will ask themselves. No, no, In fact, companies now have significantly more benefits than they had in 2007. And all companies contribute equally to this serious loss of state revenue? Neither. The company tax is full of holes to erode tax bases, but those holes are specially designed so that only large companies can use them. Demonstration of other data: the average effective rate, i.e. those who actually pay corporate tax, large companies in 2019 was 5,1 %. Meanwhile, SMEs paid an average of 12.2%, more than double that of large companies, something not only unfair and shameful, but also openly contrary to Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, which says that the tax system must be progressive. By the way, the average effective rate paid by Spanish families between IRPF and VAT is 15.2 %, three times the rate paid by large corporations. Does anyone think this makes any sense? To my parliamentary group, of course not. That is why we are presenting today this initiative to help solve this very serious problem of fiscal insufficiency and injustice that Spain has. We believe that the Government must courageously address comprehensive fiscal reform that ensures the sustainability of our welfare state, reducing taxes to SMEs and workers and increasing them to large fortunes and corporations. Among many other measures, we propose a minimum effective rate of 15% in corporate income tax. At the same time, we propose to reduce VAT on female hygiene products, hairdressers or veterinary products. P We are proposing an extraordinary tax on big electrics to lower the bill of light, or a tax on big fortunes, which would reach 3.5% for fortunes of more than 100 million euros. To scale this last rate, let us think, for example, that Mr Amancio Ortega has a fortune of 67 billion euros, according to Forbes,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u105	... and paying 3.5% a year, that is, about 2300 million a year, an amount that is certainly small for him, would be contributing to 80 % of the minimum living income budget, which covers hundreds of thousands of vulnerable families in Spain. Many people say that Mr.Amancio Ortega is a patriot, so I think he will welcome this opportunity to help his country with good eyes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u106	Mr. Echenique, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u107	I'm done, President. Dear members of the PSOE, we know that this issue involves confronting very powerful people, but it is vital for the humblest people in our country. The reactionaries are not stopped by agreements of great coalition, but by taking steps like this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u108	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position at this time, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u109	Thank you, President. We have tabled an amendment simply to ensure that the tax on big fortunes would remain a resource for the autonomous communities, which, after all, also assume more social investment in education, health or dependence. It is true that the Madrid community has misused this transfer by making a 100 per cent subsidy and leaving nothing of this property tax, but it is also true that a Spanish government in 2008, specifically of the PSOE, eliminated this property tax, and therefore that it is centralized does not assure it a better future, but the other way around. Elite athletes, youtubers and other superrichs have given the wrong example of escape and justified it by saying that it is paid too much, but it is not true. One example of the years we have had a neoliberal reaction is that in the United States, for example, often referred to as low taxes, from the 1940s until Reagan came to power the average marginal rate was 81%, which means that from a certain point of view 81% of this income had to be paid. However, today in the Spanish state the maximum tranche is 45% for people who earn more than 60,000 euros per year. We understand that limiting wealth, not just progressive taxation for social policies, but the mere fact of limiting wealth, of limiting superriches is a fact of democratic health. We cannot aspire to a society that is free and equal when there are people like the president of Iberdrola, whom we quote the other day, who earns 500 times the average wage in the Spanish state. That is neither equality nor freedom nor democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u110	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u111	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the non-tax bill tabled by the United Nations Parliamentary Group, we would like to make a few comments. First of all, we appreciate your proposal to combat tax havens. We have previously put forward proposals to combat tax fraud, and really to achieve a modern and efficient state we need a fair tax system that will put an end to tax havens and frauds. Secondly, I would like to recall some tax measures that might have been incorporated. In particular, the need to apply differentiated taxation as a tool to combat development difficulties. It is not a novelty, taxation has been used since the Middle Ages to facilitate the settlement of the population, and given the situation of territorial crisis suffered by many Spanish regions and provinces, it must be a priority consideration. The first urgent step must be taken by the Government by developing additional provision 123 of the budgets for the application of State aid, which the European Commission has authorised for the operation of enterprises in low population density areas, so as to encourage the conservation and creation of economic activity and the employment of unpopulated territories. We look forward to your support for that goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I obviously do not share the proposal made by Podemos and which Mr Echenique has explained, but I recognise that it is a document that logically gives rise to debate and, in that sense, the question is exactly what you will vote for at the end of the process, because you are a government and that is the key. Of everything they've presented, of everything they've said, then, what's it going to take? What are you going to vote for? Because obviously the others can have the opinion, but who is in the government, who is going to bring a closed proposal from the government is you, and there you will have to see everything you say what really appears in that document, what you renounce, if you are willing to give up something. That's what you need to know. You will understand that I also draw attention to the fact that you want centrality for some things. It seems here that the autonomous community according to which it governs has the right to legislate on tax matters, but if it does not like the government of the community, then no, then it is the government of Spain that decides. Obviously, I believe that when competition is given to the communities, we must trust that the citizens will have voted for what they have voted for and, in that sense, those communities apply economic policy, the policy of lowering or raising taxes, as you want, which they see most appropriate. Finally, I want to say that I don't know anyone who's been bought the vote to vote what you think. I know the person who got the vote to vote what he doesn't think. [[Applauds]] But to vote what you think I don't know anyone who got the vote, that I've never seen before. And if anyone thinks that with my vote I'm going to whiten whoever whitens Bildu, we've come this far! Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u114	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Quiet, please. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the EH Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u115	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. It says the initiative that we are discussing today, the non-law proposal, which is now the time to address a tax reform, and it is right. I believe that the most relevant thing would be to deal with tax reform with a proposal for a law and not with a no-law, for that of a binding character, and it would also be good if it came from the government and not just from one of the parties that make up it, because it is true that it may be a surprise what the other party of the government, the Socialist Party, is voting for, but no less a surprise than what the gentlemen of UPN can still vote for, or I do not know if they are of UPN, because in the end their explanations here have sounded a bit like a non-small excuse, a manifest accusation. In any case, and by focusing on the subject, I would say that it is true that it is time to address this issue and to address it with seriousness and with guarantees, after all more than a hundred years ago fifty years ago a German philosopher said that there must be something rotten in the very heart of a social system that increases its wealth without diminishing its misery. And this is not a phrase that does not have validity or relevance in the Spanish state, I would say that not even in any capitalist system of the old Europe. We see how billionaires continue to increase their fortunes as the pockets of poverty increase in the rich states themselves of that old Europe. The Spanish State, in order not to go further, has 21% of its citizens living in poverty or at risk of poverty. For those who are not able to translate this percentage I will tell you that they are like 9,829,000 people; for those who are not yet able to measure this I will tell you that in the Spanish state there are, whether volunteers or not, 47,431,256 citizens. In the same State where there are more than 2 million children suffering from child poverty, it seems clear that not all are born with the same opportunities or are born equal. And to avoid that, to move forward on what is said a lot in this House, which is to move forward in an egalitarian state, perhaps what should be done is to collect more and redistribute better. How? With progressive taxation and equitable distribution. Also quoting the old German philosopher one hundred and fifty years ago: each according to his needs and each according to his possibilities. And as I know that there are those who can anger this appointment, because even stick to Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, which in a much more subtle, much lighter way, we could say, comes to say something similar. In short, it is about moving forward in fiscal justice so as not to depend on a philanthropy that smells too much of marketing or charity campaigns that are nothing but a business, and what that means is to really do social justice, that banks or entities repay what they borrow, that entities that were absorbed by others that still exist today and absorbed their turnover and their market niches also assume their debt and return it to citizens. Above all and fundamentally, it is important that we address the tax on big fortunes. I would almost say that it is improbable, because today they benefit and have exemptions and bonuses that no worker in the current Spanish state can even imagine. And we do not need to do an exercise of collective imagination, it is that the tax on the great fortunes already existed in some territory of what you call the Spanish State, is called Gipuzkoa. Gipuzkoa already had a tax on big fortunes. It gained quite a bit, improved the collection of the territory. I could say that almost a lot of people liked it, but it's true that not everyone liked it. There was one person who at least didn't like it and that's why he left, his name was Rafael Nadal. But maybe it's that he didn't like paying taxes or that he thinks that for his patriotism Gipuzkoa wasn't too Spanish. In addition, I think it is necessary to move forward in social justice and fiscal justice because there are indicators, such as those that have been pointed out and some more that I will point out now, which tell us that the situation is unsustainable, because Tax Justice Network points out that there are 6350 million euros that are lost per year, 1850 million euros through the big fortunes and 4500 euros through the multinationals in taxes that they do not pay; I do not say because they circumvent, I do not say because they otherwise use fiscal engineering, but they do not directly pay. For you to understand me too, that is something like 2.5 of the total tax revenue or, for you to understand me even better, that is equivalent to 136 euros per inhabitant of this state, which I say will also be those of the early Spain. And today we will see the forces of shock of capitalism, that is to say, the far right, how they stand against initiatives of fiscal redistribution because, in the end, this soliviantizes their true masters, who are only the economic elites. But, in any case, Gestha also says: EUR 59 billion stops raising the Spanish State because it does not apply the tax rate criteria applied by the countries of the European Union with which we say we want to compare and compare. We will support the non-law proposal because, in short - and I finish already - we aspire to obtain in Euskal Herria - and we would like it to be given anywhere - something that the old German philosopher with whom I started this intervention already said then: that the public power cease to be a sort of board of directors that governs the interests and privileges of the elites.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u116	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position on this occasion, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u117	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG defends a different fiscal policy, really progressive, just and redistributive, and that is why it is necessary, as you say, a 180-degree turn to pay more who has more, to pay more the rich. You come here today with a proposal to that effect and we absolutely agree, but I would like to raise two issues. First of all, you say that this is the time to do so, and from our point of view you are late after two years of government, although, of course, in this matter it is worth more late than ever. But you would have to explain why you voted against BNG's proposals which you now incorporate, as in the 2021 budgets, the amendment of the property tax, the reduction of VAT on basic products or hairdressing or the solution to the tax discrimination against returning emigrants. Secondly, you are the Government and yet you bring us a proposal without the binding force of a bill. We fear that it will remain in propaganda, especially after seeing that there is a great and disappointing distance between what they promise and what they finally do, as has just happened with labour reform. Let us therefore hope that tax policy will not be added to this and that as soon as possible we will have a government bill with the same content. Let's vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u118	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u119	Thank you very much, President. One hundred years after the birth of Joan Fuster, who had an aphorism: 'You do not have convictions that are decisively indispensable to you'. Don't get hot, it's Latin. I have an essential conviction, Article 31 of the Constitution: 'Everyone will contribute to the sustainability of public expenditure according to their economic capacity through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness'. We have been in the legislature for almost three years, two more than the previous one, and that tax reform has not yet been made. The Spanish tax system is not fair. Everyone doesn't tax the same, there are some who tax more than others, and some don't want this to change. Do you know who will vote against this proposal today? Those who defend that nothing changes: the right, of course; well, and perhaps here there is also some vote against. We will vote in favour and we have made two proposals. The Valencians say with money torrons and effectively. We're almost in line with tax administration personnel. We therefore need to approach that European ratio once and for all in order to have more staff able to work against tax fraud and the submerged economy and then to have a superior body of finance technicians so that more people can investigate the different dossiers that are being seen to the end. We will therefore vote in favour and thank Mr Guijarro for his willingness to deal with the amendments by Compromís and More Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u120	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u121	Thank you, President. They make us proposals about the Spanish model, about its model. It is not ours, ours is that of full fiscal sovereignty. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] But with regard to its model, Spanish, there are two usual elements in the fiscal relationship between Catalonia and Spain: a first element is the disregard for any territorial inequality and a second element is the disregard for the sovereignty of Catalan institutions. I have the ten points here, and in the 1, the 4, the 7 and the 9 we could be absolutely in favour. In the 2nd the incorporation of new sections of the IRPF de facto limits the normative competences of the Autonomous Communities of Catalonia. Paragraph 8 also reminds me that the Government of Catalonia approved the reduction of the IRPF for lower incomes and its Government took it to the Constitutional Court, which brought down this initiative of the Government of Catalonia. We could comment on all the points, but this goes a little further than a Podemos fiscal proposal and we are not going to enter into the war that you have with your government partner. Your model is not our model. It seems to us that there is no rigour in this proposal, nor does it respect the powers of the Catalan institutions. With regard to the political and fiscal conflict between Catalonia and Spain, you, the people of Podemos and En Comú Podem, have done what many of us hoped you would do, that is, nothing. But failure does not come for you. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u122	Mrs. Nogueras, can you please continue in Spanish?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u123	[[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u124	Mrs. Nogueras...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u125	[[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u127	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Mr Echenique, we are not going to enter into party battles, which I believe is what is happening today, a party battle to see who is leading a fiscal reform. Do you really believe that it is more important who what for what, why and how of a tax reform? We are presented with a proposal as a party, as if you were in the opposition, and that is that you are in the government, quite a lot of people have already told you here. Moreover, they are bringing us a proposal that is not binding at all. I don't know if it's some kind of proposal to pressure your government partner to take up his or her postulates or some kind of counterproposal, because it seems or you know or you feel that what your government partner is going to propose to you is not what you want and you don't even expect that report from the tax experts. And if that report was part of that methodology that you had agreed between the two groups to address that tax reform, it is also not understood to take those conclusions into account. Of course, it doesn't make sense to order a report and then disagree with it, or maybe they already know it and don't like it. We understand that each party can have its political positions, also in tax and fiscal matters. In fact, citizens also know them, because we all present an electoral programme, but we understand that if they are part of a government, which also has a common agreement, it is logical that they bring here a consensus proposal, unique to the entire executive to debate, and it seems that we are beginning to attend a marketing campaign, an internal battle about tax reform, to perhaps see who is more progressive. I do not think that public roces are conducive to an environment for fiscal reform and, as you have said, a reform that is so necessary because there is a lot of precariousness. And I also don't think it's even a good marketing strategy for you, because if you can't convince your partner to incorporate these measures or incorporate some of the measures, what are you going to tell us later, what are you going to sell, what have you not been able to convince of your proposal?, because this would mean that you don't get what is promised. It seems a little dangerous. Furthermore, we also do not understand this position when in the Government, on the one hand, the Minister of Finance has rejected her proposal as somewhat inappropriate, but, on the other hand, the second vice-president says that she will respect the work of the committee of experts and that the pace will mark it in the Finance. Therefore, if that report does not contain those proposals or only contains some of those proposals that they bring as a party, what will prevail? The position of the party, that of the vice-president second, that of the coalition in bringing us a proposal as a government? I don't know if your strategy is to try to force the PSOE to withdraw its measures and to get the best out of that majority or other parties that supported or supported the investiture bloc to show their partner the bargaining force they have here today. Of course, as I said, we are not going to discuss these proposals. Let us hope that they will bring as a Government a single and consensual proposal to address that tax reform. And ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, I have to tell you, today we have received a series of amendments tabled which I do not know whether they have been confused with the party and the autonomous community to which they represent - and I really do say this - because I am really surprised that they are putting forward a series of amendments to tell the common system Autonomous Communities what their tax reform has to be, how they have to deal with their rules, for example, on corporation tax and tax benefits, so that, in the next row, they can establish a supposed foral safeguard for outal systems, which is not even a foral safeguard. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] You know why? Because they limit our powers, because they say that the autonomous communities of foral regime will be able to establish their own fiscal changes, but taking as a reference the minimums at state level. What does that mean, that we have to rule by state minimums? Well, that's a way you have to defend self-government! Is that your self-government defense? Of course, the limits will be established by that regulation, by our own laws, which will be debated in our parliaments, no more or less. Of course, we do not believe that this is the self-government that has to be defended. And really, between independence, autonomy and left, where are you left today? I think they have made it quite clear with their amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today we are again debating a statement of intentions by Podemos to which we are already accustomed, probably because of the idleness of some of his ministers in Moncloa, who are always more concerned about taking out the banner and not working, despite being in the most elephantic government in history. It happens, gentlemen of Podemos, in case you haven't heard, that you are in the government. Yes, you are part of the Government and today you bring an initiative to mandate the Government, as if you had just landed and had nothing to do with your own Government. But it is also that this initiative is not even a declaration of good intentions, but of the always intentions of Podemos, regarding touching the pocket of the Spaniards, who always go in the same direction: to eschew them, to continue suffocating the workers, the self-employed and the families. Surely, this is explained by why you are more busy in your personalist battles with the Socialist Party than in solving real problems. I would ask you to stop using the House and the time of the Members of this House and to use this time in the general interest of the Spaniards and not in the interests that you have in front of the other party of government. Having said that, as always, in Citizens we have no reservations about studying all the initiatives that come to this House, and I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is tremendously tired to read parliamentary initiatives that seem rather like an electoral programme full of slogans. In this non-law proposal, we can state that a 180-degree reform of the tax system is required. Has this been asked to Minister Montero, to that of her Government, to the Minister of Finance? I know that to you certainties, legal certainty or stability must seem absolutely Martian - or fascist directly - things, but we are talking about the taxes that all Spaniards pay. But beyond that, the truth is that this initiative is full of vagueness and indefinitiveness. For example, they talk about reshaping the different tax benefits, such as exemptions and reductions in the IRPF, without specifying or explaining what they want, what tax benefits in particular, what reductions, what income that are now considered exempt, would become taxable. Would they again threaten to withdraw aid to families who choose the joint declaration, as the Government has already pointed out on some occasion, for example? It happens to you that we already know you; your only recipe - and this initiative proves it - is to raise taxes, criminalize wealth and progress and to institute reforms that have not really kept quiet. They want to raise the IRPF to the highest rents; now, the high rents are 120 000 euros, but when Mrs Díaz needs it in her election campaign it will be 60 000, 50 000 or whatever you set up, because you know who the rich are. They demand more taxes from large estates, who are accused of widespread tax evasion. You're saying you're aware of tax offences and you don't bring him to justice? Do you think we're idiots? Sub-propaganda always above the good name of the Spaniards. But why not then bring a bill to fight tax fraud as we have done in Citizens? That's no longer better than spinning slogans, because all you want to do is make propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you love the mantra of Spain's fiscal pressure, which is always the lowest in the European Union average and which is why we collect less. Look, already in 2021 Spain was the country of the European Union where the fiscal pressure for the pandemic increased the most, but that is not to say that the rates that we Spanish pay for the taxes are lower; we are above the average of the European Union and the OECD in IRPF. On the other hand, they talk about the property tax, which is a tax that has long disappeared from the tax systems of the main European countries, because of its negative effects on savings, its low collection contribution and the excessive overexposure and double taxation of certain savings goods. I warn you, with this propaganda you won't be able to. And do you know who they forget? They forget the middle class, the middle class that cannot benefit from reductions in the bill, the middle class that cannot benefit from reductions or bonuses that others do. In Citizens we will not forget those Spaniards you punish, autonomous, middle class families and those who threaten, moreover, with tax increases now that inflation for them is one more burden. Gentlemen of Podemos, I don't know what to ask you to do before, to show up your ideological obsession with raising taxes or to work a little more on initiatives. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u131	Thank you, President. The melon of labour reform is closed and the melon of tax reform is opened. In a few days, the expert group will present its report and finally the Government will no longer have excuses to face a crucial debate for the future of public finances and the welfare state. The Spanish state has been dragging a serious problem for years, that of the chronic underfunding of the welfare state based on an unjust and regressive tax system. How did we get here? For by supporting year after year, legislation after legislature, both blue and red, a tax system that has systematically benefited a few privileged. It is therefore essential to have a fairer tax system that guarantees progressiveness, so that it pays more who has more, a reform that does not entail a tax increase on the middle and working classes, but focuses on ending the existing privileges for the benefit of the great fortunes, Bernabéu stage companies and financial incomes. Much work has been done in this direction in Catalonia. Applying a tax on empty housing and nuclear homes and eliminating regressive deductions are just a few of the efforts that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has made; efforts that have served little, since its Constitutional Court, which controls PSOE and PP, has boycotted all this work a few months ago by burying the nuclear tax or the reduction of the IRPF to the lowest incomes. Yaven, they neither do nor let us do it, and they are still surprised that we are increasingly the ones who think that the only solution to achieve social cohesion and economic progress is the constitution of an independent state for Catalonia. [[Applauds]] We can, we share a large part of their diagnoses and proposals; as a demonstration of this, all the initiatives that have been presented, debated and defended throughout this Republican Squerra legislature. What are the main features of our proposals? Point 1. To put an end to the inequity between the treatment of income from work and income from capital. A tax system that guarantees equity should also ensure that equal income is taxed exactly the same amount, and that is not the case at present, perpetuating a regressive and unjust system. That is why we have advocated increasing the taxation of savings income by more than EUR 100,000. Point 2. SMEs and self-employed people cannot continue to pay proportionally more than a large company. Figures from the Tax Agency show how corporate tax collection has decreased from 22% of the total collection in 2007 to only 10% of the total in 2019, and this is due to the reduction in the contribution of large business groups. It is totally unfair, which is why we have advocated a minimum of 15% on the accounting result, a reduction in the nominal rate from 25 to 23 for SMEs and a review of tax benefits. Point 3. The aggressive fiscal policy pursued by the Community of Madrid for decades has led to a loss of revenue of more than EUR 4 billion per year, as has also been demonstrated by the change of domicile of large fortunes. One thing: from 2011 to 2015 a minimum of 6,000 fortunes were transferred to Madrid, the result of its tax reduction policy. For this reason, we are presenting a proposal for a reform of the property tax that will end with the fiscal dumping that Madrid exercises and that will maintain the regulatory capacity of the autonomous communities, such as the creation of a state quota complementary to the autonomous quota. Then everyone is looking for solutions for emptied Spain. If Spain is emptied it is because Madrid is a black resource centrifuge hole. I'm done. If we embark on a profound fiscal reform in the line of having a fair, progressive tax system that eliminates inequalities, we reach out to them to reach agreements. If you want to make superficial and cosmetic changes, so that nothing changes, you know what you have to do: go look for Citizens and pray for another PP deputy to be mistaken in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u132	Thank you, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. The PNL proposed by Unidad Podemos constitutes a new and demagogic attack on the foundations of an economy, the Spanish one, capable of creating wealth, employment and well-being for all. In this, the initiative of the communist formation differs only from the socialist one in the intensity of the fiscal voraciousness that characterizes the partners of this government. They are determined to expropriate the fruits of the effort and talent of Spanish families and companies. It is surprising that a party sitting on the Council of Ministers is proposing on its own a change in the Spanish tax system. This only shows the absolute chaos in which the Government is immersed and its absolute lack of consistency. It can be assumed that the socialist silence in the face of the initiative of its partners is in agreement with it, although for tactical reasons it does not consider it appropriate to support it at the moment. But what is serious is not, as Mrs Calviño has suggested, that the situation does not recommend raising taxes, what is serious is the philosophy underlying the Puemita proposal. They want to annihilate the already damaged incentives of the Spaniards to work, save and invest. They want to turn us into subjects of tax exploitation at the service of the ideological delusions of the left. [[Applauds]] This is due not only to an overwhelming economic ignorance, but also to a rampant demagogy, whose goal is only one: to destroy the market economy and to impoverish the Spanish. The United Nations GNP We can reflect a deep ignorance of a tax system, the Spanish, which, first of all, has one of the highest levels of progressiveness in the OECD; secondly, the marginal rates of the IRPF apply from much lower levels of income than those in all Western economies; thirdly, the Spanish companies bear a tax pressure that is 27.2% higher than the European Union average and 21% higher than the OECD average; and fourthly, the taxation on assets in Spain is 40.8% higher than the European Union average and 38% higher than the OECD average. This is the reality. Here's the data. This is the information on the tax competitiveness index of the Tax Foundation, an organization founded in 1935; therefore, nothing to do with Franco, Mr Echenique. The social communist coalition is turning Spain into a fiscal hell, in a place where work, savings and investment are considered crimes of lesser majesty by the ruling majority, and the PSOE is the enthusiastic travel companion, complicit of the communists on the road to the consolidation of a tax system confiscation, unjust and, why not say so, deeply immoral. [[Applauds]] And not content with this, they want to deepen in that direction, which would worsen the serious problems of the Spanish economy and, especially, of the people who have less. Unido Podemos and its coalition partners are not interested in improving the living conditions of the most disadvantaged sections of Spanish society, of those most in need, and it must be recognized that their GNP is consistent with this strategy. They prefer that the poor be poorer, so that the rich are less rich, so that the Spaniards become hostages of a left that in a magnanimous way will distribute transfers and subsidies to them to those who snatch the fruits of their effort, that is, their resources. In short, chavismo for pure sale. [[Applauds]] The proposal of the tax genocide proposed by the United Nations We can only lead to depressing the rate of savings and investment, to encourage the exit of high-value-added financial and human capital and, therefore, to intensify the slowdown of an economy that has not emerged from the crisis and is increasingly moving away from recovery and increasingly from our European partners. The initiative will not bring any significant change to the better for the Spaniards with greater economic problems, those most in need, because there is no collection capacity, almost zero. His whole policy is based on deception and lies, on confronting some Spaniards with others, on generating resentment, on appealing to the lowest passions of the human being and on an encyclopedic ignorance of the consequences of the measures they propose. The productive sectors of the Spanish economy can no longer withstand suffocating fiscal pressure. Its conception of the tax system is that of a farm, in which the role of citizens and businesses is only one: to be organized to serve their interests and the delusions of politicians. That is why my group will vote against your proposal. When the Spaniards give us their confidence and we reach the government, VOX will propose a tax reform that allows citizens to enjoy the fruits that are earned honestly by their effort and their talent and companies to be competitive to generate wealth and employment, employment and wealth. In the meantime, Mr Echenique, we will fight with all our strength and with all our energy your tax policy on burned land. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u134	Thank you, Mr. González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u135	Thank you, President. We are discussing a PNL of Podemos, which is government, to raise taxes between 7 and 9 points of GDP, that is, between 80,000 and 100 billion euros, when the collection is in historical peaks and we are already suffocated to taxes. To the left it seems that the Spaniards pay few taxes, and that is not true. You're talking about the fiscal pressure is below average. Listen, let's talk about tax effort, which takes into account per capita income, wages; we're in the fourth place that we pay the most from the OECD. They've been lying for two years, saying they're going to raise taxes on the rich. The rich? Spain is the only country that has raised taxes in the midst of the pandemic. In 2021, all: IBA, wealth, income, companies, Google rate, Tobin tax, insurance, pension plans, sugary drinks. And not the rich, but the middle and working classes. The collection for the increase of insurance that we all pay is three times what has been collected from the rich, to the high sections of the IRPF. Is that the progression of the left? For this year, taxes are raised again, unlike what France, Germany, Italy and Portugal do, which lower taxes. You raise the minimum tax of 15% of companies, you raise the taxes, you raise social contributions, you raise the registration tax by 20% and, if this is not enough, you agree with Brussels that you are going to raise taxes on the Spaniards, the toll for using the roads, the diesel, and the suspension of joint taxation, new increases for the self-employed - of course they are going to fry them - and property harmonisation; that is, that you are going to raise assets, inheritances and donations in those communities of the People's Party that have virtually abolished it. And, of course, we wonder: why so many taxes? Among other things, to pay for the entourage of forty-five people accompanying Pedro Sánchez on his trip to Dubai. Shame on you, ladies! [[Applauds]] And now it turns out that Podemos enters the fiscal competition, that is, to see who raises taxes the most, to see who suffocates us the most. You are now talking about raising the tax on electricity to the rich. What fakes they are! They say one thing and they do the opposite. We've been listening to them for years about the big fortune tax, and all they do is crush the middle and working classes. Inflation, which is the invisible tax, is impoverishing citizens; it is the highest inflation in the last thirty years. With a socialist-communist government, it turns out that the cost of the basic products of the shopping basket, that of light, that of gas, that of fuels; increases of heart attack is being triggered. Ladies and gentlemen, you came to raise taxes on the rich and now it turns out that the rich are the only ones who can pay the light, that can fill the car deposit and that they can pay the shopping cart. It's just a shame. [[Applauds]] Is there no more energy poverty? Of course there is. Apply our proposal to lower the price of light by 20%. Is this tax justice? Is this redistribution of wealth? What you do is create new poor people and redistribute poverty. For we are all a little poorer with the loss of purchasing power; of course, all but those who already have villa with pool and guest house or those who pose in the heart magazines as if they were the jet set. Go with the caste of the communists. It's like he's got a double personality. They remind me of Roures, the producer of the good boss. By the way, where were the no-war cartels in the Goyas? What a shame! And lords of Bildu, to speak ill of Rafa Nadal gives his hatred to Spain; of course, they do not even reach the height of the shoe. [[Applauds]] And it is curious, Mr Echenique, that you come here to talk about taxes, precisely when you pay in black and you make a coin. An example of fiscal justice. Look, the big fortune tax is like they were going to repeal labor reform; they have the same credibility. Then they talk about environmental taxation, the polluter pays, and they go to Falcon to the Goya and see the pope. Keep it up, they're disappearing from the map. Look, our tax proposal is to lower taxes, as we did in 2014 to lower incomes. That's why we want to lower the IRPF to low and middle income, suppress capital transfers for the purchase of first home, repeal property tax, estates and donations and lower corporate tax. I'm telling you loud and clear: no to the left-wing tax robbery. You, the far left, wanted to storm the heavens and what you're doing is taking us to hell, to socialist-communist fiscal hell. We can no longer, stop suffocating and laughing at the Spaniards. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Spain. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u137	Thank you, President. Mr. Adanero, may you come and demand that you know what a group will vote for at the end of the process... We're going to admit he hasn't been too well-bred after the show we had last week. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of VOX, do you know what's so expensive to all Spaniards? Pay a salary to your MEP to then insult us by connecting from a bar to work at the parliamentary seat. That is indeed confiscatory and unjust. [[Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair.]] And, Mrs. Carolina Spain, double personality? You're telling us we have a double personality? The People's Party has been the one that has increased taxes most in this country, whether you like it or not. [[applause.-Mrs. Spain makes negative signs from her seat]] And I'm going to tell you one thing, we can look at it from the tax side, but recognize me that we can also look at it from the income point of view. If everything goes up, if everything goes up, the question is why you do not support the interprofessional minimum wage, raise pensions or raise the minimum living income, which helps families to alleviate, precisely, the increases in that rise in the CPI. [[Applauds]] Why don't you support those measures? They have had up to three times in three years to support the interprofessional minimum wage. Double personality, you told me. And, Mr. Echenique, many things unite us. We are joined by Article 31 of the Constitution - also named by Mr Baldoví -. We are joined by a Council of Ministers. It unites us, as we said, to raise the inter-professional minimum wage, establish minimum living income, increase pensions or labour reform. Many things unite us, of which we must be proud, because the Council of Ministers has shown that a crisis can be managed differently. What unites us is the political opportunism of this GNP. [[Applauds]] Because I don't have a fiscal hack or do anything. We have worked in the Committee on Finance and the Council of Ministers has also worked, and now what we are doing is waiting for the experts' report to address that tax reform. Don't confuse yourself as an enemy. We are not the enemy and the Minister of Finance is not the enemy. The enemy, his enemy, is another. Our enemy is another. Our enemy is hate. Gentlemen of the People's Party, congratulations, they have succeeded, they will go into history for having the largest and most varied photocall of animals and farms in election campaign. But also by opening the doors of institutions to the far right. [[Rumors]] If we have that problem today, it is because of its disastrous strategy and the whim of calling an election that was unnecessary. [[Applauds]] Not for the interests of the Leonese Castilian, but for the vanity of their leader. Mrs Cuca Gamarra, her spokesman, when she started this plenary session at three o'clock in the afternoon, appealed to our conscience. Apply: consciousness. You've been whitening the far right for three years. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] VOX has not come here to protect any workers, has come to trample them. VOX has not come here to help the autonomouss lift the blind, he has come to see if it falls on them. VOX has not come here to save companies, because they voted against ERTE and ICOs. Let no one be deceived. Don't bleach them. If they don't break up with them, they're their accomplices. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Man!]] On February 12, 1888 Clara Campoamor was born, a pioneer in the defense of equality, and said that freedom - which they like so much - is learned by exercising it. If we really want to bet on freedom and rights and stop fear, let us not be confused with enemies. The enemy is not sitting on the blue bench, the enemy in our democracy and in this House is in those fifty-two seats. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u138	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has been informed that a compromise is being worked on. We shall therefore give information and proceed to the vote at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u139	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress on the policies of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration in relation to self-employed workers. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u140	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We're here because this government has had a very churning idea called you pay and I collect. Again, as is customary in this government, this is an idea against the Spaniards; today, against the Spaniards who have not been able to get into any building or mangonate because they are autonomous. [[Applauds]] Imagine that you have a shop, a bar, a taxi, that private consumption does not take off, that restrictions continue, that the price of energy and fuel continues to rise and that in the middle of that perfect storm the government increases labor costs. Do you know what would happen then? That the slightest push would mark the difference between surviving or closing, as they have already closed in January 540 autonomous each day. With a country that loses more than 16,000 self-employed workers and in which 110,000 remain unemployed, this government and Minister Escrivá propose that this group pay more to the State. You can be clumsy and clumsy with the self-governing, as this government has been, and then you can be shamed, and this government is about to be. Because you have to have a lot of face to want to squeeze the pockets of the self-employed when two out of three claim not to have recovered from the effects of the pandemic and you have to have a very hard face to raise the contributions to the self-employed just when six out of ten have billing drops above 50%. I do not know how you see it, ladies and gentlemen, but to me, as the son of an autonomous, it does not seem to me to be a very chulian idea. That's right, I really enjoyed seeing some of you and the government hairstyled so well at the Goya gala the other day, but I would have liked to know more about what they were thinking while you were getting hit by the hairdressers. I wonder if any of you dared to tell them that your Government is leaving you without income, without help and without savings and that you do not sleep because you are clearly not going to stop until you leave them also without your business. Did he not tell them any self-employed person who pays a higher fee each time while his income is ever lower? Have you really not talked to anyone who tells them that it's hard for the self-employed to sleep because they know they have to pay back ICO loans and they don't know where they're going to get the money from? I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen of the left, that nobody has told you that the self-employed are drowning in the red tape that you have turned direct aid into. But it's all right, if you haven't been told, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is already telling you. Because we do understand ourselves with the people who only aspire to work honestly, those people who are sick of posture, with those people, lords of the PSOE, who have turned their backs on them this Sunday in Castile and León, another autonomous community in which they have again lost, as they lost in Galicia and Madrid. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] It's another door in the nose, like the one you're soon going to give to you all over Spain. So we understand your frustration, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, because, moreover, it is difficult to rule Spain from Mars. And it seems that you live on another planet; otherwise, it is not explained how you still do not comply with the agreement that on zero income zero quota, a proposal of the People's Party that was approved, or with the agreement of the Senate for the reduction of the VAT of the hairdressers. Nor is it explained the ridiculousness that Minister Escriva has once again made: for the second time he has to withdraw a proposal from what he calls - not so the autonomous - contributions for real income. It is what has to be a loose verse and agree a proposal for the self-employed, but without listening to the self-employed. It is an irresponsibility, a lack of professionalism and an absolute lack of rigour, which only creates more confusion, instability and distrust for the self-employed, and they do not deserve it. It is either you live millions of light years from the self-employed and the workers of this country or it is not explained that the deadline to extend the ERTE and the extraordinary benefit for cessation of activity expires on 28 February, and today it is not yet known what is going to happen. You fly so many times and so high in Falcon that you do not realize what it assumes that in this country you can no longer be saved because you have reduced the deduction in the IRPF from 8000 to 1500 euros for contributions to private pension plans, while, on the other hand, you tell them that you have to think about your future and your pensions. They must be recognized that, in their ecological pursuit, they have managed to convert the income of the self-employed into hybrids: they already devote half of their income to paying quotas and taxes to the State and the other half to rents, materials and supplies. Faced with the abandonment of one of the most important collectives in this country, the People's Party, as always, will continue to bet on the autonomous. Because to bet on them is to bet on creating jobs in this country and hence the proposals that this motion contains. Proposals that, while Minister Escrivá denied a few days ago, he already seems to be accepting some, such as paralysing that unfair and insolidary proposal, those portions of contributions for real income to the self-employed. But we must say that we must return to the heart of the Toledo Pact, to social dialogue, to dialogue with self-government organisations in order to create a just and balanced system for self-government. Measures such as speeding up procedures and ensuring that direct aid really reaches all self-employed workers in this country. To facilitate further moratoriums on the repayment of ICO credits, to comply with agreements such as the reduction of VAT for hairdressers and cosmetic services to 10%, to encourage measures to boost the group of self-employed workers in rural areas, and to encourage the digitisation of self-employed and SMEs in order to recover their activity. To continue to bet on entrepreneurship and self-employment, re-establishing the flat rate for the new self-employed by 50 euros, as well as extending this validity three years, regardless of age. Because keeping the rate is betting on job creation. Because the opposite would be burying many entrepreneurs. You don't have to change what works, and that's worked. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, it must be said that this afternoon the Spaniards will be clear who of us live in this great country called Spain and who live in this very chulular galaxy in which this government lives. This afternoon we have the opportunity to vote in favour of or against the self-employed in our country. I ask you, we ask you to go down to earth, that we are playing more than four million jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which will also fix its position at this time. Firstly, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago I met with autonomous people from La Palma affected by the volcano. They are desperate for the lack of help and the weight of a bureaucracy that stifles them. They've lost their jobs, their home and their heritage. Those who have decided to move forward have to continue paying Social Security, which means that of the €661 they receive, more than 200 go as they enter. They continue to pay taxes, despite what they had been promised. Many of them had to face up to the payment of amounts by the IRPF in December. Those who have decided not to surrender live by Red Cross or Caritas aids or social services. Firstly, they do not even know whether the aid they receive will continue from 28 February. Roads have not been recovered, many of the areas remain isolated, and it is impossible to think that on 28 February the areas are accessible and the roads recover. It is essential that the aid for cessation of activity is extended and exempted from the social security payment while it is being recovered. The aid and benefits for the island's self-employed must be open on a permanent basis, and they should have the option of joining their normal activity as long as they can. Those taxing by modules are also discriminated against against those taxing by direct estimation and do not receive the same amount of aid without being explained why. It cannot be that the way in which taxation is chosen can lead to such important discrimination. We call for equal treatment for all self-employed people. Partly affected self-employed people have absurd limits. They do not receive aid if they exceed EUR 800 per month of income. It seems that self-employed people do not have the right to earn the minimum wage. Carriers, car rental companies and companies that depended on other companies that have disappeared must urgently receive aid to change their business, to invest, and soft loans that guarantee them funds to rebuild their businesses. Many self-employed and self-employed affected are over sixty years old, so we put forward an early retirement plan so that those who cannot cope with this stage have an assured future, while looking for a new home or helping their children to move forward. More than 90% of the companies in La Palma are self-employed and SMEs feel that the government has abandoned them. Sure, they need certainty. That is why we have tabled the amendment for the extension of the cessation benefit, equal treatment between them, early retirements for those who cannot go back and aid for investment and soft loans for those who want to rebuild their businesses. Let them not feel that after the volcano this Government has abandoned them to their fate. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u143	Thank you. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u144	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for one thing, I want to make it very clear what our starting point is. Self-employed people should have the advantages of entrepreneurs and the advantages of workers, since they are both. Most take initiatives and take risks as entrepreneurs and work as employees on behalf of others, i.e. they are employers and employees at the same time and therefore cannot have the disadvantages of both groups; it should be the opposite, have all the advantages. Moreover, they are a fundamental part of society and not only because of their number, there are more than 4 million in Spain, in Cantabria there are more than 43 000, but because their figure also represents many conditions and characteristics very favorable in human beings, such as initiative, freedom, productivity, self-realization, the contribution of wealth to society, etc. But the change proposed by the Government has led to a great rejection among a large part of this group, which, if it was probably the most discontented of all before, is now going to be much more dissatisfied. Nor are we innocent, we know that there is a lot of fraud to fight and, as the Constitution says in its article 31, everyone must contribute to public spending according to their capacity, but also article 41 states that they have the right, like any worker, to social security and to what this entails. In Cantabria, the Regionalist Party has already given its opinion on this matter and has put forward a non-legislative proposal in Parliament two weeks ago. As far as what we have to discuss today is concerned, almost all the points really are consumable, if not necessary. With some nuances, we are in favour. But the most important thing is to reach an agreement as consensual as possible, and I don't think it's that difficult. There is a great casuistic, but a very flexible regulation is needed that can accommodate all kinds of situations. The autonomous will thank us for having the maximum consensus between themselves, between the political parties and between the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u145	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u146	Thank you, President. Let us go forward that in Citizens we will radically oppose any plan by this Government or any other to complicate the lives of self-employed people, workers and businesses. And I say this government or any other government because this applies to this government or to any government that comes in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Act of 2017 is the first to be promoted by the liberals in this Parliament; the Citizens' initiatives are the flat rate of the self-employed; the Citizens' proposal was the special benefit of self-employed persons during the pandemic and, although it hurts to recognize it, is the Citizens' common denominator of self-employment growth in Andalusia, Castile and León or Madrid - Rocío Blanco, Carlota Amigo and Manuel Jiménez -, of tax cuts, of direct aid and of reduction of bureaucratic obstacles after forty years in which the PP and PSOE, bipartisanism, have not moved a finger by the self-employed. For all the above, when we say that Citizens is the party of the autonomous we say it with the force of the facts. No one will be surprised, therefore, that the Spanish liberals are scandalized by the reform of the special regime of self-employed workers proposed by the Government, by the proposal of a few weeks ago and by the proposal that it has brought to the self-employed today; a Government, this one, which, in the face of any problem or difficulty, applies its magic recipe of raising taxes and increasing the quota of self-employed people. We have always argued, always, that the contributions of self-employed workers must depend on their real income, and in this line go the recommendations number 4 and number 5 of the Toledo Pact. However, this reform, which Minister Escrivá says he wants the same thing, does the opposite, and does the opposite because there is no criterion of proportionality or justice in forcing an autonomous person, for example, with income below the minimum interprofessional wage to pay almost 300 euros of contribution. This reform aimed at by Minister Escrivá does not take sufficient account of assumptions such as those of those who are self-employed only as secondary economic activity, thus putting obstacles to entrepreneurship. Of course, the increase in quotas should be accompanied by assimilation into social security protection, to which workers are entitled. It would be logical to say that with equal obligations, the same rights. Are the autonomous going to have them with the reform proposed by Mr Escriva? We will support this motion, Mr Movellán, but I would like to stress that in this populary of things that you are asking for on your initiative, you focus, you stress, the essential core of the text of your initiative, so to speak, is basically to demand that the reform of the autonomous regime be the result of the social dialogue and the agreement of the organizations involved, and I ask you, Mr Movellán, if the People's Party, now does, in this matter the social dialogue and the agreement of the social partners because then, two weeks ago, when you voted against the labour reform that maintained the best of the reform of Fatima Báñez, and that had been agreed with the trade unions and employers, you did not care about the agreement of the social actors. [[Applauds]] I ask you why perhaps it will turn out that the only coherent one on the popular bench is Mr. Casero. What will they do if ATA, the Association of Self-Employed Workers, finally agrees to a RETA reform with the government? Will they support it then or will they have to change their argument to not be all the time in their not all? They are now calling for the digitisation of autonomous SMEs, but we have already registered an initiative in December. They are also now calling for a further moratorium on the repayment of ICO credits, and we have already done so in January, in addition to calling for the approval of a direct aid fund for our productive fabric. They are late, as they are used to, but we gladly give them our proposals in the form of an amendment for a fair contribution for real income, to speed up the process of direct aid, to increase the protection of social security to the self-employed, to increase the period of lack of payment of ICO credits and to boost digitisation, because the liberals are not going to fight for the authorship of the measures when they are for the good of the self-employed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u147	Thank you. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, welcome on. It is time to talk about the self-employed again, but it would be even better if we were to talk seriously. Mr Mazón said - I liked the expression - that we self-employed people must be treated with the best possible treatment as entrepreneurs and with the best possible treatment as workers, because it is true, because they are today possibly the most added value they give to an economy in crisis situations, and because in some way they are a differentiating element. But it is also important to contextualize what we are talking about when we talk about the problems affecting the self-employed, where we are going and what scenario we are going to address, because the motion as such speaks of many different things, but it does not intend to make a serious criticism of any of them, and it also places it within a given framework, which is the Toledo Pact, and on that issue I will give you reason. The fundamental criticism to be made by the Government in this area is that the measures affecting, which matter to the self-employed, which have a great deal to do with their social coverage, their contribution system, should have been previously dealt with in the Toledo Pact and have not been dealt with, neither this previous proposal nor that which we have known today, nor many others which have had to do with the self-employed. There I will give you reason, on that one question. From there allow me two things. One, remind them of what the Toledo Pact on Self-Employment says, Recommendation 4: make progress towards the full equalization of rights and obligations between the two regimes, integrate and converge the two regimes of self-employed and dependent workers, achieve the greatest scope of social protection that is comparable to an equally similar contribution, that there are transitional periods for self-employed and that depend on their real income. Recommendation 5 is to improve the special scheme for self-employed workers by linking the amount of contributions to real income. Recommendation 7, the need for the use of new technologies and the obligations of workers, businesses and self-employed persons. Recommendation 10, the protection of the rights of the most disadvantaged groups, including self-employed, false self-employed, the Trades. Obviously the 19 bis refers to them, and there are some other references that also have much to do with the scope of protection of the self-employed. But which of them is this motion addressed to? It is only intended to make a criticism, in my view, intrusive, let me say so, because many of the arguments of the motion do not seek either to defend those global interests of the self-employed or to bring their proposals closer to the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. I have the impression - they have said so in the proposal not for the previous law - that what is done when you come to this stand many times is simply to raise views on a party of criticisms that have no substance or content, and that it is only a matter of making an easy criticism that does not reach the real problems of specific collectives, in this case the autonomous ones. Let me tell you that many of the proposals would be subject to consideration if they were within a legislative package, within a more reasoned proposal, but in such a generic criticism as is currently being made... Mrs Muñoz also said - I say because I saw her come out - that Citizens had worked a lot and well. I have to admit, your party partner, Mr. Del Campo, did a good job in the previous legislature. But that is precisely why criticism cannot be as easy as we have seen at the moment. It is necessary to pay attention to content, not to such easy criticisms, such disqualifications, except that in which we have agreed all those who criticise the Government's action in this area, which is that of not having come to the Toledo Pact, which is where they really would have to be, not to decide, but to deal with and postulate these matters. We will vote no, gentlemen of the PP, because we believe that this kind of criticism leads nowhere. We believe that they should improve much even in their proposals, but not yet. However, we are also willing to work with you, with you or with anyone who wants to move forward on the road, first, to protecting the interests of the self-employed; secondly, to achieving an area of equal social coverage for the self-employed; and thirdly, to equalising the two systems between self-employed and dependent workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that I continue to be amazed at that capacity for mutation, for metamorphosis of the regime's parties when they are in the Government and when they are in the opposition. A party that is champion of austerity, of social cuts, seems concerned, now worried about tax justice with the self-employed. In any case, for the Galego Nationalist Block the proposal that Minister Escrivá advanced in January is unacceptable, it is profoundly unfair. We understand that there is no way to justify a proposal in which anyone who enters EUR 600 contributes 50 % and who enters EUR 4000 with less than 10 %, even though a table is being proposed which is gradually changing between 23 and 31 %. The question is, why not now? Why not now go to a proposal that is more proportional and therefore fairer? The terrible thing is that today we know that Minister Escrivá modifies his proposal, but not in a progressive sense, but on the contrary, by increasing the contributions of those who enter less and reducing those who enter more. I do not know whether the minister here is seeking the agreement of the CEOE, of ATA and, therefore, also of the CEOE, but, of course, we believe that if the initial proposal was unacceptable, this is much more...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u151	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u152	The corporal. This is much more so because of proportionality and because it is bet on redistributive injustice. The BNG is therefore going to protest against this proposal and in favour of a different model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u153	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u154	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a public recognition of the self-employed, almost 33.5 million self-employed who are part of this country's productive economy and who are a true culture of effort, job creation, success stories and sometimes very hard stories. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to start this speech with an appreciation to all of them, because many times the debates go on the autonomous ones, but they only remain in this, in debates. What is the origin of this controversy? The subject of the change in the contribution system. The easy thing, of course, was to put the amounts and the fat trace what this reality meant, but if instead of going to the controversy and going to the easy, let's go to the rigor, the truth is that the recommendations of the Toledo Pact pointed out that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u155	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. This is the last point and we intend to do so as quickly as possible. So, please, don't form any strings in the Chamber. I understand the interest of some conversations, but please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u156	In the first place, he made this public recognition to the self-employed, who represent stories of success, a culture of effort and sometimes very harsh situations. But also that beyond the controversy and the thick line, if we go to the chapter of rigour, we had that in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact it was aimed at changing the system of assessment of the income of the self-employed and it was pointed out this idea of the real income. Surely, this concept of real income is not the luckiest; it would be much better to talk about net returns, which is measured by the net returns of the self-employed, that is, once their expenses have been discounted. And it seems fair, it seems that this recommendation of the Toledo Pact that we all subscribe to is a fair recommendation to the extent that those who have more net returns, those who enter more, rate more, as with workers and payrolls, while at the same time this can also imply a greater forecast of situations of low, incapacity, future retirement, etc. What do we demand of the Government in relation to this measure? First, let us have the social agreement; it is transcendental and it is necessary that there be social dialogue, but also agreement in the Congress of Deputies; it is not enough only with the social dialogue, we need the concurrence of these two agreements. Secondly, a progressive implementation, with information; a system by stages, equitable, adjustable, adapted to the measure of each one and, above all, the opportunity of the implementation at its right time. Surely, there are still many people who have not recovered from the situation of COVID and therefore it is necessary to find the best time, the best opportunity and the right time for the implementation of this measure. Some of the measures we share are: the 10% reduction in the VAT for hairdressers, measures in COVID times that we put forward in relation to VAT, IRPF or company tax; some proposal that is not yet in the light of the parliamentary procedure, such as the proposal for a law against late payment. They are measures in support of self-employed people and SMEs and I sincerely believe that we share some and that few people can teach us lessons in this area. You pointed out, Mr. Movellán, that you are the son of self-employed people and feel proud. You know, I have once said that I am self-employed and I assure you that both PeCAT and I will ensure at all times the implementation of this just policy, the contribution for net returns, the actual income of self-employed people, so that it is the most favourable for them in line with the support policies that we have so many times done to all self-employed people in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u157	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u158	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today it was up to us to discuss a motion on self-government, that is, a non-legislative initiative, which focuses on an hour of discussion and which, even if it were adopted, would not bring about any real change. [[Rumors]] This is the raw reality so as not to generate false expectations, that the sector is not for so many disappointments. In addition, it is a motion of the People's Party presented in the purest popular, partisan and pernicious style. Real data are mixed with malicious assertions, without foundation, thus renouncing to seek majorities for their approval, because in reality the only thing that matters to them is to attivate the Government, if necessary at the expense, this time, the autonomous, and the autonomous are already more than tired of being a bold weapon. Surely, the little spectacle represented here today by courtesy of the right is the furthest away from the spirit of self-employment, or at least from those self-employed workers for whom we work and struggle, those who really work, because if something defines them and they have all in common, it is that you cannot afford to waste time as you did for years. In the presentation of the motion, the proposing group refers to some well-sounding claims, claims that are just and legitimate and that, in fact, Republican Left has applied, at least, as much as the most. We are talking about facilitating the deduction of expenses arising from professional activity during work or the deduction of restaurant cheques, for example, or guaranteeing the zero fee to any self-employed worker who could not have billed during the worst times of this crisis, as in the case of the La Palma disaster, which has been mentioned. These proposals, among others, have been long fought and, unfortunately, have been lost. We have not found the honest and credible support and involvement of the Government, and for this reason we remind you again today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that is not a law today because of your faulty omission. They're on time, do it from tomorrow, and if that were their disposition, they'll continue to count on us. However, it is cynical that these kinds of demands should be brought to the fore by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do you think there were no self-employed people without billing in 2010? What did you do when you were in the government so that you didn't have to contribute? Ladies and gentlemen of the Conservative bench, do you consider that in 2018 there were no self-employed women suffering from comparative aggravations as they were unable to deduct their own expenses? What did you do about it? I humbly believe that they are not in the best position to take the colors out of anyone as far as the management of self-employment is concerned. Nevertheless, I would like to end with a small comment on the central issue of this motion: the rejection of the idea of progressive contributions. A priori it is something very simple and very basic that society already has internalized in terms of tax matters: those who earn more pay more and those who earn less pay less. It seems like a very difficult maximum to contradict. However, the PP considers - I quote textually from its motion - that it encourages the submerged and disincentive economy to enterprising activity. Look, coming from the PP, this sounds like a non-small excuse. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no specific knowledge of what the Ministry of Social Security is going to propose with regard to the scheme for the contribution of self-employed workers, and I can tell you that we will be critical, that we will be demanding and that we will work to ensure that it is assessed on the basis of the actual benefits, that is, what is left to you when you pay supplies, suppliers and any expenditure of your own, but the case is that we cannot criticise what is still uncertain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u159	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u160	Good afternoon. The autonomous, that active population to which the PP only addresses on two occasions: when they are campaigning and when they want to refrigerate partyist totally indecorous. The spokesman told her that he was the son of autonomous people - an autonomous person who was autonomous while you were ruling and who found nothing as a response during the previous crisis. So let's start by putting the context, which you paint a landscape that besides everything is false. In May 2021 the ceiling of 3.3 million self-employed workers was broken, and the figure has since been consolidated above that threshold. In a context of crisis, self-employment has endured, grown and there are 54,338 self-reliant and self-reliant more than before the pandemic. Of course, the pandemic and the crisis that has generated it has been hard and complicated, but although self-employment and employment in general has managed to resist the blow, and even to grow, it has been because of the policy of maintaining incomes of the so-called social shield, with the ERTE and the extraordinary benefits of self-employment that the People's Party did not always support in Congress. I tell you again from this rostrum, if the PP vote had depended on the situation of the collective of self-employed and self-employed would have been much more precarious, much more unprotected and we would have had massive loss of active workers. Clear this, so that no one can get away from who defends who and who does not, let's go to the motion. It can be seen that you have done an in-depth job because you refer to the RETA, the special scheme of self-employed or self-employed workers, as a new surprise. Since when? From the conclusions of the Economic and Social Reconstruction Commission of 2020 or from the unanimous commitments of the Toledo Pact? No, wait, even better, since the 2019 government agreement. What a novelty. And I tell you, steps have been taken in recent years by the Government to generate certain improvements such as the extension of the flat rate period for new self-employed people, the extension for groups in particularly vulnerable situations taking into account rural areas, taking into account youth, functional diversity and the employability of victims of machista violence. Things have been done and for these improvements we see that they have to be accompanied by better collection, because the level of underfinancing is worrying and following the negative evolution of the situation of the RETA it is expected that in 2022 the collection of contributions will represent 51.67% of the expenditure on benefits of the RETA. In fact, what we say from the United Nations We can say is that a proportional contribution system must be designed to ensure the social protection of the most vulnerable people and, in parallel, to alleviate the social cost for those sections of contributions associated with lower income levels, which are at a threshold below or slightly higher than the level of income that marks the interprofessional minimum wage. In short, it is necessary to protect the most vulnerable self-employed and, at the same time, to apply the maximum that the most income earners pay more proportionally. That is why I want to say something very clearly important to my group because this morning, when I was preparing the speech - and I feel that I am going in such a tight time - I saw a news that I sincerely hope it will be a lie. I would like to think that the proposal published today is a lie because, if it is true, my parliamentary group is absolutely against it, and it is against it because in no way can we accept or understand that the quota should be lowered to the higher sections - that is to say, to the autonomous and autonomous who earn more - and, nevertheless, to those who earn less. It's unfair, it's inefficient, it's unsustainable and it's supporting a painful fallacy, which says that tax fraud in this country is one of those who makes a dip in B. No, you see, self-employed and self-employed workers are people who are putting on their side, who are carrying on their small business, their activity, they do it every day, they do it with effort and they are contributing a lot more than the great fortunes to contribute in this country. In Unity We can go the other way. In the time I have left, I make two quick notes. On the one hand, something mentioned in the motion. In Unity We can defend, in the necessary tax reform, that the VAT be lowered from the hairdressers, because it is unfair both for the work activity and for those who perform it and for the citizens as a whole. You will see, defending the self-employed is not done with posture and does not work if it is not making it easier for those who have the most difficulties to carry out their activities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u161	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u162	Come on, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The motion that we are debating today as a result of urgent questioning must cause us to reflect on the figure of the self-employed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what is it to be an autonomous? A self-employed person today is a hero, a tireless worker, without hours, without holidays, who rarely falls ill, who plays it every day, who responds with his personal heritage. And now, the ruin government intends to give the final stock through a reform of the autonomous contribution system. Two weeks ago Minister Escrivá prides himself on the aid that this Government had provided during the current crisis caused by the pandemic; aid, of course, is insufficient. Many of them took months to receive administrative chaos and, today, 110,000 self-employed people are still in a state of cessation. VOX warned at the beginning of the pandemic: Spain must be protected, but it cannot be stopped. Pilar, Antonio, Luis, are some of the autonomous with whom we have spoken during this campaign in Castile and León, and who survive the mismanagement of a government that has crucified and sacrificed thousands of autonomous during this crisis. [[Applauds]] We all agreed on one thing: we don't want any help, we just want them to let us work, they don't put any more restrictions on us, they don't put any more taxes on us. You, ladies and gentlemen, all the members and groups of the parliamentary arch, except VOX, refused to be able to work for thousands of autonomous people. They did so consciously, not only by their vote in favour of the states of alarm declared illegal by the Constitutional Court, but also in their respective kingdoms of taifas closing business and prohibiting working in sectors such as hospitality, catering, night entertainment or gymnastics. [[Applauds]] An example of this is the measures that the People's Party of Castile and León implemented during the second state of illegal alarm, being the hardest and most restrictive, prohibiting thousands of self-employed people from working. That is why, this past day 13, more than 212,000 Castilians and Leonians have placed their trust in VOX becoming the third political force of the community and in the hope of thousands of autonomous people. [[Applauds]] I have been self-employed almost all my professional life and I know perfectly well what it is to pay the self-employed quota every month, regardless of the income you have. And the government, with this reform, intends to change the system of contributions of self-employed people by making them pay on the basis of net returns. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is net performance and who will provide it? If the net return is the result of which is the minus-income minus-expenditure, what expenses will be deductible? Is it necessary to apply the rules of the IRPF and the rules of corporation tax as regards the calculation of net return? Because the contribution for real income is not the net return, because that means leaving the contribution according to the deduction capacity of the self-employed. Today, a lot of self-employed people have no activity-related expenses. If, finally, the net return is that declared in the self-employed's IRPF, what would happen to a possible review by the self-employed's expenditure management? Does Social Security penalize the self-employed in the event that the net return calculated by the Administration is higher? If you appeal to the self-employed and then the courts give you the reason, would Social Security return the wrong charges and sanctions? This is going to turn into real chaos. These questions must be resolved in order to guarantee the self-employed the necessary legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, they want the contribution of 1.8 million self-employed people to rise by 40% over the next two years and yet the decrease to 1.4 million self-employed people is only 10%. And they do so by proclaiming themselves the most progressive government of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have no shame. For the rest, we must now add the rise in energy prices, the quotas to be returned by a million self-employed people from April to May of ICO credits and the rise in labour costs. In other words, being an autonomous in Spain will become a real feat. These measures are not the result of chance, they have a clear desire to collect and a final objective: the destruction of the Spanish business fabric and the disappearance of the autonomous, directly violating article 38 of the Spanish Constitution on freedom of enterprise. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the rest of the acolytes, it will be impossible to start a business in Spain as long as you continue to rule. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u163	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vilches Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if this motion fell into the hands of some autonomous, it is most likely that it will sing to him that of: 'Where were you then when you so much need you? No one better than anyone...'. [[Applauds]] But you rescued the bank, you raised the tax to the hairdressers and thirty more taxes, the tax amnesty, the cuts in the public domain and the mantra of the save who can and help your belts. Do you remember? And what has this government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, done with the autonomous? Benefit compatible with the activity, benefit for those obliged to suspend for low income for seasonal workers, moratorium on social contributions, postponement of the rent payment, flexibility in contract of supplies and social bonus, reduction of administrative burdens, ICO guarantee line, no interest of delay in postponements, creation of the solvency support fund, mobilization of EUR 11 billion in direct aid, 700 000 for the self-employed. [[Applauds]] And the PP says the self-employed don't have any help. False, because one and a half million self-employed people have benefited, almost half of the self-employed in this country, and EUR 10.5 billion have been mobilized. Mr. Movellan, you say 540 self-employed people shut down a day. False. But where do those figures come from? With the January data there are 200 who have the activity suspended. In this crisis they have not lost their autonomy, they have won 57 000. And the People's Party, where were they then when the self-employed needed them so much between December 2011 and December 2013 when we lost 105,000 self-employed workers? [[The Lady]] Now with the Government's proposal that self-employed people like the rest of the workers should contribute according to their performance, debated at the social dialogue table, born of the agreements of the Toledo Pact, which responds to the request of self-employed people themselves, where is the People's Party? Are you seriously asking us to respect social dialogue? You too, Brutus, my son? [[Applauds]] But why do they want it, to set up circuses like that of labor reform? The Socialist Party, this government, will not stand up to the structural unprotection of the self-employed, whose average retirement is 40% lower than the workers of the general scheme, when 84% contributes to the minimum base, when 60% has pensions less than 800 euros a month and when today pays the same thing to Juan Carlos, the owner of the pub of my people, than the owner of a business in the middle of Castellana. This reform therefore involves a flexible, equitable and fair system, with very low contributions when the activity begins, with a flat rate of 70 euros two years, with contributions adapted to the income to reduce the contributions when the benefits fall, with access to income protection, retirement pension, cessation of activity, temporary disability, birth per child. Thus, self-employed people have a system similar to that of wage earners with contributions proportional to their performance. In fact, two out of every three self-employed persons will be reduced by contributions compared to the current system, with savings of €1,300 per year. Women in particular benefit from lower contributions, with 57% of them going down. But in addition, young people, 70% under the age of 26, will have lower contributions. And they do not lie, social contribution is not a tax, it is the contribution that allows access to better pensions and benefits. [[Applauds]] They don't lie. They do not lie or use the collective to torpedo the negotiations. He's working on a deal. I know it's hard for you because you don't understand this from the agreements, but for this government it's part of your DNA. They don't lie. They bring us a motion because we are close to reaching an agreement with the autonomous and their associations, and of course, they lie and get nervous because they have very close the memory of labor reform and no longer have excuses or bad arts. But if you continue to feed your seagull of lies, bubbles and debris you will remain in opposition for a long time like a donkey tied to the door of a dance. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Vilches. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Movellán, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u166	We will present a compromise amendment with Mrs Oramas and the Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u167	All right. Thank you very much, you will be voting on those terms. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Take your seats, please. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which is an organic way of improving the regime for the protection of victims of crime. The vote will begin. [[Pausa.-A honourable Member: Red, Casero!-Laughter.- Rumours]] Quiet, please. The voting was as follows: 338 plus 8 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 152 plus 2 telematics votes, 154; against, 184 plus 6 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u169	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - the Parliamentary Group VOX, on the amendment of the legal system of nationality. [[File number 122/00176]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u170	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the amendment of the legal regime of nationality. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 338 plus 8 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 53 plus 1 telematics vote, 54; against, 285 plus 7 telematics votes, 292.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-15-CD220215.u171	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was nine o'clock at night.
