ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. As I said yesterday in the Permanent Chamber, I hope that everyone has had a few days of rest, that they have enjoyed them, that they have been happy with their families, with their friends and that they are therefore energetically and energetically able to do the best of parliaments at the new session. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Rumors]] I'm asking for a little silence, please. In place of Doña Carolina Spain Queen, asked Isabel Gema Pérez Recall if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u3	In place of dona María José García-Pelayo Jurado, I ask Don José Ignacio Romaní Cantera if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u4	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u5	Doña Isabel Gema Pérez Reminiscent and Don José Ignacio Romaní Cantera have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this plenary session includes the debate and vote on the Senate amendment to the draft comprehensive sexual freedom guarantee organic law. If adopted, the draft organic law must be submitted to a final vote on the whole, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, in compliance with this provision and bearing in mind that, as agreed by the Bureau of the House, all matters on the agenda of this plenary meeting will be voted in full telematics, he announced to them that the time limit for voting on matters that remain to be voted on, including the final vote on this initiative, will begin after the debate on the amendment adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Freedom of Sex Guarantee. I would also like to inform you that from 9:15 a.m., i.e. in approximately ten minutes, until 1 p.m. today, the amendment on this organic bill can be voted on by telematic means.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u7	We begin with the agenda item corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 13/2002 of 26 July 2002 establishing a new system of contributions for self-employed or self-employed workers and improving the protection by cessation of activity. The Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government to present the royal decree.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u8	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you today to defend Royal Decree-Law 13/2022, establishing a new system of contributions for self-employed or self-employed workers. It is a structural reform that makes the system of self-employment contributions more fair, flexible and equitable and that modernises and improves the protective action of social security towards this group. The change in this model makes the benefits aligned with the contribution effort and makes the model of protection of workers outside the general scheme more comparable. The real law decree that is voted on today is, like all the legislative reforms in this area that we are carrying out, the response to the mandate of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact adopted by the honourable Members in this plenary by an almost unanimous decision of the House in the autumn of 2020, after serious and deep parliamentary work. These recommendations include two on self-employed workers, to which this reform responds. This is specifically recommendation No. 4, which points out the need - and I quote literally - 'to promote, within the framework of the social dialogue, measures to bring the contribution bases of self-employed workers closer to their real income, so that the elements of contribution and solidarity on which the system is based are not adversely affected'. And then we have recommendation No. 5 - and I read again literally - that 'the public authorities are urged to adapt, within the framework of the social dialogue, the contribution of the special scheme of self-employed workers, linking the amount of contributions to their real income'. These two recommendations provide a clear and consistent guideline for the convergence of the autonomous regime with the general regime, and explicitly - and I think it is appropriate to emphasise - reforms must be developed through social dialogue. This is the mandate you, ladies and gentlemen, gave us textually... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u9	Excuse me a moment, Minister. Wait a minute, please, excuse me for interrupting you. I understand the desire to speak, to share, to explain the many summer experiences, but, please, I ask for silence because it is impossible to maintain concentration on the part of the speaker and to maintain attention on the part of those we want to listen to the speaker. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u10	He said that these recommendations explicitly point out - and I think it is appropriate to point out - that reforms must be developed through social dialogue. This is the mandate that you, ladies and gentlemen, gave us textually, and we have done so. The real decree law that I bring to this House today is a very complex and very worked out reform, negotiated not only with the social partners, the representatives of workers and employers, but also with the associations of self-employed people, representatives of a very heterogeneous collective, with various concerns and with which we have worked side by side for a few months. I think I can say on behalf of all those who have participated that it is a collective success that we have found a way to correct a situation that affects more than three million workers, that is, one in six workers in our country. These workers have so far received a different treatment in our social security system which has resulted in a problem of undercutting and inadequate social security protection action towards them. We therefore correct these problems with a reform that is born twice legitimated, by the Toledo Pact and by social dialogue. I have always insisted in this House that it is important that the major structural reforms - and this is certainly the case - are born of the greatest possible parliamentary and social agreement, although achieving this agreement is not an easy task. This broad consensus gives credibility to this reform for citizens and enables them to deploy all its effects in the medium and long term. I must thank all of you for the effort you have made. It has been months of intense work, in which everyone has demonstrated, from the self-defence of their interests, their determination to reach this agreement. Everyone has had the height to see how important it was for us to reach an agreement with which we would all feel comfortable. Thanks to this collective effort and to this sense of responsibility today we have a real decree-law supported by all the social partners and all the associations of the most representative self-employed. I would also like to point out that this agreement also fulfils one of the commitments with the European authorities in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. With this decree we fulfilled one of the main milestones of component 30 of the plan, correcting the anomaly that was supposed to have in the European context a system of contributions of self-employed workers disconnected from their real income. The need to fulfil this commitment and to ensure that the system is ready to go into operation next January supports the situation of extraordinary and urgent need that has prompted us to treat it as a royal decree law, although we remain open to dialogue with all parliamentary forces to improve this reform and ensure that its objectives are met in the best possible way. This decree law constitutes a turning point in a situation of abnormal departure for the group of self-employed workers; a situation whose diagnosis was shared by all, during which successive attempts to modify it so far had not really reached a good place. Unlike the countries of our environment, where the social contributions of self-employed workers depend on the income generated by their activity, in Spain this link did not exist. For this reason, 84 % of the members of the self-employed scheme contribute to the minimum base. The generalization of this minimum base among almost all self-employed workers and the permanence of it throughout the career, regardless of the evolution of their income, is not only difficult to understand in a contributory system of distribution like ours, but also - and this is very important - it results in a degree of structural unprotection of this group. The inadequacy of protective action is evident, first of all, in the pensions received by self-employed workers when they retire. The average retirement pension under the special self-employed scheme is 43% lower than the average pension under the general scheme, which represents a difference of more than EUR 600 per month. In particular, new pensioners under the general scheme receive an average pension of EUR 1494 and, on the other hand, the average pension for new pensioners under the self-employed scheme is only EUR 850 per month. This low level of contributions requires that one in three self-employed workers' pensions have minimum guarantees, a much higher percentage than those in the general scheme, where this occurs in one in five cases. This is an effort on the part of our public pension system as a whole, which, while in solidarity, is disrespectful to the principle of equity and reflects the low contribution of the self-governing system. In a system of distribution pensions it is particularly inappropriate and unfair to allow the choice of the amount of contribution to a subset of workers participating in the system. It is therefore acceptable that an infrastructural group should benefit from the solidarity of the whole system and, above all, that it is totally inefficient with regard to protective action, since it does not provide an adequate level of protection for this group of workers who choose their contribution. Secondly, the disconnection between income and contributions in the special scheme for self-employed workers creates serious problems of equity, as it favours the option of a universal minimum quota which is very high for these workers, who have to face low-income periods. It is therefore necessary to move towards a more equitable system, linking contributions with income and thus allowing contributions to be made lighter in periods when self-employed workers are experiencing difficulties or where, for different reasons, they have lower returns. Finally, self-employed people have faced more obstacles than other workers in accessing benefits when faced with certain contingencies during their work. In particular, the excessively restrictive approach governing the cessation benefit, which required the total and definitive cessation of activity by the self-employed to gain access to it, limited the protective action of Social Security towards this group. In addition, this prevented this benefit from effectively protecting the productive fabric at times of crisis, as we saw during the financial crisis. For this reason, the decree-law whose validation is now being voted on also incorporates a major reform in the provision of cessation of activity so that, like the new models of internal protection and flexibility put in place for the work of others in the labour reform, self-employment also benefits from a more effective and flexible coverage of the different contingencies to which it is exposed in the performance of its activity. Although much of the debate on reform revolves around the deployment of a new system of contribution tranches, I want to emphasize that this reform is much more than that; it is much more than that. It is, as I pointed out at the beginning, a structural reform of the relationship between social security and the collective of self-employed workers. In doing so, we are moving towards a new, more flexible, fairer and more sustainable model of self-protection action for self-employed workers, which decisively promotes the convergence of social security systems and, at the same time, treats the specificities of self-employed workers in a differentiated way. In my view, there are three elements that have made it possible for us to reach agreement on this design. Firstly, I would like to highlight the progress made in interoperability between the databases of the different public administrations and the new digital tools for direct communication with the self-employed developed by the General Treasury of Social Security. These advances are key to the incorporation of the concept of net returns, a key issue for the implementation of the real income contribution system. Net income is calculated by deducting from income all expenditure incurred in the exercise of the activity and which is necessary to obtain such income. In addition, a general cost allowance of 7 % is applied for non-company self-employed persons and 3 % for company self-employed persons. Well, as it cannot otherwise be, putting this concept of net returns into operation and operational requires a technical effort on the part of the public administration in its management of information and in its interaction with citizens. Today this effort is feasible thanks to the progress in the digitization of the Spanish Public Administration and also thanks to the availability of applications and tools that facilitate electronic interactivity between users of Social Security and with the Tax Agency. Collaboration between different administrative units of the State is key to establishing transparency mechanisms between data and security protocols that facilitate the interoperability of social security and tax agency databases. Secondly, we have been able to reach this agreement also thanks to the collective learning that has meant for all of us the experience provided by the crisis of the COVID and, to a lesser extent, also that of the volcano of Cumbre Vieja, in La Palma, and the need to deploy new agile policies of protection to the autonomous in the face of the economic situation that they have had to face during this period. During the pandemic, almost 1.5 million self-employed workers - and I would like to highlight this figure, 1.5 million self-employed workers - came to benefit from these extraordinary benefits. As a result, and unlike past crises, not only has self-employment not been destroyed, but the recovery is very remarkable. In less than a year, the pre-pandemic level of self-employment has been restored and, to date, there are 50,000 more self-employment in the social security system than before the pandemic. To put it in perspective, one in eight self-employment jobs were destroyed in the financial crisis and, more than a decade later, one in three jobs destroyed during the crisis had not yet been recovered. In short, the deployment of extraordinary benefits towards the self-employed group in these exceptional years has enabled us all to see how a different conception of this policy can serve to improve the protection of self-employed people in parallel with what has been done with the workers of the general regime in the labour reform and to facilitate economic recovery after episodes of crisis. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is another of the achievements of this royal decree: the modalities of the cessation of activity are broadened to adapt to a wide number of typologies and it is also made compatible with the partial cessation of activity, that is, the total closure of the business is no longer necessary to access this benefit. The cyclic and sectoral RED mechanisms are also incorporated for self-employed workers, as they have been incorporated into the labour reform for workers in the general scheme, which allows self-employed persons to be protected also in the face of an unfavourable economic situation or structural changes which require self-employment to be re-established in order to transform or modernise their business. Thirdly, this agreement has been made possible thanks to the work and willingness of all the partners and the recognition by all the partners that the involvement and participation of all of them in the agreement was fundamental to their success. Thanks to this will of agreement, all have made sacrifices, but the demands and legitimate interests of all have been internalized. This new system includes significantly reduced quotas for self-employed workers with net earnings below the inter-branch minimum wage. For another group of workers, those with net returns between the interprofessional minimum wage and the 1700 euros, the quotas will be similar or even lower than the current ones. This implies that one in two self-employed workers will have access to a lower quota than the one currently paid. This reduction can be up to 30% compared to current quotas, which amounts to around EUR 1000 per year. Overall, three out of four self-employed people are going to contribute less or the same as they are now. However, this reform favours mainly some groups, such as women or young people: seven out of ten women working as self-employed have net returns below the minimum wage, and the same applies to self-employed workers under the age of 30: three out of four have yields below the minimum wage and are therefore going to have access to lower quotas. This is a central element, reflecting the flexibility of the new system, which adapts to the income situation of people at different stages of their activity or in the different circumstances of their business. This helps, for example, young people when they need it the most, in the early stages of their activity, and enables them to improve access to benefits as their performance increases. These objectives also update the design of the reduced quota for those self-employed who start their activity, correcting some weaknesses already detected in the previous model and focusing aid in the second year on those new entrepreneurs who still need help for their low income. These are changes that are going to affect more than three million workers in our country, which will be a challenge for Social Security, but it will also be a process of adaptation and learning for the whole group of self-employed workers. This is why, although in some cases the economic impact is minimal, this modernisation of the autonomous contribution scheme will be implemented gradually, to give this group time to adapt to the new system in which contributions depend on their net returns. Overall, this is a far-reaching, very substantive reform, involving visible and immediate improvements for self-employed workers, but above all it will mean a before and after in their relationship with social security. It is a turning point that will not only improve protective action on this group of workers, but it will - and I think it is fundamental - because it will increase the fairness of the system, its flexibility and its sustainability. And above all, it is a reform that gives stability, which is based on consensus and dialogue, on the recommendations that emerged from this House and on the agreement with the social partners and the representatives of the self-employed. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must congratulate ourselves on the work that has been done, and I ratify the contributions of all those who have made it possible; contributions that can continue in the process of this decree law as a law in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Cañizares Pacheco. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u12	Thank you, President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. What you have said here, Minister, tells it because you have it written, because it is dictated by the script of sanchism. What I'm going to tell you has not been told by anyone to tell me; it is told by common sense and my professional experience as an autonomous. [[Applauds]] The essence of the royal decree that today brings to validation lies in three pillars that are the principles of this Government's policies: the lie, the increase in collection and the attack on freedom. Many of those who pass after me through this rostrum will show their complacency with the new system of quotation for the self-employed and will speak of their goodness, as if it were that balm of Fierabrás to which the ingenious hidelgo of La Mancha always referred, and almost all of them will have something in common: that they have neither been nor are nor will ever be self-sufficient, a very revealing fact. [[Applauds]] As I said, this royal decree revolves around three axes. One, the lie. The Government says that the self-employed regime is deficient because, in the use of their freedom, almost all self-employed people have chosen the minimum contribution base. Have you not thought that the choice of that minimum basis of assessment may be due to the fact that it is indeed a system that has many weaknesses, that you are not able to offer the self-employed the consolidated rights until the time of how much you are going to charge, but what you have to pay? I mean, the certainty is given today, which I'm going to pay, but not how much I'm going to collect from pension. And among other issues, the various governments so far have vetoed the possibility that many self-employed people could contribute on higher bases when they requested it because they were close to retirement age, and little less that they have been told that they had fraudulent behaviour. If a person is about fifty years old, he is considering retirement and at that time he has more resources, more availability, less family burdens, it is logical that he thinks of his retirement at that time and not when he is twenty years old, but you accuse him of being fraudulent behaviors. It is therefore a lie that the social security system for the self-employed is deficient as a result of the choice of a minimum basis, because we are also faced with a contributory system: depending on what I bring, I will charge. So where's the deficit? As for the increase in collection, I will tell you that you fall into your own trap. If they say that the system is deficient because the majority of the self-employed - 84% - are contributing to the minimum base, it turns out that it will now cease to be deficient. Why? Because they're going to collect more. And I'm going to give you two examples. So far, all those with incomes below the inter-professional minimum wage, in principle, had no obligation to discharge the social security self-employed regime, and justice has been repeatedly endorsed in its jurisprudence. From now on, a self-employed person with incomes below the minimum inter-professional wage will have to contribute approximately 30% of his disposable income. Secondly, what they have also done has been to increase the contribution for self-employed entrepreneurs from EUR 60 to 80. And I'll give you another piece of information. At this time and under this scheme which you have just implemented, retired people who are compatible with their pension and the development of an economic activity will also have to discharge the social security self-employed regime with a number of payments, a matter which has not been the case so far, because you are obviating whether it is a regular activity, an activity which is only residual and whether or not the income exceeds the interprofessional minimum wage. As far as freedom is concerned, I say to him that, in fact, it is an attack on freedom, no matter how much boonist marketing the government intends to deceive and convince the self-employed under that slogan of 'We do it for your sake'. The reality is that this is one of the nuclear issues of this decree, that attack on the freedom of the self-governing by suppressing your right to choose, because you progressives, -ists, -ists, are very rights to choose on ethical and moral issues, but when it comes to the right to choose on economic issues are more of the burgeoning right, that is, we all have to obey the Government, are more of the imposition. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] And under the pretext of protecting the self-employed, we find a social communist government that has always lived from the public, which gives lessons to the self-employed on how to plan their future. Because, of course, the self-employed, despite having set up a business and making a living with their efforts, have no idea how to plan their retirement. Therefore, they attack one of the few spaces where responsibility and individual freedom for the self-employed could still be exercised, which was to choose where and how to save or invest and design their retirement. Because you always show hostility towards any behavior within society that involves exercising personal and individual freedom. Its aim is to inculcate citizens who, either in the fold, or who alone will be unable to live by their own means. From VOX we know that the self-employed, instead of imposing, need transparent and reliable information, certainty and legal certainty. Minister, if, as I have said before, you are not able to offer citizens the amount of consolidated social security contributions rights, do you think you will be able to organise the future and pensions for the self-employed? [[Applauds]] Finally, as regards the protective action that you have spoken about by Social Security, we agree that we must protect the self-employed, yes, but we must protect them from you, from this government that has ruined thousands of them. I remind you that they forced thousands of them to close their businesses through a state of unconstitutional alarm, declared unconstitutional thanks to VOX's resources. They were illegally denied their right to work and have not yet been compensated as they deserve and as we have defended since VOX. They behaved with them as an entrepreneur who sent a worker home without compensation. Can you imagine, Minister, that thinking of the general interest of the Spaniards we send you and your entire government home without the right to compensation? Being the goal pursued by the general interest and to save lives, it would be justified for us to skip the Constitution and put you on the street. [[Applauds]] That is the protection you have given the autonomous. As regards the protection system, there is a possibility that the self-employed person will receive the cessation benefit, which is when he or she has debts exceeding 150 % of his or her income. Do you know what you've done? Excluding from those debts that have been incurred with Finance and Social Security, when many self-employed today still carry debts with Social Security and Finance from the pandemic, which they could not pay because they did not generate income because you forced them to close. [[Applauds]] In order to complete the menu of misconceptions posed by the Government and those who dance to it water, you have modified article 117 of the General Tax Law - I say this to hear me from the Minister of Finance, who is here - and you have modified that article on the pretext that Social Security can obtain better information from the Tax Agency regarding the determination of the bases, but that is a lie, it is not true. In the explanatory statement of the royal decree you say that they do so in relation to the special tax system of allocation of income, and in the final wording of the article they have omitted the allocation of income and have left special tax regimes, so that now the tax management bodies, which so far could not, will be able to check special tax regimes, when that space was reserved for the Inspection, which always gives greater and better guarantees to the taxpayer. And it is that on 29 March 2021 the Supreme Court handed down a judgment which referred to abuses committed by tax management bodies that initiated proceedings on special tax regimes for which they were not entitled. So by the back door we've already amended the General Tax Law and it's all fixed. All right. [[Applauds]] Of course, let us stress the absence of the law of transparency as to what will be the actual computable income or returns for the purpose of determining the base of contribution, because what is felt after a careful reading of the text is that the self-employed must contribute not for the returns of their economic activity, but for all. And I ask you, Minister: even for the supposed returns? Because, of course, you talk about derivatives of holding participation in an entity with or without legal personality. What does this mean? That if a self-employed person has a mechanical workshop with his brother-in-law for the value of the social participation he has in that entity will you impute an assumed income to him? Because it is not clear in the royal decree law. Are they secretly introducing a tax on the capital disguised as the highest social security contribution? [[Applauds]] Careful. Another pildorita. When the Tax Agency initiates a verification procedure and determines that the returns declared by an autonomous person are lower than it considers, this liquidation will logically refer it to Social Security so that Social Security also conforms to a new contribution base, and all these do so by obviating the right of the taxpayer to seek such liquidation. The self-employed will therefore now have to pay the tax quota resulting from the liquidation of the Treasury and the quota resulting from the liquidation of the Social Security, despite its appeal and then the courts give it the reason, that is, more payments. And here we enter into dangerous ground on the subject of the Tax Agency, because you know - and if you don't know it I tell you, from my experience - that tax legislation has many ambiguities and this from 'will be deductible those expenses necessary for the development of the activity'... You, for example, when you are going to play golf - because you play golf - do you see the clothing you bring today? No, right? Another different one. That is, that the suit you wear could be considered as a necessary expenditure for the development of your activity, as can happen to an autonomous, a mason, a commercial when they buy your work uniform. [[applause]] Well, that's what you say to tax management and it sounds like Chinese. I've seen mobile phone bills fulminate to an autonomous because they picked up phone calls on Sunday. Look at the level! Nothing has to do with the computable performance for tax purposes of an activity with economic performance and, therefore, the problem for the self-employed is you. There is life beyond the public pension and Dad State. I tell you that every article, every provision, every section of this rule is a deadly trap for the entrepreneur; the hunt for the self-employed, the free citizen and the diver has begun. Take care of yourselves, but resist! And as one singer said: They played in time the lie and the truth, they competed in time and the lie runs more, but at the moment the truth came to the end. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun where you're going. From our parliamentary group we believe that the question that can be answered in order to decide or set a voting position in this royal decree is whether it improves and/or resolves the current situation. The current situation has already been defined profusely, but in any case I believe that it could very schematically be defined with two parameters. First, the difficulty of more and more people in this autonomous group, of those 3.4 million autonomous people, in paying the quotas, is the result of the current situation. And it seems that the coming will not help much more either. And the second characteristic feature would have to do with a reality that has been marked by the increase in payment of contributions in recent years in order to achieve a pension somewhat higher than that which would allow him all contributions made during the first part of his work as self-employed. I am not going to define this as fraudulent activity or not, but in any case it is a finding of the evidence that for decades in the Spanish State many self-employed people have raised their contributions in recent years in order to obtain a higher pension, when they could have done so from the very beginning. In any case, those two features are those that define the current situation and before this the actual decree - as I said in reply to the question I pointed out - we do believe that it improves some of the circumstances that are currently present. We believe that it has a higher level of protection, equivalent to that of the pandemic, for this sector; a sector that is showing ever more vetoes or traces of risk. We believe that extending the RED mechanism or lowering the partial cessation from 75 % to 60 % are good measures. We also believe this in relation to the uninterrupted contribution, which was previously in the twelve months preceding the application for this aid and which now sets twelve months in the last two years. We can therefore point out that the current situation is improving, but in any case and to be clear, we believe that it does not solve some of the underlying problems. So it's a half answer. Better? Yeah. But does it work out? No, because there are elements that are postponed for the future. For example, there is talk of the need to improve social protection for self-employed women workers and, however, temporary horizons, such as 2025, are set to seriously address some of these elements. It is not necessary to be Nostradamus to predict that, if everything they have been saying for months in the different media is fulfilled, it does not seem to indicate that in 2025 the situation will be much better for them than for the rest of the citizens of the current Spanish state. Everyone guessed one autumn lasted, one difficult autumn and an entrance to a crisis of consequences and duration still unpredictable. It seems to us, therefore, that it is a mistake to postpone these improvements to a debate to be held in 2025. We believe that everything that has to do with subsidies remains unaddressed. We believe that everything that has to do with conciliation for self-employed workers is still in the dark and, as always, because the policy for that is recurrent, we are pulling words and expressions that help to relax that desire to postpone. We are talking about creating an observatory for the monitoring, control and evolution of the provision or cessation of activity by economic quotas. We are talking about starting work so that those with debts less than twice the SMI can split it. Not bad, but it doesn't work out today. It remains out, and that is what we are most concerned about, an upward revision of the higher quotas, because if you have told us about justice, you have told us about solidarity, I would tell you about equality and equidistribution. What we see is that the lower quotas have a percentage to bear a higher expenditure, a payment greater than the higher incomes and to this we do not find too much sense, because we believe that we do have to talk about progressive - as we talked about in the general social security system, as we talked about in the tax reform that one day will have to come - it would also have to be seen here and it makes no sense that the lower tranches have to devote around 30% or 35% of their net yield to covering that quota while the higher tranches - for example, the 12 tranche - have to devote around 9% or 15% of their net yield. It doesn't make much sense to build this inverted pyramid, where those who have less percent more have to dedicate to that quota, while those who get more dedicate less percent less. We believe that it is necessary to reverse this burden and that this is not an act of revenge but an act of justice; in short, to work for equality and solidarity. That is why we are abstaining, because that is the demand we made to this Government when they put forward this initiative. We told them to reverse this stage reality by making higher net labour yields devote a higher percentage so that lower net labour yields do not have to devote so much. We believe that this does make the social security system sustainable, that it does make any financing system sustainable and that, ultimately, it is much more equitable and fair than what is currently being proposed to us. That's why we're going to abstain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u16	Egun on. Good morning. Welcome back to the parliamentary course, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, President of Congress. I do not know if you know, Minister, a song by Fito and Fitipaldis that says: I have nothing to say; the lyrics of the whole song are: I have nothing to say. It seems, in principle, that a law that responds to a good agreement, to an agreement between those who stand as social representatives, both in the trade union sphere and also in the area of the representation of the self-employed and by the Government, is positive. It is also positive that an agreement responds, in principle, to the development of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, recommendations 4 and 5 as you have recalled in your statement; an agreement in that direction which seeks to approximate the contribution bases of the self-employed to their real income; an agreement which, in addition, transfers to the law certain mechanics to be able to relativize in some way those contributions in different stages or to do so progressively in different years, as it does for the years 23, 24 and 25, with the horizon of 2030, in order to obtain this act of equalization between different systems, is positive. That is why our assessment of the law, in principle, is positive; that is, this law responds to agreements and content that must be supported by this House and our group, therefore, will support it and will vote in favour. But it's also not true that we have nothing to say, it's not true. I told you about the appearance you had before the Toledo Pact Commission on 22 July, if I am not mistaken, in which I said that I look at the proposal, that it must be applied correctly, because it can bring inconsistencies that could lead to confusion with it, because this or any other measure will result in contradictions that can be insurmountable both internally and externally. At the internal level, because if the contribution is not effective on the condition that it is actually in line with actual income, there will be an insurmountable gap, not between benefits and contributions that are contributory, but an added effort of solidarity that could make the system resent, being decisive in order to avoid such a consequence its tax treatment, the tax information and the possibility that such contributions should be able to adapt to the previous fiscal year. I see, because this is a determining factor in the future of this measure and, therefore, also in the desire for integration. At the external level, because it is not possible to require those who are going to participate in the system to a different level of sacrifice, that is also in the area of solidarity. It is therefore appropriate not only to equalise contributions and benefits, but also their tax treatment. It is important that the determination of the elements affecting the contribution base is not different between the current schemes or in the future between the different situations, because it is urgent to determine the elements that will be able to indicate wage expenditure, that is, what elements should be taken into account as wage expenditure for purposes of deductions in the different taxes that will prove to be applicable to them. [[Mr. Capdevilla makes affirmative gestures]] Mr Capdevilla points out that yes, that indeed. I'm going back to the beginning. This is a good law because it responds to recommendations 4 and 5. It is a good law because it is the product of the social agreement and the agreement with self-employed. But I look at its future development, which must be equitable. Remember that the future of the system lies in its income, but also in the guarantee of the principles of solidarity and contribution and, therefore, in the link that this must have with its tax treatment; it is very important. Also, unfortunately, it is a very good agreement that the Congress is brought without the possibility of affecting its content. Because, Minister - Government, in general - the interlocutors, at least as far as the democratic legitimation of this or any other measure is concerned, we are still the representatives elected by this House. Write down, please, but also the entire government. It's not the first, but I hope it's the last time that happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, President, Minister, good morning. I am surprised because you must be the only ones who must know the few self-governing happy with this royal decree, because I have not met any. The decree that the Government has to validate today cannot be assumed by anyone who says he is a liberal, who says he defends the self-employed and who believes in parliamentary democracy - and I explain myself - because we are going to talk about the form and the substance of the new system of contributions of the self-employed that you bring in this royal decree. Today we are launching a new parliamentary course, a new course, but with the old practices of the Government, which is to do things by royal decree, and with these which we validate today there are already one hundred and twenty-five in this legislature, always at the stroke of BOE, without debate and without dialogue. We are going to hear, and we have heard again and again, arguments such as that the agreement is born of social dialogue and that it is a mandate of the Toledo Pact to Parliament. You go back to the social dialogue. A law that modifies the system of quotations of the autonomous of our country, one of the most important sectors for our economy, cannot turn its back on this House and without giving the opposition the slightest room to debate and improve the text with proposals such as that which we, for example, have been putting on the table and carrying on our electoral agenda. You have spoken about the historical importance of this structural reform and therefore this reform should have been a bill, as you committed yourself to me, with Citizens, in a committee a few months ago. It is not worth saying now that they are going to accept its processing as a bill because, unfortunately, we already have experience in this legislature and we know what happens to the bills, that they are filling the drawers and that they never get to be processed. On the other hand, you do not stop repeating that it is a mandate of the Toledo Pact and that there is agreement with the social partners. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u19	Excuse me, Mrs. Muñoz. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u20	He said that they continue to be justified in the argument that this royal decree is born of the social agreement and a recommendation of the Toledo Pact. This argumental trap may be able to convince the gentlemen of the People's Party, who will support them, but it is not for us. The Toledo Pact, in its recommendation 5, provides - and I read it textually - that the public authorities are urged to adapt within the framework of the social dialogue the contribution of the special scheme for self-employed workers. The public authorities are urged, ladies and gentlemen. According to the Constitution, the only public power that can legislate is the Legislative Power, that is, us. Therefore, the Toledo Pact did not mandate any association to three self-government associations that represent only one third of our country's self-government to close such an important law with the Government, empowering the Legislature to negotiate. We are Parliament; the only ones who represent the autonomous - not just a third of them - are Members, we are voted on or we are voted on. Parliament is sovereign and does not have to ask permission from anyone but the Spanish to do their job. Nor do we need the Toledo Pact to talk about linking the amount of contributions to real income, because adapting and linking, as I know, does not mean evading. Taxing on income does not mean taxing on income, which is what you are approving today. I go to the bottom of the royal decree, to the content. I began by saying that there is not a single liberal who can accept that and I repeat it. This royal decree is a good thermometer of liberalism, because this reform that you will validate here-PSOE, Podemos and PP - directly attacks the freedom of the self-employed on the four sides, and on the basis of saying that it is for your sake, it will now be the State that will dictate the social security contribution base and not the self-employed who will decide freely to organize financially. You charge yourself with a pen the principle of freedom of choice that self-employment gives you to decide how to save or reinvest in your business. In addition, you say that this royal decree benefits two thirds of the autonomous. I understand that you are pleased that two thirds of the self-employed in this country have incomes below the inter-branch minimum wage and have to pay fixed quotas even if they have zero incomes. Let's see who protects or benefits from this royal decree. Does it benefit the most vulnerable, those who earn less than the interprofessional minimum wage? No, because with this decree the self-employed with earnings less than the interprofessional minimum wage, which so far could not be discharged into the system, will have to be and will have to pay a fixed fee between 200 and 300 euros, i.e. self-employed who, at best, will have to pay the interprofessional minimum wage up to 30% of what they earn. We are going to meet even with self-employed people who have to pay more to Social Security than they earn for their activity, a whole nonsense unless you want to generate more submerged economy, more inequality and more poverty. Look, we defend, and so it comes in our programme, that those self-employed with incomes below the inter-professional minimum wage should not pay fixed quotas each month. We are clear, who enters zero euros pays zero quota. And let's see if this benefits entrepreneurs. But neither do they penalise you, because you said that you are going to correct a trend and a deficiency of the system, when you mean that correcting is to raise the flat rate, a rate uphill that is going to increase from 60 euros per month to 80 euros per month. Let's see if they benefit the self-employed with average wages. And neither. A self-employed person with income equivalent to an average wage, which in 2020 was closed by 2038 euros, will pay, thanks to the PSOE and the PP, an additional 100 euros per month of contributions. We are talking about the average annual salary of between 20,000 and 22,000 euros a year, that of those for you who must be the rich.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u21	Mrs. Muñoz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u22	I'm done, President. But no, it is the propagators, those who generate employment and wealth and are again being plundered. You're throwing yourself back into the jugular of professionals. Come to the self-contained and salivate, rub your hands and see them as ATMs. I tell you that they already have enough autonomous Spanish workers with a triggered inflation and unprecedented energy restrictions to shoot their quota with a decree like this. They can't count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. This royal decree, although it represents some progress in the contributions of the self-employed, in the opinion of the BNG does not solve the fundamental problem of tax inequity. The ministry has included fifteen sections of real income, net returns, with quotas ranging from 230 to 500 euros per month. We understand that the reduction of the minimum quota and the increase of the ceilings go in the right direction, but they are still far from the logic of progressiveness and proportionality, and they will even be in three years' time. Those who least enter part of 35% and can pay much more than 50% and those who most enter part of 8% and can pay much less, i.e. pay more who least enters. The heterogeneous situation of self-employed persons and the different treatment of deductible expenditure should also be taken into account, as significant comparative aggravations can be generated. In our view, specific attention should be paid to the various sectors, such as agriculture, which is considered to be aggrieved, logically, or managers of companies with or without activity, with or without workers in charge, etc. The real situation of the thousands of self-employed who do not arrive at the end of the month or who directly have no income in certain months also needs to be addressed, for whom maintaining the minimum quota is unworkable by paying more than they earn, and for which the flat rate for reduced income should be maintained at least beyond the first few years. Procedures should also be simplified to the maximum, avoiding unnecessary red tape. Therefore, the BNG will abstain in the validation, but calls for the processing as a draft law in order to be able to submit formal amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u26	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, we are in the process of validating this royal decree law, when you were pleased to come and explain in the Toledo Pact Commission last July the content of the reform that this entails. The fact is that it is mandatory to make a precedent for this issue. This is not a new debate, nor of this legislature, but a recurrent and historic one, on how to articulate a system of contribution for the self-employed that is socially just and that is also economically valid, a demand for the Toledo Pact, the latest recommendations and the previous recommendations of the Toledo Pact, which today is reflected on these bases of social dialogue and this royal decree law, without prejudice to the fact that, as has already been announced, it will be treated as a bill, which can help to some extent in these bases of minimal consensus to make some adjustment to the content. However, the fact is that it is contained, the change in the system of quotations, we understand it as necessary to change today's reality in anticipation of the reality of the future. You, Minister, pointed out earlier the reality of low pensions, pensions which are often accompanied by supplements, and it is therefore clear that in order to change the reality of pensions and pensions in the future of self-employed people we have to do some kind of action in today's reality. But this bet on the contribution for the real income we have to agree started off with bad foot, with bad information to the extent that it was confused to quote for all the income that we had, and not for what really, after the jobs that we have been able to do and the interaction that we have been able to have, we can quote for the net returns. Hence the importance of establishing these criteria to determine what are the net returns of this self-employed person at the time of writing, and not all of his income, not the whole amount of an invoice. We understand that in this margin and these corrections that have taken place during this process there have been improvements that can shed light on this initial confusion and, in this sense, as regards the defence of the self-employed, which is so much in question, as I have said many times, we too stand out as defenders of the self-employed. And the defence of the self-employed is a polyhedral issue, practically: it affects support, it affects social prestige, it affects creating opportunities, and today we find ourselves - and this must also be explained in order to place the debate in the terms that correspond - in one of the different branches of this defence of the self-employed, their contribution, their contribution system. Therefore, for our part, we agree and will vote in favour of the validation of the new system of autonomous contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Finally, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u28	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, once again we are faced with a demonstration of the abuse by this Government of the technique of the Decree-Law. This is already an issue that generates a certain blush, even a employer such as CECOT has shown it to be so. It is a systemic problem that we believe should be solved. We are therefore faced with an initiative that has to be considered a starting point, in no case the closure of an issue as important as the contribution for self-employment, and therefore we insist that it be treated as a bill. The central thing for us is not the technical solution, the so-called change in the formula. Although for you, Minister, and for the ministry it is very important, this is a formal question, because the full realization of the system after the transitional period is in the air. We ask you to abandon for a moment the ministry's watch, to leave the office and to focus on the real problems in the day-to-day lives of self-employed women workers, who are facing an unprecedented crisis. And if they go down there, what they are going to find is that, of the almost 600,000 Catalan autonomous people, of the 3 300 000 in the whole state, none of them will agree that the reform that is to be approved today is a system change, because what you propose does not solve the lives of the autonomous people today nor will it protect them from the crisis that is being announced for the coming months. Beyond the collection, beyond the sustainability of the system, beyond the new formula of contributions, beyond the administrative bubble there is no change of system. The change of system would be not to quote when there is no income, as just a few months ago, in the months of the pandemic, or as now, in the midst of the energy crisis, with the prices fired. The change in the system would be for an autonomous person to apply for leave without having to continue to contribute. The change in the system would be to facilitate and encourage self-employed people - especially we talk about companies - to reinvest in their businesses to consolidate them, improve them, make them bigger and more competitive to create wealth and work. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u30	The change in the system would ultimately be to consider the self-employed not secondary economic agents but potential enterprises to generate wealth and work. In the area of benefits, the change of system would not only focus on the situation of cessation of activity but also provide for decent pensions for self-employed workers, and not only that, but will also encourage their training and professionalisation. In addition, instead of the Government raining millions, as we will see later in the Royal Energy Measures Act, for Madrid's motorways and 1360 million for hydroelectric companies, the change in the system would be that the State will allocate these amounts to solve the problems of the productive economy, for example, by providing direct transfers, as proposed by the PIMEC, to the more than 50,000 Catalan companies, many of them of autonomous and micro-enterprises at risk of bankruptcy because they cannot cope with the maturity of ICO credits.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u31	Mr. Pagès, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u32	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President. While you worry about the formula, we insist, what there has to be is a system change, a system change that Junts per Catalunya already proposed in the PR that we present in the debate of the state of the nation, a bill that approaches the problem of autonomous people in a global and systematic way and does not focus on a simple formal question of change in the formula of contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u33	Thank you, Mr Pagès. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u34	Good morning. Minister, to contextualize, you tried a yolandaz. I think he's got a little shot in the ass, and I can't help but celebrate. Let me say therefore that, as you have rightly said, it is good that there is social agreement and parliamentary agreement, but - let me say - prioritizing the second on the first is a contempt for parliamentarianism and, in the end - you will forgive me - it is a fear of democracy. Entering into the royal decree law - which you bring us in the form of a plate of those who are lentils, and we will see if we eat them or leave them - when it is processed, if it is processed, as a draft law - on what you would require, if we may, some guarantee - it does not hurt us, the parliamentary children of Joan Tardà, who has been asking for it from this rostrum for fourteen years, to implement the system of progressive quotas. In this regard, I suppose that the groups of the Government will make their half-full bottle speech, and others we will perhaps make that of the half-empty. You smile, and so do I. You know, it's always seemed to me that the one who makes the half full bottle speech is because he's had half the missing bottle. And if not, it's usually the other way around. [[Applauds]] We note and applaud that there is a change in contributions. We'll see if it happens in the system. But the picture seems to us insufficient. Not in vain, the CEO blesses you. But when the CEO, gentlemen of the left, tells you not to touch a coma, fists!, gentlemen of the left, that means you have to take the magnifying glass and look at each and every one of the comas. [[Applauds]] That is why we believe that it is necessary to be treated as a bill and openly, because there are very harmful cases, and I will quote three if I have time. One is the case of the self-employed in the countryside. He has already received a letter from the Union of Unions, although our interlocutor is the Union of Pagesos. And in that letter, which you already know, you point out how the system you are proposing is left to the injured. I would like to thank your Secretary of State, Mr Borja Suárez, for his sensitivity, because I know that he is already talking to Unión de Pagesos and they will try to find a solution to the pressing situation after twenty years by deceiving the autonomous farmers, who receive the lowest pensions; I insist, the lowest, and then there are those who fill their mouths talking about emptied Spain. We also believe that the assessment of the profits of commercial societies by the working partners generates inequality with respect to capitalist partners. We believe that the regularization of the bases should be produced an+2, when we are able to make some apps... You have presided over the AIReF, but even I, who am a poor village vet, have tried and I think the app works. Well, if we're able to do that, why, if you've paid too much in the 2023 refunds, you won't get the money back until 2025. That's crazy. And finally, you know, the self-employed are the pariahs of the pension system and the labour system in general. But it turns out there are pariahs of pariahs, who are the disabled self-employed. We believe that the necessary regulatory reforms should be promoted to extend to self-employed persons with disabilities with equal intensity and reach the conditions of enhanced protection already in place in the regulation of early retirement of workers with disabilities for general purposes. The general protection of persons with disabilities should not depend on whether they are self-employed or self-employed. We hope that we will soon get to work and correct how deficient the precipitation has forced you to bring this Parliament. Many thanks and viscose the free autonomes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u36	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to see you at this new session. In the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can do nothing but rejoice that a government has finally taken itself seriously and had the courage to change a regime such as that of self-government, which is absolutely obsolete, from the year 1970, when the dictator was still alive, reaching an agreement with self-government organizations, employers and trade unions. Today the government brings us a law that contains great progress, such as the reduction of the costs inherent in the exercise of the activity, with an additional reduction of 7%; the expansion of the REDD mechanism, which is already in the general regime; the incorporation of the changes that were made from the cessation of activity during the pandemic, and also a new right, which is the partial cessation of activity, which will last between four months and two years, with a benefit that will be 50% of the regulatory base and that can be compatible with the work, which will not force the self-employed to close their business and see their project as completed, but will be able to move forward. And this is very important because let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the self-employed are not entitled to unemployment and that the cessation of activity forced them, as I said, to completely close their business, and it was also a cessation to which very few self-employed people were able to access. In addition, a flat rate of EUR 80 is also set for the start of the activity, and I think that is the most important thing and that everyone was waiting for, that it will finally be assessed on the basis of real income. This is important because it will mean a reduction in the contribution gap between those who enter most and those who enter least, with 64 euros less during this and next year and 94 euros less in 2025 and an increase of those who enter most with up to 122 for next year and 296 euros for 2025. This is also a gradual reform, which must be completed in nine years, and this law, ladies and gentlemen, only concrete changes to three years, i.e. until 2025. And this, although it is the good way - because it has to be said, it is the good way - means that we have to keep moving, because it is not enough. Let us imagine that, unfortunately of life, in 2025 he will not be ruling a progressive government, but a liberal right-wing government. What does that mean? It could mean that this government could condemn the autonomists of the first stage, that is, half of the autonomists, to collect between 400 and 420 euros from 2025, and that, ladies and gentlemen, remains enormously unfair. It is dangerous because this law has not put a final goal and, as I said, imagine that it governs the People's Party or a right-wing government; imagine Mr. Feijoo ruling with this law in his hand, a Mr. Feijoo, the Lord of yachts and the friend of drug traffickers, who bases his only proposals on repealing the laws of this government and of this parliamentary majority of the left, who are making enormous progress on rights in Spain. We therefore insist that, as this law is well established and is the intention of this Government, it is necessary to continue to introduce, in order to homogenize as much as possible this regime, the autonomous regime, with the general regime in the following six years from 2026. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u38	And that is why I bring you some ideas for the following years: to follow the line of the modification of the tranches and the bases of contribution in order to further reduce the lowest contributions and increase, above all, the highest ones; to establish objective and clear criteria with which there is no discussion on the reason for the cessation of activity; to increase certain rights, such as the reduction of the duration of the period of the first sixty days for temporary incapacity or the approval of the grant equivalent to the allowance for more than fifty-two years of the general scheme. In addition, it is also important to incorporate a reconciliation-oriented feminist perspective into Stalin, such as facilitating the reintegration of self-employed mothers after maternity leave by establishing a reduced quota or figures similar to those of paid permits available to wage earners. And I see, ladies and gentlemen, because, although the right hand means that contributions are taxed, that is nothing but an absolute lie. The contributions depend on the benefits of workers, and self-employed women are workers. And I see, because a zero contribution means zero benefit for temporary incapacity, zero pension for contributory retirement, i.e. zero rights. But this reform was also absolutely important and contributions are absolutely important because the current situation needs to be learned, and the current situation is tremendously unfair. Approximately, as Minister Escrivá has said, 60% of self-employed workers have incomes below the SMI, more than 75% have incomes below EUR 1700 and the current minimum quota is almost EUR 300 -294, in particular -, together with fixed expenditure and variables. And this has a direct consequence, and that is that 84% of self-employed people contribute by the minimum base to be able to survive. And this is a chain, because it implies the reduction of your social security benefits, a huge difficulty to be able to maintain your company and lower income from Social Security itself. The worst example is the pension. The average retirement pension is EUR 854, whereas in the general scheme it is EUR 1494, i.e. EUR 600 less, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is discrimination. In conclusion, I am extremely pleased with this amendment to the law on self-employed persons, to the special regime on self-employed persons. I believe that it is a great step that this Government is taking in changing it, in making a more just and more secure regime, and we must continue to make progress, because today we have shown that this Government believes in the self-employed, takes it seriously and has come to guarantee their rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u40	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party demanded in the Toledo Pact that the modification of the contributions of the self-employed in respect of their real income be made in the social dialogue, that the Government not do so unilaterally and that therefore negotiations be held within that framework. It was one of the conditions we put in place to approve the pact, and, yes, it was finally introduced in the fourth and fifth recommendations, after much fighting. Even because of this demand, we were accused of trying to invigorate the agreement. We made our commitment to the more than three million self-employed to a photo at any price. This is not the proposal that the People's Party would have made, but it is the agreement reached within the framework of the social dialogue by the self-employed that we will respect, as we committed ourselves; agreement between representatives of employers, workers and self-employed organisations. This agreement has to be the starting point for further improvement and that is why we have requested its processing as a bill. There are many aspects left in the air, improvements which we consider appropriate to include in its parliamentary procedure. Today, therefore, the People's Party is voting yes, because it was our demand in the negotiation of the Toledo Pact; it is voting yes, because social dialogue has agreed to it; it is voting yes, because we have managed to have it treated as a bill to further improve this draft, and it is voting yes, because we have all succeeded once again in getting the Government to rectify. This royal decree law which is subject to validation is the best example of this, of your rectification, Minister. If a text is brought to this House today, it is not thanks to President Sánchez or yourself, Mr Escrivá. You came as the great technician and ended up being another puppet to President Sanchez. A minister who asked for political consensus when he was president of the AIReF and who has not spent a single minute talking to the other parliamentary forces. A minister, to whom his ways of managing had cost him the resignation of his two secretaries of state and half-office. It has been the social dialogue that has done the work of the Executive. It was they who sat down to talk about what was best for the self-employed. The interlocutors did their job and you, once again, to see them coming. [[Applauds]] Among all, we have managed to get the government to rectify because in the first proposals made by Minister Escrivá, the self-employed had to pay contributions of EUR 1267 per month. Minister, this is your proposal of 28 February, a real axe to the collective that was not logical, that we could not allow and that we finally managed to correct among all of us. [[shows a statistical table]] Today, three out of four self-employed people will benefit and pay less and have greater social coverage. So, once again, they're only right when they rectify. Ladies and gentlemen, today's text also raises many questions. The first: should we really use an extraordinary and urgent formula such as the royal decree law? This reform is provided for in the Toledo Pact, it was included in the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan, whose agenda they have known - according to the first vice-president - for more than two years. Do you therefore consider this procedure to be truly extraordinary and urgent? Do you think that the main opposition party did not deserve at least one meeting to discuss these measures? It is clear that we understand in a very different way how to do politics. We think of the best for the self-employed and the citizens, and you, the government, think only and exclusively of their survival. But it's just that the little they've done is wrong. Despite passing it by royal decree law, they did so out of time, without complying with the agenda set with Europe, and only a week after doing so they were already correcting it. That is sanchismo, the best example of sanchismo, error after error. The second question is what are you going to do with the regulatory development of this rule, because the fascicles reforms, to which you and the Sánchez Government are accustomed, are worrying. We know what he approves today, but not what he's going to do in the following deliveries. They usually do the easy thing in the first fascicles, and the next thing, God will say. And so it is impossible to talk about the sustainability of the system as a whole. Its reform is long-term, but only reflects the measures of the first phase. What do you have in mind for the second phase, Minister? What will happen if there is no agreement from 2026? This is something we'll have to talk about. Apart from what we approve today, say it, gentlemen of the government: are you going to lower taxes on the self-employed? Are you going to remove the bureaucratic hurdles? Are they going to improve their harmful management of European funds so that they reach SMEs and the self-employed? That would be to think of the self-employed. President Feijóo has made several proposals, but you are at your disposal, which are not the problems of Spain or the Spanish. And they will allow me to tell you some of the measures that would really help the self-employed: lower the IRPF by using the extraordinary collection they are getting; lower the flat rate to 50 euros, as the People's Party did, instead of raising it to 80 euros; equate the subsidies of the larger self-employed; profile the costs of difficult justification of the self-employed; legislate by promoting the competitiveness of businesses and legal certainty. With its bumps and incompetence we head to the second consecutive year losing competitiveness. And you think that's good for the self-employed? I tell you, no, Minister. And reduce, even if only out of empathy, this macro-government, that macro legion of advisors and the totally administrative unproductive spending that is a lot, believe me, minister. [[Applauds]] Finally, the third question I would like to ask you: does this reform improve the sustainability of the public pension system, Minister? The success of Social Security is its sufficiency and sustainability, which generations of the future, i.e. young people, can also enjoy our social model. Minister, answer me: is your reform going to increase long-term spending? Have you forgotten that the goal of our social security system is to vertebrate our welfare system? We advocate a sufficient but also sustainable system, which is what the Constitution commands. You are leading Social Security to a historic debt, spraying the 100 billion euros. Do you think that is sufficient and sustainable, Minister? Ladies and gentlemen, the Sánchez Government is the worst enemy of the autonomous, we know that. This month we have known that 350 self-employment jobs are destroyed a day and that 2022 will be the first year, after ten years, to be lost self-employment and, in the meantime, the Government is on vacation. In the People's Party we know very well that neither families nor businesses close for holidays, even if the President of the Government thinks so. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. We believe in entrepreneurship, growth and competitiveness, and the measures taken by the social partners, not by the Government, can help in this direction. That is why we will support this royal decree we demand its processing as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Cabezón. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u42	Good morning and thank you, President. Firstly, a greeting to the representative of the UPTA Autonomous Association, who is present today in this debate. Thank you and welcome. Welcome, ministers. Good morning. The Socialist Group will vote in favour of the Royal Decree-Law 13/2022, the special scheme for self-employed workers, for many reasons: because it is a historic claim, because it is a necessity for a key and strategic sector of the productive fabric of our country, because it strengthens and protects more than three million self-employed people, because this reform ends with an ineffective and discriminatory system; ineffective because today 84 % - the minister said - of self-employed workers contribute by the minimum base and therefore their pensions have a gap of 43 % compared to wage earners, with an average of EUR 600 per month. These smaller pensions, moreover, lead us to have to supplement them, when we have a negligible cost of €7025 million in the budgets for 2022. Is it discriminatory? I do not know if the citizens' lords have read the law - of course VOX has not read anything - because today an autonomous can contribute for the same quota having yields of 3000 or 30 000 euros. It is therefore discriminatory and ineffective. From 2023 onwards, it is assessed on net income in compliance with the principle of contribution, because the contribution for net income implies decent pensions, and this reform contains sufficient leverage to ensure that these contributions are effective. The Minister has said this: a more just, more agile, more flexible system. With this reform, therefore, we put an end to the fact that contributions are taxed; to contribute is investment of present and future, and decent and sufficient pensions. This reform ensures that not only no one is left behind, but no one is left out of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons to vote in favour - Mrs Arrimadas, before tweeting, the law could be read before. By the way, she's not here, and neither is Mrs. Muñoz. That's ugly! First, because it brings us closer to Europe, and then, because it is a more equitable and just system, because it is a reform agreed in the social dialogue, because it complies with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, because it complies with the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and because it complies with Europe. This government is fulfilling, fulfilling and fulfilling. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform seeks to make each and every one of the more than three million autonomous people, with their names and surnames, feel recognized in the norm. Many of them are women, as well as young women, and it is logical that one in three women earn less than the inter-professional minimum wage. 10% of the self-employed know that they are under the age of 30; 77% of them are also below the minimum inter-professional wage. And let me talk about my town. Let's put three names - Mr. Capdevila, who is also not, put three names -: Julia, beautician of the district of Sant Josep of my city, of L'Hospitalet; Silvia, of the district of Centro, who has a travel agency, or David Torres, young freshly graduated who will be able to combine his opposition with the start of a new consulting activity. With this rule they three and the rest know that, in case of a difficulty, they will have maximum facilities to quote and, above all, they will not have to close the activity, or with the Sectoral RED Mechanism Silvia will be protected their travel agency. With this reform, ladies and gentlemen, all of them, the more than three million autonomous and also the 140 000 Ukrainians in Spain will have greater opportunities to have a vital project. A memory for Ukraine on a very hard day from this rostrum. Do you want more reasons? Because this reform is credible and solvent. And why? Because it captures the experience experienced during the pandemic and definitively consolidates the social shield. Gentlemen of the PP, I have read - and you have just said - that you are going to vote in favour, and look how glad I am. We are glad from the Socialist Group that they will finally be able to clear up their position of conscience with this very important group. [[Applauds]] Because, let's be honest, gentlemen of the PP, you have never done anything for it or for them in the previous financial crisis. They did not take a single measure for the self-employed, on the contrary. I'm sure everyone remembers how taxes went up. The spokesman told me, Montse Mínguez, that how you have the floor to come here and say that you lower taxes, if you have raised them: the IRPF went from 15 % to 21 %, the VAT of the hairdressers - where is Patricia Blanquer?-, of culture, of light. Yes, charge of conscience, because from 2012 to 2018 they only put 11 million euros with the economic panorama that the autonomous had. This is like taking charge of consciousness and something else. What little decency! Because coming here to say what they said... I have no words. [[Applauds]] Look, in this crisis the government of Pedro Sánchez with the social shield provided €7 billion in direct aid and €11,000 in benefits and exemptions from quotas, and as a result they did not lower the blind. The result of all this is that this has allowed us today to have more affiliates and contributors to the RETA than before the pandemic. Can you, gentlemen of the PP, say the same? Can you say that the financial crisis has ended with more autonomous ones in the RETAque before? No, you can't say that because you, with your non-public policies, left more than 500,000 autonomous people in the gutter. Yes, gentlemen of the People's Party, a lot of conscience. Today I listen to his spokesman and the truth is that it is to tear his clothes. Turns out they're asking for something they took away when they ruled. Today you continue to deny everywhere the social shield; a social shield that was a bet decided by Pedro Sánchez in Europe, which is backed by data, which we have justified, and you today deny, gentlemen of the PP, the achievements of this country not only here, but in Europe. Look, before you insult - I gather these words from my partner - and before you lie, remember; before you insult, think; before you criticize, wait, and before you block, covenant. You are not confident, you agree and then you do not comply, and that is a serious problem for Spain. The corporal. I will remind you of the words of Manuel Azaña in 1911, who said that a country is built, not destroyed. The social shield, this way of doing politics for all, is the result of a special way of understanding and loving life, of a deeper stream of ideas, and the socialists say that, moreover, it is the way to set as a common goal the common good of each and every one of us. He ended by congratulating the self-governing associations and, of course, the ministry for the great effort. I think we've given...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u43	Mrs. Perea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u44	Thank you, President, and excuse me. We have given enough reason for everyone to vote in favour, so I expect your affirmative vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2022, OF 1 AUGUST, OF ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF TRANSPORT, IN THE FIELD OF GOODS AND AID TO THE STUDY, ASSOCIATED TO AMOUNT MEASURES, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REDUCTION OF ENERGY DEPENDENCE OF NATURAL GAS. [[File number 130/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u46	We turn to the next item: Royal Decree-Law 14/2022 of 1 August on economic sustainability measures in the field of transport in the field of scholarships and study aid, as well as measures for saving, energy efficiency and reducing energy dependence on natural gas. To present the royal decree law has the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u47	Thank you very much. Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, as the President pointed out, we are presenting to this House and to submit it for validation in this extraordinary plenary the Royal Decree-Law 14/2022 of 1 August, on measures of economic sustainability in the field of transport, on scholarships and study aids, as well as on measures of saving, energy efficiency and reduction of energy dependence on natural gas, following its adoption by the Council of Ministers on 1 August. This Royal Decree-Law is adopted within the framework of the National Plan to Respond to the Economic and Social Consequences of the War in Ukraine. The consequences of this intolerable aggression, which tramples on international law, have seriously altered the world order and are intended to put an end to our model of coexistence in society. This, therefore, required new initiatives capable of coping with them, which meet a threefold objective: to combat price rises, to reduce our energy dependence and to help alleviate the effects of the climate emergency that we suffer. They are, of course, in line with the orientation that the Government had already given to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, one of whose fundamental pillars is the transformation of our economic model and our society under the sign of sustainability. Ukraine's tragedy has reaffirmed this strategy. It is vital that we reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and energy consumption, because this is the only way we can resist the coercion with which Russia, Mr Putin, threatens Europe as a whole. Saving energy benefits everyone, it helps us respond to Putin's energy blackmail, it is a saving for both domestic economies and the industrial fabric, and it is a strategic action in the face of the challenge of climate change. In addition, we want to do so by helping the majority of citizens, who are the main hostages of price escalation. Relieving the cost of moving to your workplace or study is a way to help family economies, as is increasing the amount of scholarships so that many of our young people can continue their studies. Similarly, we are also trying to protect a sector, such as transport, which is vital for our economic recovery and its workers, particularly affected by rising fuel prices. Working for all of them, for those most exposed to the crisis, is the way in which this Government understands politics. Honestly, I think it's the only way to conduct yourself in public life and overcome adversities. At the moment, the main threat to our economy is an outpouring of inflation that affects Europe as a whole and the rest of the world. Since prices began to rise in September last year, we have been pushing for initiatives to alleviate the situation of those most at risk. From that date onwards, from September onwards, we have allocated an amount close to EUR 30 billion to mitigate its impact on families and also on businesses. We are talking about 1.3% of our gross domestic product, the most important resource mobilization of the main countries of the European Union. The measures that we have been taking, and which this royal decree complements, are of great importance as they protect the economic agents most affected by inflation, such as the transport sector, agriculture, fisheries and the most intensive industries in the use of gas and, above all, they protect the people, those who receive non-contributory pensions, those with incomes less than EUR 14,000 per year for which aid of EUR 200 per month has been articulated, or those who receive the minimum vital income, in short, the most vulnerable groups. We have also managed to limit the price of light thanks to the Iberian exception agreed in Brussels for all households receiving the regulated rate. We have established limitations on the rental price. We've reduced taxes on electricity to 5%. We have increased the price of fuels by 20 cents per litre and will encourage public transport with unprecedented actions. That unjust and cruel war must further boost our energy independence, a path that we have already undertaken long before the invasion of Ukraine by playing a leading role in Europe, with the President of the Government at the head, by placing a stake on renewable energies and diversifying our gas supplies. This is to do politics and the best response to those who attack this government. I will then explain to you the three blocks in which this royal decree law is structured and the measures that are most relevant. Firstly, and with regard to economic sustainability measures in the field of transport, the road that has led us to the text that we are discussing today has been long and the result of intense work and, as we shall see below, the result also of intensive dialogue with the road haulage sector. The standard fulfils two key objectives. Firstly, it is decisively addressing the urgent needs of an essential economic sector such as transport, which is hit hard by the increased costs that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has caused in nuclear consignments for its activity. Secondly, it also sets out exceptional measures for the protection of the middle and working class of this country, which is the country that is suffering the most from the effects of the inflationary spiral that we are experiencing. Subsidizing forced and day-to-day mobility is a direct aid that will immediately reach citizens' pockets. It promotes public transport, reaching even free of charge in the case of the nearby rolling stock in Catalonia and half a distance from Renfe, which will reduce the use of the private vehicle and will certainly help to reduce, as I said earlier, our energy dependence and our carbon footprint. In the case of road transport measures this royal decree law is aimed at advancing the economic sustainability of the transport of goods by road ensuring a minimum profitability of work and a fair use of subcontracting, thus following the spirit of the agreements reached with the sector itself, especially during this year. The objective we have set ourselves with this text, among others, is to implement the measures agreed with the sector to improve relations in the transport chain, a great step forward since the transport of goods will henceforth be governed by the same principles as the Food Chain Act. Thus, with this royal decree law we reinforce the position of the effective carrier in order to prevent it from working structurally below the individual costs. In addition, a new call for direct aid to the road transport sector with EUR 450 million is also granted, replicating those already established last March in the Royal Decree-Law 6/2022, including on this occasion to urban buses. In addition, as I said before, in this royal decree we put in place measures to promote public transport, articulating the gratuitousness of the services of proximity, rolling stock and conventional medium distance for recurring users between 1 September and 31 December. The aim of these measures is to promote public transport and reduce the use of the private vehicle, which will help to reduce our energy dependence and, as I said earlier, our carbon footprint. This Royal Decree also contains other technical and safety measures in the air and sea fields which guarantee a higher quality of service to transport users and also improve the safety of crews and passengers. Focusing now on concrete measures, and in the case of road transport measures, I would like to say that it has been necessary to amend nine laws and four royal decrees, which also shows the profound structural revision of this sector that we are dealing with with with this text. Firstly, in the field of land transport, with this new legal text we have laid down provisions for the price of transport to cover the individual costs incurred by the actual carrier in cases where the greatest imbalances in the negotiation occur. We have also collected obligations to reflect in writing the price of transport and related costs, i.e. the actual individual costs incurred by the carrier. And to ensure compliance with these measures, which are essential, a new sanctioning regime has also been included with sanctions of up to EUR 4000 for those who fail to comply with these measures. Added to these nuclear measures, which were the main claim and commitment we made to the carriers, have also been accepted and other complementary measures have been incorporated, such as the Code of Good Business Practices in the Procurement of Land Freight Transport, which also includes commitments for the establishment of maximum levels of subcontracting. The commitments applicable to the procurement of transport through intermediaries providing services through the information society should be laid down. We have also expressly stated the obligation for the Government, after assessing the effectiveness of all these measures implemented, to submit to the General Courts within six months a draft law revising the subcontracting regime for the carriage of goods by road. In addition to these structural measures, a new package of direct aid has been set up for companies carrying goods and passengers on land because of the high dependence on fuel prices. This line, with EUR 450 million, will be distributed by number and type of vehicle, following the spirit of the first aid package. In other words, for heavy goods vehicles an aid of EUR 1250; for light goods vehicles, EUR 500; for buses, EUR 950; for ambulances, EUR 500; for urban buses, EUR 950; for taxis and VTC, EUR 300; and for diesel locomotives, EUR 15 000. It must be said that aid for urban buses is one of the new features of this Royal Decree-Law concerning the package of measures adopted in March and is addressed to companies providing urban or suburban collective public services which are also subject to increased costs. With regard to rail transport, a new package of aid is also set up, which will allocate a maximum of EUR 1.9 million to companies in the sector. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u49	Therefore, the adoption of this royal decree law, ladies and gentlemen, confirms the Government's commitment to an essential sector, adopting structural measures in addition to those already adopted to ensure its sustainability and correct existing asymmetries in it, improving the position and competitiveness of this sector and also guaranteeing the appropriate, dignified working conditions and social protection that drivers deserve. The implementation of these measures was proposed - to be said - through the processing of a draft law, but we reached an agreement with the sector and, given its importance, its urgency and necessity and the situation resulting from the war in Ukraine and its impact on the transport sector, the Government decided to deal urgently with it in the form of the real decree law that we present for validation today, in compliance with the commitment made by the sector. Secondly, by referring now to other measures, the second block of measures of this royal decree law, broadens the Government's commitment to reduce and thus encourage the use of public transport, and does so in a historical and unprecedented manner. Because exceptional moments like the ones we live in require exceptional measures to combat the rise in prices, to reduce our energy dependence and also to facilitate the ecological transition. Public transport is the most efficient alternative to mobility, most environmentally friendly and the most widely used by the middle and working class in this country. Subsidizing this compulsory and daily mobility, essential for going to work or to studies, is a relief for those most affected by the inflationary spiral and also benefits society as a whole; it is a real relief from which they will be able to benefit directly from September 1st, when the vast majority of Spanish and Spanish return to their routine and need this obligatory and usual mobility in their day-to-day life. Are you really aware of what it means for a family with two children, for example, to use the train from outside Madrid to save 600 euros in transport in these four months, or 750 euros in the case of a family in Barcelona, or even 1000 euros in the case of a family in Valencia or Seville? This is precisely what we have achieved with this royal decree law and with the measures that we have proposed, and we have achieved it thanks to the fact that, for each nucleus of neighbourhoods or rolling stock, between 1 September and 31 December, the usual travellers will be able to use these services free of charge, because the usual users of the conventional medium distance will also be able to make their free journeys. [[applause]] And for those who also use the cards of the metropolitan transport consortia, in addition to the 30% subsidy that we have already established in the previous royal decree law, the State assumes the amount that these consortia pay to Renfe for travel in the vicinity and rolling stock provided they undertake to lower the price of their multi-travel titles. In addition, we also introduce other measures for recurring high-speed non-declared public service obligations where travel time is less than 100 minutes and where there is no existing capacity reserve framework agreement, where we include a 50% discount, a measure that mainly affects and benefits internal routes from Castile and León, connections with Madrid from Palencia, Zamora and Burgos, León Valladolid, Ourense Zamora and Huesca Zaragoza. Added to all the above, I also remind you that the measures already taken to ensure that Avant services, PSOs, offer a 50% discount for recurring users are still in place. As you know, we are working to ensure that on September 1st users can benefit from all these bonuses without incident, without queues and without any web collapses. Last Monday, August 8, Renfe opened on its website a register to get free subscriptions of nearby, rolling and mid distance and 50% of Avant services, and record figures were recorded. Since yesterday, which began the sale of tickets, we no longer only talk about registered persons, we talk about citizens who are acquiring their bonds to benefit from these discounts on September 1. We talk that in less than twenty-four hours more than sixty thousand users have already purchased their bonus online, with peaks of more than one hundred bonds issued per minute. In addition, I should like to mention the measures introduced to encourage the use of public transport and its use by ordinary travellers, those who make use of concessions from state bus lines, which will also benefit from a 50% discount, or those for urban and long-distance services, the competence of local authorities and the autonomous communities, to which we allocate the funding, so that they can be reduced by 30%. It is a measure that has also had a great reception and to which more than one hundred and eighty local entities and the whole of the autonomous communities have adhered regardless of their political sign, because they have understood that it is an opportunity to benefit their citizens. In short, as I said, they are unprecedented and exceptional measures to reduce citizens' spending, to bet more than ever on public transport, to fight climate change and to ensure the daily mobility of our citizens in an extraordinary situation resulting from the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its consequences on the cost of living of people. As advanced, the other set of measures in this Royal Decree-Law affecting this ministry concerns the areas of air and sea transport. In the case of air transport, first of all, and in the light of the evolution of the health emergency caused by COVID-19, the Royal Decree-Law eliminates the mandatory application of the operating guidelines linked to the pandemic at airports and provides for recommendations. We are referring to the use of masks, the taking of temperature or the distance glues in the controls. With this modification we follow the steps of the countries of our environment, removing obstacles and thus enhancing the competitiveness of the transport sector and also tourism. The measures referred to were taken by the European Aviation Safety Agency and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. In addition, these measures affecting air transport provide for the possibility for AENA to carry out an extraordinary review of the prices in its works contracts in order to avoid delays in the investments it is making. The text also provides for the participation of AENA in the installation of automated border checkpoints and the recruitment of support services to respond with the best service to the implementation of the regulation, which will strengthen the control of our borders and which will enable the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist and other serious crimes. In the field of maritime transport, among other issues, this royal decree allows for the exception of Ukrainian seafarers from the nationality limitations of ship crews. This measure provides them with the same treatment as Spanish or other nationals of the European Economic Area. There are also other measures within the Royal Decree-Law that affect the area of competence of this department. In the railway field, the framework is articulated to enable the sharing of railway facilities between infrastructure managers of different administrations, such as the State and the autonomous communities. The procedure for payment by the Administration of the amounts of expropriations agreed upon on the basis of due process or by the provincial jurors corresponding to the outstanding records of the highways in liquidation proceedings is also expedited. Finally, with regard to this ministry, the application of the exceptional price review mechanism is clarified, as the impact of the inflationary price escalation has occurred for all types of contracts, including works contracts of less than one year duration, which had been excluded from price review. There is a second block of measures in this Royal Decree Law which corresponds to those already known, the measures on grants and study aid. We are also aware that this economic situation has had a strong impact on families, which has led to a clear need to strengthen the amounts of these scholarships. Our aim is to ensure that the least possible impact on the guarantee of equal opportunities prevents the most vulnerable and already working-age people from leaving their studies. For this reason, an additional amount of EUR 100 per month is fixed for the four-month period between September and December 2022, i.e. EUR 400 in total for all persons receiving grants, grants and grants from the call for scholarships of a general nature for the 2022-2023 academic year for students undergoing post-compulsory studies and from the call for grants for students with a specific need for educational support for the 2022-2023 course. The Government will allocate EUR 400 million to finance this aid. The amount of aid has been calculated with the expectation of reaching a million beneficiary students in the next course. In fact, this call has hit the record of applications with more than 1.36 million, 130,000 more than in the previous one. In order to meet these needs, the Government has allocated EUR 2134 million this year to the record number of scholarships, to which we must add - I insist - these EUR 400 million which provides for this measure. Finally, a third bloc aims at energy saving and efficiency measures as a solidarity response with the rest of the European Union to reduce dependence on Russian gas. These measures form part of the European Union's unanimous, solidarity and flexible response to Putin's energy blackmail following the aggression against Ukraine. Because Europe needs our help, it needs to strengthen the mechanisms to get that energy to all our European neighbours, and Spain must also be supportive. In this regard, a European regulation was adopted at the end of July at the Council of Energy Ministers of the European Union, which, under the principle of solidarity, sets out an objective of saving the natural gas consumption of the Member States, to which all European countries have committed themselves. This objective may become binding if the situation at European level worsens. That is why we must be prepared. The way to achieve these objectives is by strengthening savings and being more efficient in our consumption. In other words, we must have greater responsibility for what we consume and facilitate access to the energy we produce, especially with the provision of our gas infrastructure. To this end, we are drawing up - as you know - a contingency plan, a plan for which proposals have been requested from energy operators, domestic and industrial consumers, administrations and parliamentary groups. This contingency plan will be completed by the end of September as a European commitment. However, action must already be taken by integrating energy savings and efficiency measures for the transition to renewable energy and as solidarity - I insist - with Europe. In this way, this royal decree law is a first step for energy saving and efficiency in air conditioning. This is the first step in the framework that will be reflected in the contingency plan. The provision affects - you already know - administrative buildings, commercial and cultural spaces; we talk about the large warehouses, hotels, cinemas and infrastructures intended for the transport of travellers, such as train stations, buses or airports; neither monuments nor public lighting are included. In these buildings, first of all, in general and with the exception of the exceptions provided for, for example, in the area of safety and health, heating must be maintained in winter at a maximum of 19 degrees and cooling in summer at a minimum of 27. Second, turn off the window lights from 10 o'clock at night. Both measures, thermostats and showcases, came into force on the seven calendar days from the day following the publication of this royal decree law and will have effect until the next day 1 November 2023. Third, keep the doors of the premises closed when the air conditioning or heating is running. This measure must be complied with by 30 September. And, fourthly, make an extraordinary review of air conditioning and hot water facilities, boilers and thermal facilities if the last one was before January 2021. In this case, it must be done before 1 December 2022. Information should also be posted to reflect the improvements adopted, an issue that will come into force after one month from the day of publication of this royal decree law, which will be in force until 1 November 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures are already being implemented and, thanks to the collective effort, we have already managed to reduce energy consumption by 9.5% in the last week and 8.5% in comparison with 2021. It is a sign of the commitment of the citizenry to these saving measures that, far from having a sanctioning character, ladies and gentlemen, what they seek... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u50	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I must ask you again to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u51	He said that it is a sign of the citizen's commitment to these saving measures, which, far from being punitive, they seek to mentalise citizens about the importance of making prudent use of energy. We must continue to bet on saving, in short, on European solidarity. On the other hand, the adoption of these measures must be done in response to the appropriate flexibility to ensure the rules on working conditions or specific requirements in those centres for which it is necessary. Also, the energy saving plan of the State General Administration, adopted in May, includes the promotion of teleworking and was strongly recommended to the rest of the administrations and to the companies that re-implement it. As is well known, during the pandemic, energy consumption in transport and in the air conditioning of work spaces was reduced. All these measures therefore contribute to the common effort. It is necessary to thank the effort and commitment at a time of difficulty for Europe, and it is worth noting that these efficiency measures will also benefit the economy. In particular, limiting winter heating to a maximum of 19 degrees and cooling to 27 degrees in summer means that each temperature-changing degree can save 7% of consumption. This means, for example, that with these measures a chain of hotels and restaurants, such as Paradores, with ninety-seven hotels and over one hundred restaurants, would save more than EUR 1 million a year on the energy bill. Another approved impact measure aims to ensure that administrations accelerate their investments in energy efficiency immediately. To this end, we have agreed to expedite the procedures of the Public Sector Contracts Act. The goal is for public buildings to be adapted as soon as possible to be more efficient. These would include works on energy rehabilitation, installation of lighting systems that consume less, promotion of self-consumption or replacement of old air conditioning systems by others that use renewable sources. In addition, the energy aid package also introduces technical measures aimed at further strengthening and facilitating self-consumption, speeding up installation times and facilitating the return of energy that has not been consumed to the grid. Finally, proposals are included to facilitate the evacuation of renewable gases into the gas system and measures are also included to allow, as a matter of urgency and immediately, the incorporation of storage into wind and photovoltaic technology generation facilities to provide the necessary flexibility for these sources of generation and to facilitate their integration into the system. I shall now finish my speech, ladies and gentlemen, and it is clear from the Government that we have a firm commitment to recovery, we have a firm commitment to the future and we have a commitment to citizenship, and we are doing so. The Initiatives that contemplate this royal decree law address problems of enormous importance to this country. I am talking about the social and economic emergencies of an energy crisis that is hitting families and businesses, the urgent need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels to cope with Putin's blackmail, to show our solidarity with the whole of the European Union and at the same time to combat the great threat of climate change. Such significant issues must be such as consensus and not obstructive and disloyal attitudes. They demand that the general interest not be subordinated to party conveniences. Some groups may be tempted to overthrow this decree by believing that this weakens the Government. In fact, those who would be beating would be millions of citizens who use public transport on a daily basis and would be deprived of direct help to cover their daily mobility. [[Applauds]] Those who would be harming are also the passenger and freight transport companies, the self-employed carriers, who would see their just aspiration not to be forced to work below cost, and thousands and thousands of our young people who need to supplement their scholarships in order to continue their studies. Think of them when they vote, think also of the effects that these measures have already produced. They are not wishes, they are evidence, energy consumption has already been reduced by around 10%; the gas cap - which the President of the Government obtained from the European Union - has allowed the Spanish to save around €1400 million per day since its implementation in June; Spain today pays electricity at prices between two and three times less than the main European countries pay. What shows the savings in consumption that we are recording is that citizens are responsible and supportive, just the opposite of the right-wing formations of this House. That's another piece of evidence. There are two types of conservatism, retrograde and negationist... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u52	Quiet, please! Wait a minute, Minister. I'm asking you to be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u53	There are two types of conservatism, retrograde and negationist, which sit between us, and the modern European right, which where it governs is taking measures similar to ours. [[Applauds]] Because this royal decree law is Europe, it is commitment and it is European solidarity, it is efficiency and it is common sense, the same as it applies in the rest of the countries in our environment and which this government and our president is so often leading. Think well of the meaning of your vote. Is it not strange, therefore, that the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, congratulates these actions and the most critical right wing in Europe? So I am going to address the majority opposition party, the People's Party, and I am going to ask you to reconsider, to explain well to whom you are defending, because this government is defending our country from the increasingly pressing climate change and its consequences, protecting its citizens from the blackmail of Putin, defending citizens from the escalation of prices caused by the war in Europe, and today I am also here defending the parties that are trying to leave them without these aid so as to try to overthrow this government. [[Applauds]] Think about it, think about it, because you are still in time to change the meaning of the vote you have announced, you are still in time not to disappoint the Spaniards and to live up to what this country needs. Today they have to decide and demonstrate whether they support the Spanish and the Spanish, if they support these measures, the EUR 400 for our young people, in order to have a study aid; they have to decide and demonstrate whether they support the freeness of the nearby and mid-distance subsidies for the workers; they have to decide whether they support this aid of the EUR 400 million of direct aid for the transporters. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with what face will you tell the citizens that they do not support these measures? On the 1st of September - the spokesman minister said the other day - will they dare to go to Sants and Atocha to tell the young people that, apart from giving up that grant supplement, they will have to give up enjoying the gratuitousness of their journeys because it seems to them a frivolous measure? Are you going to dare to tell your European partners that they do not support energy solidarity measures? I will even tell you something else - and I refer to Mr Feijóo - will you dare to tell the President of the Community of Madrid that she cannot apply the extraordinary discount, which she criticized but which also hastened to announce this month of August as a great measure? Honestly, even if it's only because of this and because citizens actually show that they care little, they vote in favour of the validation of this law. And, besides - you know - we are open to improving the text. So many so that, once validated, we will also vote in favour of its processing as a bill, because we are a government that dialogues. Yes, we are a government that seeks consensus and, as a result, we have reached agreements that in this legislature are allowing us to move towards a more committed, fairer, more egalitarian society, despite efforts to prevent it from the right-wing bench. So, what excuse do you have now? Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament have concluded. As the President of the Government said in the debate on the state of the nation, no one can predict the future with certainty, but that does not mean that we just have to wait for that future to come. This Government has not had an easy one. We have acted forcefully in the face of the biggest health crisis we have faced, and we are now doing so in the face of inflation. Many things have to be done and this government is going to go for all, we will go for all to protect our citizens, our businesses, our industry, and that is why I ask the House once again to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree law. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u55	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, the truth is that your erratic energy policy is so indefensible and what this royal decree contains that it seems logical that you have fled from giving face to the Spaniards for the defense of a royal decree that is primarily yours. [[Applauds]] It is a powerful call to our attention, but it is undoubtedly the best symptom of how the failure of an energy policy that brings the Spaniards to ruin. On the other hand, Minister of Transport, allow me to begin by reminding and transferring solidarity to all the wounded who were travelling on that train, who do not know why, but you have given no explanation, was circulating by fire. I think it would have been good if you had given your face here today and given the explanations to a clear question, and it is: what was a train doing running in the middle of a fire? Why did he leave and why was he there? [[Applauds]] And let me also convey the greatest recognition to the driver who, without a doubt, avoided a misfortune of more consequences. This royal decree must be contextualized in the current economic situation in our country. Today, the Spaniards have suffered the biggest price rise in the last forty years. Today the CPI is at 10.8%, in an unprecedented climb that is suffocating all Spanish families; in this we are leaders in Europe. In addition, it has been the worst month of July in terms of the destruction of employment and the loss of social security membership in years, and what is announced by August, even by the Government itself, is equally negative. In unemployment we are also leaders in Europe. The public debt has been shot at 30 billion since you ruled, and it continues on an unstoppable escalation. In the increase of debt we double the average of Europe. Families, self-employed people and businesses have to bear behind them the most expensive, inefficient and insolidary government of Spanish democracy, because it forces us to make adjustments to everyone, while the government, from Sanchez to the last of its ministers, does absolutely none. [[Applauds]] These are the accounts; the rest are stories and propaganda. [[Applauds]] These are the data that show that their economic policy is a failure and a burden for the Spaniards, because, if other countries are better than Spain, they have less inflation, they have less debt and they pay less taxes being also more dependent on Russia from the energy point of view, Spain does not have to resign. We are no worse off than the rest of the Europeans, what happens to us is that we have the worst government in Europe. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, it is indeed necessary to take action in the face of Putin's invasion of Ukraine. We are perfectly aware of this and we are extremely concerned that the worst may still be coming and Putin can increase his extortion of Europeans, especially those who are inexplicably increasing their dependence on gas. That is why the right policies are necessary, and the data show that theirs are not, and we do not support what we know is that they are not solutions, that they are patches, and that they also have negative medium- and long-term consequences for Spanish society. For this reason, since we were aware of the energy measures, my party has made it clear that we could not adopt them, but that we were willing to negotiate with the Government serious savings measures in the face of the challenge we face. To do serious things they have the hand of the People's Party; to misguided improvisations, to order and command, no more advance than not. However, in order to carry out negotiations we must also call the People's Party and we must sit with it, for which we have not received a single call. Indeed, within the European framework, an energy saving policy, a regulation, has been adopted which aims to save gas to save the winter and which the government must adapt, to what? The Spanish reality, speaking with Spanish society. Energy saving plans are needed for this, but good energy saving plans, not any energy saving plan. That is why we have been asking them for alternatives from the minute on, and we have been willing to talk about it. And I repeat, not a single call; many insults, yes, but not a single call. Madam Minister, you are starting from an initial error in dealing with everything that has to do with energy saving, because every plan must seek a balance between energy saving and maintaining economic activity and creating jobs, especially in a recession scenario like the one intuited and that Spain is still in time to avoid. And that is something that you have absolutely ignored in this royal decree law, because to do so the first thing you have to do is to talk to all the sectors involved and you have not spoken to anyone at all. With that, you are the one who binds to improvisation is imposition. There is one thing they have to answer to Spanish society, and that is that if Europe sets out measures that must be recommendations and until March 2023, why do you bring us impositions and until November 2023? Eight more months! Can you explain it to us? Because the Spaniards still don't know about this. For the rest of Europe, energy saving measures are also essential recommendations. On the other hand, as I repeat, what they bring us here are impositions and prohibitions. All this is accompanied by a sanctioning regime that can be carried forward by many self-employed people, many SMEs and some companies that fail to comply with these requirements. If they went out a little further on the street - I understand they can't step on it -, this would be very clear, because any trader in any corner of Spain explains it with all common sense and is quickly understood. In short, this royal decree is a perfect compendium of all the abuses and contempt of this government towards Spanish society and towards this House. I'll explain. We are talking about the royal decree law 129, that is, you go at a speed of every eleven days, a royal decree law. And you know why they do it in this case? Because if it were a bill it would have to include an economic memory and, therefore, it would be clear and evident the economic deterioration that many of these measures are going to cause hundreds of thousands of traders. [[Applauds]] And, obviously, there we are not going to be doing harm when it can be avoided. And don't be confused, the savings that the Spaniards are making because they can't afford to pay the energy at these prices is not the result of the measures of this royal decree law. A respect for the situation that the Spaniards are going through! Secondly, you repeat the modus operandi that you already have used to, that is, sharpening the problems that the Spaniards have and then, through the following royal decree law, trying to remedy. Because, for example, when you received the government of this country the dependence on Russian gas was 0%; however, your policy has been to increase dependence. Something we didn't have, now we have it, and therefore you are aggravating the situation, because an energy saving plan has to be aimed at saving to reduce our dependence on Russia. And what is the value of all that effort and sacrifice that you ask of the Spaniards simultaneously increase our dependence on Russia? There's the key and there's one of the issues of this failure. [[Applauds]] We are now more dependent on Russian gas and are therefore more vulnerable. And you know why? For the situation that you yourselves have created in relation to Algeria. And there you have one of our proposals, re-establish the position and the situation with a country on which we depend on everything that has to do with energy. With the alibi of the problem that you yourself have aggravated, you feel authorized to impose your criteria unilaterally, and this is what is in this royal decree law. They pass over the affected sectors, with whom they do not speak; they pass over the autonomous communities, who have competence in trade regulation; they pass over the government's alternative, to which they do not even listen or call, that is, insult it, and pass over other laws that you have an obligation to apply. Minister, even if you don't speak, they're no longer worth an apology. Are you going to assume the failure of the Iberian exception, which has not prevented us today from paying four times as much for the light as we did a year ago? It is 312 euros megawatt hour today, while last year we were in 92, while we are subsidizing French consumers with more than 330 million euros since this measure came into force, 10 million yesterday. By the way, this subsidy that we are giving to the French makes more gas being consumed, but at the expense of the very effort that the companies and the Spanish are making. [[Applauds]] I invite the Spaniards to look at their last bill and see a new cost. It is called the adjustment mechanism of Royal Decree-Law 10/2022, where you will find increases that may be between 25 and 33 or 44% in relation to invoices before the entry into force of the Iberian exception, and there they are. They will remember that at the time we asked the President of the Government a series of questions he never answered, but today the Spanish can find perfectly the answers in their invoices. One of the questions was: Are we going to finance the gas for the French, the Portuguese and the Moroccans? The answer is yes, to the French and to over 330 million for two months. [[A honourable Member: What a barbarity!-Applause]] Who's going to pay the Iberian exception? So let's go to the bills, and I'll give you two examples: an invoice that has been increased from 2300 euros to 3597. [[shows two bills of receipt of light]] What is the difference in what concept? In the cost of the Iberian exception, here, on the Spanish invoices; and another invoice that has gone from 60 000 to 96 951, of a SME that is also paying the Iberian exception. Obviously, this is a great lie that you have hidden from the Spaniards, but today you can see, you can read, and you have to pay in the day to day of the Spaniards. [[applause]] You boast that the recommendations for reducing gas consumption for Spain are 7% compared to 15% for the rest of Europe. Is it really worth you guys? This lower reduction is because we are better prepared, because a Government of Spain, the Government of Spain from 1996 to 2004, planned - and this is the word, planned - the infrastructures that diversify the supply of gas to Spain, preventing us from relying on a single supplier. Like the six regasifiers and the two gas pipelines that you found available, you demonize them, I fully understand that you cannot come out here, after all you have said, to defend today gas pipelines and regasifiers, because you have demonized them.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u56	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u57	I'm finishing up. Correction. One of the pipelines, because the other was closed by the Government of Sánchez's brilliant economic diplomacy in relation to Algeria. [[Applauds]] Planning, Mrs Ribera, in front of your intransigence. There is our proposal and we are ready to contribute. Which one is it? We need maximum capacity, and this is understood by everyone, it's common sense. To this end, let us put all the technologies available in our country to work to the maximum of their capacity to ensure an adequate and affordable energy supply. This is the proposal, and what you have to do for that is to put aside ideology, sectarianism and start thinking about what the Spaniards need.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u58	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u59	It's over now. Finally, with regard to social measures, we are presented with a real decree which is a mix of different proposals. They are two distinct parts that should be two texts, not one. What are you looking for? In the face of its parliamentary minority, blackmailing the rest of the parliamentary groups with some social cutting measures that guarantee support for adherence to measures that are bad for the Spanish economy, and that is where we cannot be. But we have been asking them for months, weeks, to separate the two royal decrees that would count on our support, and that if the votes they had were insufficient and caused them to decline, they would withdraw the vote and, therefore, bring tomorrow those measures that you have told us about: land transport, both private and public, subsidies, aids, complements, and I guarantee you that the People's Parliamentary Group would vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u60	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u61	But I will also tell you that it is full of shortcomings and discrimination. The aid for rail transport is very good, but, Minister, what about Spain, which is moving day by day in collective road passenger transport? Doesn't Spain exist? Does not Spain exist for the towns and medium-sized towns, which you forget? [[Applauds]] They must also have the support of his Government. 53% of national long distance travellers use the bus, do you know why? Because most of the population centers do not have railway services, and this is what fails and this is what is missing. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. He rejected the measures proposed by a government whose management, as I have so many times denounced in this House, undermined Spain's energy sovereignty; eliminated coal, our only indigenous fossil fuel, which contrasts with the worldwide increase in its price and consumption; deserts the mining basins, the case of Asturias, skimming socio-economic alternatives; and provoked the anger of Algeria, our main supplier of gas, after the pirouette of Pedro Sánchez with the Sahara, which will take advantage of other European countries for years. With this royal decree, the product of an ecological fundamentalism that impoverishes and ruins society, consumers and industry, the government that promised to lower the receipt of light sharpens energy chaos in one of the moments of greatest uncertainty and economic precariousness in recent decades. Hence my vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The minister said in her speech that these measures are the ones that are being adopted by the right-wing governments in the rest of Europe, so you will have to ask whether it is the government of the Socialist Party and Podemos that is doing right-wing policies or the same is the rest of Europe that is doing left-wing policies, which, of course, is not the best argument. [[applause]] We have all been drawn to our attention - do not think it was an exception, Mrs Gamarra - that the Minister of Transport and not the Minister of Ecological Transition defended this decree. And that, why has it been done? That's very simple. When the president of the government announced this decree a month ago, we all remember that he said that if one took off the tie in Spain, the problems would be solved to the citizens. He said that frivolity, and, of course, if it were as simple as if we took off our tie here and solved the problems, obviously we would all do it. That does not solve anything, but then riding in a helicopter, even less, because on top there is no example. These measures, of course, do not solve the problems, and you have come out here today because you believe that the most socially viable measure is that of transport. It is very easy to say - and they have already said it seven hundred times -: Go to Sants station or to Madrid, etc., and tell people... And why don't you go to the station in Cuenca, to the station of, I don't care, Soria or Pamplona, to say the same thing? Because they're places where those nearby trains don't exist and because you can't do that demagogy. You know that without talking to people you can't force the shops, which are so hard to put the temperature 27 degrees or putting it in winter at 19, and on top of having to do works in your business, as at the time had to do already with the subject of tobacco, and in the end ended up paying the traders. Most of these measures are demagogic, and as simple as saying that you don't want to help with 100 euros, for example, on scholarships, would be to submit an amendment and instead of 100 euros, that is 200. Are you going to vote for or against, if instead of 100 we say it's 200? If you vote against, we'll say you don't want to help the students. This is therefore a government that should be more serious. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u66	Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I will tell you why this decree, this multi-decree, does not serve the Canary Islands, which is what all the canaries think and what all the parties think, including Podemos, who has taken the deal, and that is what many PSOE mayors think that they have manifested themselves, not the government because the government lowers their pants with Pedro Sánchez. It doesn't work for Canarias - and I'm going to start with the topic of transport - because in Canarias there are no nearby trains; in Canarias there are guaguas and there is a Santa Cruz-La Laguna tram, which is like the nearby ones in Madrid, and the canaries we are going to pay one hundred percent - one hundred percent - of what those in Madrid are going to do nearby ones. And since there are no trains in the Canary Islands, they have asked all the Canary Islands institutions to pay 100 percent of the tram and the long-distance guaguas. Second, in the Canary Islands there is no gas - there is no gas -, there is no heating in winter, because the average in winter is 23 or 24 degrees. In the Canary Islands there is no air conditioning. In the houses there is no air conditioning, there is in the small shops and on the large surfaces, on which I will not enter. It gets nothing more than the days of calima, which used to be four days a year and now we have eight, because the days of calima are 29 or 30 degrees. And you know what you do? It's getting a few hours of air. But now you, before December 30th, are forcing Canary merchants and small businesses in the Canary Islands to do a work that costs 3000 euros to close everything, because as winter is for heating... Even if the Government of Spain does not know, the Germans know it and everyone knows it. Another of the advantages, the reduction of VAT. In the Canary Islands there is no VAT. Tell that to the Secretary of State for Relations with the Courts, who always forgets. You've made a trap, you've brought all these measures together to blackmail. If they had brought fifteen decrees, we might have voted ten in favour, but in this we are against, and they are against Podemos, the nationalists, the PP, VOX and the citizenry. Learn what the Canary Islands is. And if they wanted to change the decree, because it deals with it as a bill, we have fifteen decrees paralyzed here two years ago without dealing with it as bills. Finally, if they wanted to improve the issue of the Canary Islands, as some of the interlocutors who call us 24 hours before the vote say, at the Council of Ministers forty-eight hours ago the subsidy for transport would have changed and the electricity issue would have changed. By the way, in El Hierro...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u68	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u69	I'm on my way. In El Hierro they are laughing, because most of the summer have been one hundred percent with renewables, and those of El Hierro also force them to do the work, for example, to the chiringuito that is in La Restinga, because it has air conditioning and puts it on the days of calufa. Less Falcon, less photos and work on my land. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u71	Thank you, President. First of all, it must be said that this style of your omnibus decrees is very tricky, because today's holder is the decree of energy saving and, however, within they put 13 billion for the electrics or the rescue of the radial highways of Madrid, which leads us to vote that not, although with energy saving, of course, we agree. [[The Lord]] However, on the text of the decree, it should be noted that it continues with a very serious diagnostic error. For example, a very concrete one. The word Russia appears thirty-three times and yet there is no reference to the peak of oil, to the depletion of fossil fuels or to the crisis and the climate emergency, zero references to these deep, deep and deep aspects. This would lead us to think, according to the text of the decree, that the energy problem is only with gas and that it is only related to war and that, therefore, if peace were signed tomorrow, which would be enormous and good news, this would end. And no, the energy crisis would remain open, because it is pre-war with Ukraine and because it is deeper. Volatility, rise and crisis of supplies of diesel or agricultural fertilizers predates Russia's war against Ukraine. We are facing a structural crisis, a major energy downturn, because the oil peak has been reached, and this the Government seems to ignore. I finish with a significant detail. I mentioned a moment ago that the decree did not mention the climate crisis. The climate is mentioned on a single occasion, in paragraph 8, but in a totally opposite sense, when it is said that the good weather conditions of the Spanish State will allow to attract the tourism of recreational aircraft, airplanes and ultralight aircraft. So, on the one hand, it is the decree of energy saving, that is, that the air conditioning must be lowered, with which we agree, but, on the other hand, tourism is encouraged and the consumption of fossil fuels is encouraged, in this case, with airplanes. This is an absolute nonsense and it would be better to have an integral and deep decarbonization plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u72	Thank you. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u73	Thank you. Egun on. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, today we will vote in favour of this royal decree, first of all for responsibility to citizens and to the planet, and also for responsibility with the consequences of not doing so. And secondly, because we share the two pillars that underpin it: the need to reduce unorbited energy consumption and boost public transport by making it accessible and affordable for all citizens. There are two issues we want to remember. The Ecological Movements and the social forces, together with the political forces on the left, have for many years been warning of what could happen to continue with the current system, years warning that to continue along this path, to continue trying to grow and grow, and to produce and produce, and to consume and consume without limit, the limits would be abruptly set by the planet itself. Well, here we are. The time has come that many of us wanted to avoid while the vast majority of you looked elsewhere or, even worse, denied it, because extreme weather events, the depletion of raw materials, energy chaos, destitution, pandemics, droughts, air quality, the destruction of ecosystems and species, the accumulation of wealth through raw materials, all of this, the climate, social and economic collapse is not a consequence of a war, ladies and gentlemen, it is a consequence of the system itself, of the neoliberal system that has been feeding for decades. And now what we have is reality, here we have it: end of abundance and collapse. This is the reality that we are facing, a reality that has come and caught us up with our duties without doing, because the war in Ukraine, yes, has accelerated certain aspects of this brutal ecological and energy crisis, but the problem, the emergency, already existed before the war, and in the face of that emergency there are no patches. We therefore ask that, in addition to timely and temporary measures, much bolder structural and permanent measures be taken. Yes, we are aware that we will have to do a lot of pedagogy to make society as a whole aware of the magnitude of what we must face, but we will have to do so, because we are no longer in a desirable situation for the ecological, energy and economic transition, we are faced with an urgent need to develop it because it will depend on the life and social well-being of the population. The Paris or Glasgow climate summits, sold as major climate milestones, defined certain goals that are not even being met; virtually no state in the world is taking action to do so. But the reality today is that those objectives that have not been met by all the countries of the world are not even enough. The climate emergency is accelerating so much and it is generating changes at such a rate that either we move immediately and decisively and we already transform our models of production, energy consumption and climate, or we will go to hell; yes, to hell, ladies and gentlemen. It's so raw. Either we begin to be aware of what is to come and act accordingly, or in a very short time there will be no turning back. And yes, it is up to the public representatives, those who govern and those who legislate, to live up to what the moment requires, and this responsibility must be above electoral and political calculations. We will have to take measures that will not please everyone and that will generate contradictions and even fear in part of society until we acquire the climate consciousness we need, but we will have to do so. Therefore, as we repeat incessantly, structural measures are needed to initiate the necessary change of course and paradigm, a new paradigm that takes into account the limits of the planet and its resources, that recovers the local scale from globalization, that recovers sustainable and close production methods, that use resources and raw materials in an equitable, fair and public way to ensure the social well-being of citizens. We know that these are great challenges, that they will not be met overnight, and that is why it is necessary to start it already and that is why during the discussions on this royal decree we have agreed with the Government to act with a medium- and long-term look that will allow us to undertake changes and take deeper measures, beyond the temporary measures contained in this decree. First, we have agreed that by the year 2023 they will be revised upwards, reformulated and accelerated the objectives set out in the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. The review will increase the ambition of the objectives set out in the law, as well as accelerate the achievement of those objectives, providing for the necessary investments to do so. Secondly, with the same aim of deepening climate and energy transition policies, we are committed to starting to study and plan with the autonomous communities medium- and long-term strategies that progressively and include all sectors transform production and consumption models into actions that prioritise reduction, efficiency and transition to renewable energy in both production methods and productive sectors as well as in social and public consumption habits. We hope to be able to extend the scope of transition policies to all sectors, both public and private, and to deploy more efficient policies towards the new energy and ecological model. As I said, we are going to vote in favour of this decree, which will also be dealt with as a bill, so that certain issues that can and must be improved can be corrected, but we also want to warn the Government that the lack of dialogue with the autonomous communities and groups of this House - dialogue initiated at the last minute and once the decree is approved by the Council of Ministers - is not the best formula to fatten the plurinational and progressive majority of this Congress. This is the first package of energy and ecological transition measures for many others that we will have to take. We are all aware of this, and the following measures, like these, can only be adopted with the concurrence of the progressive forces that we are willing to address this ecological challenge from ambition and urgency.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u74	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u75	I'll be right out. Thank you. The right, installed in its climate negationism, is neither expected nor expected. If it were for them, in a short time there would be no decent lives to enjoy or planet to live on. That is why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, do things right, dialogue, listen and agree. Hard times are coming and we must all be up to it, yes, but the first responsible must be you. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u76	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u77	Thank you, President. Egun on. It is a decree law colloquially referred to as the energy saving decree, resulting from Europe's decision to reduce the demand for gas by around 15% between 1 August 2022 and 31 March 2023 and that in the case of Spain it is located at 7% because it depends to a lesser extent on Russian gas and because it has regasifiers that allow to buy LNG from other suppliers, although, without embargo and taking advantage of this situation, it contains or mixes these measures with others that have little or nothing to do with the energy saving measures, such as the grants or the transport bonds, various reforms, including the modification of the quotaization of the self-employed workers - which, by the way, has just been discussed - to correct errors in an unequal treatment for some collectives, or measures in the field of air transport by eliminating the obligation of the restrictions of the pandemic to speed up the operation of the airports, while measures in the field of maritime transport - which, by the way, this decree has just been discussed - to continue these measures adopted by different authorities, or measures in the form of legislation, without regulations, without regulations, without regulations, without regulations, without regulations or regulations, without regulations, without regulations. For example, they now give flexibility to public administrations by allowing certain works contracts to be covered by the negotiated procedure without advertising, by modifying grants with a supplement of EUR 100 for four months, or by increasing by 50 %, to 100 %, the transitional reductions in certain multi-travel titles, which, as we said, do not include all these titles and, of course, benefit in different percentages and certain persons, but not on the basis of income, necessity or other criteria, but on the basis of who has the competence or the type of transport available to them. These measures, of course, we believe, should be much more focused and more selective if they are to be efficient. Today we are once again presented with a decree on which it is difficult to vote against, basically because of the package of economic aid which contains not only for consumers but also for those sectors which are greatly affected by the rise in prices, as well as to meet the objectives set by Europe in terms of energy saving and which involve an extension of obligations in terms of temperatures, also marked by the regulation of technical installations for buildings, as well as measures for the deployment of renewables. And in this sense once again they put us in the disjunctive altogether or nothing; in short, once again they transfer us to the rest of the parliamentary groups the responsibility for whether or not the decree is validated, whether or not there is a battery of aid, a strategy that has already been quite common, when it does not have an absolute majority. We repeat it to you again, do not wait at the last moment and do not tempt luck, because someday the accounts will not come out. You have also told the groups today to think about people, but you must also think about parliamentary groups, because the measures of the rest of parliamentary groups can be good; not all of us are negatists, not all of us are educated, as if to put forward some extravagant things. We can agree with the substance of the decree, but not with the forms and this is what we have been criticizing. The Government had designed a road map on this subject without talking to the self-governments, the municipalities or the sectors concerned and, therefore, it has been shown that consensus has not been sought between the administrations, which are also the ones who have to ensure that the objective of a 7% reduction in energy expenditure is met by Europe. In addition, it is the autonomous communities that have to implement the measures, and yet, only when the criticisms rain, the a posteriori Government calls them to account for the decree, but without being able to make any claim, when many, such as, for example, Euskadi, already had an energy saving plan with a series of measures that will come into force in September and even go beyond what is proposed in this decree. This is a definition and design of measures, as I have said, outside the autonomous communities, because in many cases it does not take account of their competence. But it is also autonomy that not only has to implement and materialize the proposed measures, but it must monitor and sanction, and in the latter we also disagree, because, although we understand that the control of energy expenditure is essential, we do not know or do not know how the Executive intends to enforce the regulations, and we also believe that society is mature enough and responsible to act responsibly. My group, of course, is more in favour of incentive measures to comply with them than of coercive or punitive measures, and it has already been shown in Euskadi, for example, that energy consumption and water consumption can be reduced without any sanction. Nor should it be forgotten that this decree contains a battery of measures to reduce energy consumption but must be part of a much more ambitious contingency plan, which must be referred to Europe, and that it must be worked together with administrations and industry, which is the big gas consumer. It is a contingency plan that must be agreed, dialogue and based on the concept of co-governance, which means sharing and working together. Now, we are glad that the ministry has opened, that it is committed to reaching consensus with the autonomous communities. In fact, it has already requested that certain proposals from the autonomous communities be referred to this contingency plan, because the truth is that we must also move forward and work on other actions to reduce consumption that go beyond air conditioning, such as water consumption, recycling of materials, mobility and awareness of the citizenry in order to improve consumption habits or energy efficiency of the household, as well as to develop guidelines for the energy transition for companies, because reducing consumption, in addition to saving energy, leads to savings in the electricity bill. In short, these are measures in three areas: administration, business and citizenship, such as accompanying municipalities and local entities for the preparation of energy audits, encouraging the implementation of municipal climate and energy plans, speeding up management and investment in efficiency and rehabilitation, as well as renewables, or encouraging the massive increase of renewable self-consumption in both companies and households, or also advising in energy communities, and even encouraging proposals such as interruptibility as a management mechanism in a situation of potential supply risk, as well as talking about cogeneration, a technology that we believe needs to be considered within the scheme of action in a situation of alert, while correcting certain elements that currently make the operation of these plants economically impossible. Today it is up to us to be responsible and constructive and that is why we are going to support this decree, because we understand that the measures must be implemented immediately in order to be able to meet the objectives set by Europe, because this contingency plan will reflect the contributions of the autonomous communities and because we cannot leave certain groups and sectors without economic aid in a complicated economic context. We are told that the Government is opening up to process this decree as a bill so that improvements can be made, but the truth is that we doubt a little bit of this procedure because there are already many decrees that have to be processed by this procedure and yet they are stalled.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u78	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u79	On the other hand, in our view, it is perhaps better to apply the provisions of this decree immediately and safely and to have, yes, a contingency plan agreed with autonomous communities and sectors, with agreed measures to reduce consumption and reduce the impact of prices in a context in which the energy crisis does not seem to give signs of cession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u80	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Vice-President, today we are debating the actual decree-law on energy saving measures theoretically to reduce energy consumption, as some countries of the European Union are also doing; a vote which seems to be of the utmost importance. And this should be a debate in which there really would be an option to debate, to counter ideas and to add to such an important problem that it is hitting all the countries in our environment. In Spain, however, the Government does so as always, by decree, without having the opposition either with the autonomous communities or with the municipalities or with the autonomous and the enterprises affected by their measures. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are aware of the crisis that is going on throughout Europe, of the difficult winter that is coming, but we are also aware of the harsh summer in many territories of our country, this harsh summer which makes it very difficult for high temperatures not to be able to avoid consuming more energy by many citizens. We need to be prepared for whether Putin is cutting off the gas supply, but we also need to remember today that we not only have that problem, but that the situation has been aggravated by the disastrous foreign policy that this Government has carried out with Algeria; a master move with Putin, predicting that it can cut gas, and then with Algeria, reducing diplomatic relations. Yes, this is a global crisis, which also affects all the countries in our environment, but tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen: Spain is suffering more than other countries from the consequences of the crisis, and that is the fault of the poor management of this government. Inflation, which is already held in two digits despite Mrs Calviño saying and predicting that this would never happen, is above that of the European Union. Of the continent's major economies, Spain is the third most affected by inflation, we continue to lead the unemployment rate in Europe and only Greeks outnumber youth unemployment. All growth forecasts are being reviewed and public debt is on record, in historical terms. In short, more unemployment, poor economic prospects, higher inflation despite the fact that our dependence on Russian gas is lower than that of other countries and, as I say, only the disaster. And this is the result of the negligent management of this government, its inaction, its lack of ambition and the slowness of decision-making. But before I enter the bottom of the decree, allow me to focus on something that, no matter how much it is repeated, does not cease to be equally indignant. Stop ruling behind the backs of this Parliament and the opposition parliamentary groups. Mr Simancas and Mrs Rivera pledged to maintain a line of dialogue with the parliamentary groups of this Congress, but, as they had just said, they turned around and in the Council of Ministers passed a real decree law which they only do is to point out to one sector. We ask him on several occasions whether they knew how they were going to do it or how it would affect the sectors. We will see it and share it with you, they said, but the first thing you do is turn around and adopt a real decree that points directly to trade, without looking where it is, without looking at what territory, because I tell you that the temperatures in summer have not been the same in northern Spain as in the south. The Government continues with the modus operandi of the decree, by which it is already accustomed to rule by imposition, and cannot do so. They bring back to this House a law decree without consensus and also demanding unconditional support for the entire opposition. We will not tolerate you accusing those who do not fall into your game of voting against the interests of the Spanish. Is it really believed that this is continuing to mix some measures with others, measures that have absolutely nothing to do with them, transport measures with energy measures, and also a decree that imposes restrictions - because that is the word, restrictions - on an economic sector as important as trade? They cannot use a royal decree as a quack of measures and we will not tolerate any more blackmail in this House or any more contempt for the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, they are so far from reality that they end up imposing measures that are not really necessary because they do not meet the real needs or the problems of this country, that they are unfair because they do not take into account the different needs of the territories in this country, or they make it only families and businesses who pay for the broken dishes of this crisis, aggravated by their management. Their sectarianism is bad for our country. Please explain again why you are refusing to review the shutdown schedule of nuclear power plants, which currently generate 25% of our energy mix and are better complements to renewables than gas, of course, although I say it to you: it is purely sectarianism, they do not want to do it by pure sectarianism. They are making Spain go in the opposite direction to the rest of Europe and it gives them the same, although in the end they will have to rectify, which is the only thing they know how to do, to rectify. But not only in this they put sticks on the wheels for a better recovery in our country. The Socialist Party and Podemos continue to refuse to lower taxes on families. Moreover, they punish them with impositions and demands of savings without consensus, without looking at other options. On 16 March, Citizens already put in their hands a document with various measures that could be taken to improve these circumstances and that could also have been adopted for energy saving, to accommodate even more facilities for the installation of solar plates or for improvements in heating and cooling systems, to deflate the IRPF, to prolong the VAT reduction from 5% until March of next year or to reform the regulated tariff, PVPC, which is one of the requirements that Europe has put on the table to allow for certain energy changes; in short, a plan with measures to move towards greater energy security for our country, and not a plan of measures that would entail a cost that already exceeds many families and businesses. And one thing I tell you: both small businesses and families were already taking savings measures. You know why? Because they cannot pay, because neither small shops nor many families can afford to put air conditioning in summer, as they cannot put heating in winter.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u82	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u83	Thank you. Let him look at it, and if they intend to continue using the decree law without consensus, they will not be able to count with Citizens. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u84	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, this government's policy on energy and uncontrolled price escalation can only be described as erratic and chaotic with different decrees that soon manifest themselves ineffective and insufficient and are replaced by others who sin exactly the same thing. If there is a constant in the government's energy policy it is that they refuse to take structural measures, such as the radical reform of the electricity system, because they do not want to touch the business of the powerful electric oligopoly. Once again, we are faced with an omnibus decree, a real decree law that collects measures in different areas, some positive and necessary, although, as I said, always on a temporary and short-term basis. I believe that it is necessary to support sectors such as transport, or study grants and to improve the use of public transport, especially rail. However, even in this area, some of the measures discriminate against Galicia. The 100 percent bonus to the neighbourhoods will, as you will know, save the Galicians zero euros for the simple reason that there are no neighbourhoods in our country. Careful, the problem is not losing a four-month bonus, the real problem is that throughout the year we lose the possibility of using absolutely necessary public transport. But they also excluded the Avant Ourense-Santiago-A Coruña line, one of the most used, and this is absolutely unfair and unjustifiable. They also incorporate the availability of an amount of EUR 1360 million to finance electricity costs that we fear will end up in the electric oligopoly, or a provision on the rescue payment of Madrid's motorways. Finally, some are good, but short-term and insufficient measures, so, in the absence of concrete commitments that benefit Galicia, the BNG will not oppose its validation, because we do not want these measures to fall, but we cannot vote in favour either. We will therefore abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u86	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón has the floor. Galvan.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are going to vote in favour of this decree because we believe it is a diverse but necessary package, although it is temporary and more measures are going to be needed, and structural measures, not only for war and for Putin - and you know it - but mainly because we are being burned on the planet. This summer has been very hard and yet, if we do not react, it is most likely to be the coolest summer of those to come. That is why we need a long-range plan worked out and agreed with the groups, not jumping from decree to decree, for public transport, energy saving and energy efficiency, that distributes the efforts fairly. He just left, and it's a shame, but I was very worried to hear Minister Robles's statements, when he predicted to the Spaniards, as if he were a meteorologist, that we're going to have a very hard winter. The Government's task is not to predict a harsh winter for the Spaniards, but to guarantee them a safe winter, doing everything they need to do so. They have the money, they have the votes in the House, they are right and they have European understanding. The only thing this Government could not afford was a winter of discontent. And for that there's only one way, most of the time. The government spokesmen have been speculating for more or less a week or saying that the People's Party was acting like a sailboat, that if Feijóo a month ago said he agreed with energy saving, that if not, that if the PP's autonomous governments said they were going to violate the law, that if they did, then it would seem not. There is some of that, but basically we have all always known what the People's Party was going to vote for. And why did we know? Because the Members of the right, although they too have suffered this summer from the suffocating heat, although they have also seen how the fires devour our country, although they also know that the climate crisis is already here, is serious and urgent, yet they also know that solving it is not enough with individual gestures. A great collective effort is needed, led by an entrepreneurial State capable of leading a just ecological transition and the democratization of energy, and so they do not happen. Every time you are forced to choose between market fundamentalism and the planet, you always choose the first, and we will see it this year many times. The only doubt is whether we're going to make enough progress and whether we're going to get there on time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u88	Thank you. Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u89	Thank you, President. Today in the Spanish state the light is twice as much as it was last week. Up the price of gasoline, up the price of energy, up the price of mortgages and up the unemployment. All the economic data indicates that we're going to have to face some very complicated months. And, in front of this scenario, it is Catalan employers, for example, who are doing the work you should do. It is the Catalan employers who are warning small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed to prepare the contingency necessary to be able to cope with these coming months, and it is the Catalan employers who are also denouncing this way of their so undemocratic and so untransparent way of legislating by royal decree. Because, Minister, to include the rescue of Madrid's motorways in a real decree of energy saving measures and that you ask us to vote in favour because it includes some energy saving measure is called blackmail. And so evil is he who blackmails as he who justifies, facilitates and surrenders himself to this blackmail. So we are going to vote that not to compensate the electricity sector with 1360 million euros of public money, because, Minister, it is neither the time nor the way to compensate for the tax. We will vote that no to this royal decree because it includes, as we have repeated many times, a legal modification to facilitate the payment of the rescue of the motorways of Madrid, and the citizens of Catalonia do not have to pay a hard one of the rescue of the motorways deficitaries of Madrid. They distract us with the windows, with the temperatures and with the ties, while they do what all the governments of the Kingdom of Spain have always done, which is to make it easier for the usual ones to fall standing and the bill paid by the citizen. If this royal decree and the royal decree of fires are passed today, Catalonia will lose even more powers and will lose even more resources, and this should not happen, minister, but it passes every week and passes with each of the laws that you present here. They also say that some change will be possible because the Government is going to make it easier for it to be treated as a bill, but I remind you that there are many real decrees that had to be processed as a bill and have not been processed, for example, the real decree of the European funds Next Generation, which is being processed as a bill year and a half ago in the drawer. Facilitating the approval of this royal decree is voting that... [[Speech continues in Catalan]] It is not a question, Minister, of having for four months a part of free public transport. It is about public transport that works and that the trains of Catalonia, Renfe Catalunya, Rodalies de Catalunya, which you manage, have not worked for many years. They use a four-month grant to hide a long-term effectiveness. Visca Catalunya free! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u90	Thank you. I have the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u91	I mean, hello, I'm the one before. Mrs Perea has shaved my absence in the Chamber during her speech. I am not going to hurt your absence at this time, perhaps I am like myself, preparing your interventions on this item on the agenda and receiving my excuses for the closed video circuit. They've done it again, ministers, vice president. With a single vote, of a pen, in a single text, they remix barbecues with merinas, in this case, measures in the field of transport, fellowships and energy efficiency, apart from an endless number of amendments to other rules that have nothing to do with air safety. And again some of these measures seem right to us, others do not, and many others seem insufficient to us. It is understood, however, that the popular ones are those of transport and that is why they may have assigned to Mrs Sánchez, and not to Mrs Rivera, the defense of this royal decree law, even though not renting her the profit. However, because of its significance and also because of my parliamentary deviation, they will allow me to focus on energy efficiency measures. We share the motivations of this part of the Royal Decree-Law and the need to take urgent action in the field of energy efficiency. Rationalizing consumption makes us less dependent on expensive, polluting and climatically lethal external energy sources. And that, given the current context, is more important than ever, but in your royal decree law you establish measures without consensus, without precision, which are not accompanied by the measures necessary to facilitate their implementation. For us to understand each other, it seems that they are more effective than effective measures, and you remain very short. That is why we have repeatedly and publicly called for more ambition and responsibility. And I must say that, in welcoming the Socialist Group's written commitment to the processing of this royal decree law as a bill and therefore calling for, through the amendment, more responsibility and more ambition, we will call for a moratorium on the implementation of measures for self-employed workers and SMEs until 30 November. We will also call for a State support fund managed by the Autonomous Communities to finance the costs of implementing these measures, especially for SMEs. We will also call for an additional funding mechanism to ensure additional inspections resulting from these measures, which in this case also fall on the Autonomous Communities. Finally, we will call for the incorporation of new measures that really lead to greater energy efficiency. All of them will surely sound to him, for we have already uttered them. Already regulate the energy communities and modify the actual self-consumption decree to allow self-consumption at 5 km, at 5 mega. [[Applauds]] How can it be that in Portugal or France self-consumption is allowed at a greater distance from the 500 ridiculous meters of the Spanish State? Secondly, speed up the adoption of the closed network regulation, which would do industries as well as those of the Tarragona petrochemicals. Thirdly, they no longer penalise industrial cogeneration. Our proposal is to promote cogeneration in order, first, to reduce the demand for primary energy, and second, to facilitate the entry of biogas. Special mention deserves the 400 mega Tarragona Power Central of the BASF industrial polygon that has been left out of the compensation mechanism. Vice-President, we still have a lot to do, because it seems that you ignore with funny olympism what the document Save Gas for a Safe Winter and its annex A European Gas Demand Reduction Plan says. Specifically, it says that in order to unlock the potential of demand response by next winter, Member States should open up all markets to flexible demand resources to enable their participation. We believe in a transition to a more efficient, democratic and renewable energy-dependent model. As we are tremendously aware of the importance of this journey, we have risked and participated in all the energy transition laws that have passed through here. We have been proactive, we have tabled hundreds of amendments and parliamentary initiatives with our proposals, because we know that the future is green or it will not be. Running away from the most negationist discourses, we know how to focus on how the transition takes place. It will be a key to success. There are also other measures included in this text, which we also do not like, such as compensation for the energy sector, the elite of the energy sector, which they never lose, the oligopoly. High electricity prices and the extraordinary benefits of operators, caused by unfair and persistent shortcomings in price formation, do not under any circumstances justify compensation for electricity, but it is in exchange for maintaining reasonable prices. On the transport side, I would like to point out that this measure discriminates against bus users, as you have already been told, with respect to those of Renfe. There are users who are not going to have these bonuses, either for a territorial cause because they do not have the services of this operator or for a personal cause, because they have opted freely, for other reasons, for bus transport. In any case, what...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u92	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u93	Right away, just one sentence, Mr. Vice President. In any case, what is clear is that it attacks the territorial rebalancing between regions and people, creating an unnecessary comparative aggravation. For example, Minorca, Formentera and Ibiza. How will this measure benefit them? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u94	Thank you. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u95	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living a summer in which climate change is hitting us in an unusual way. Unprecedented temperatures, devastating forest fires, water crisis in some basins are only symptoms of the changes we are making in the climate, and that is why the measures that are aimed at reducing our consumption of fossil fuels are justified, allowing emissions to be reduced as well. To this is added the threat of Putin summarizing Ursula von der Leyen - by the way, of the People's Party - on this plan of savings, saying that the plan of savings is a decisive and unprecedented step to confront the threat of Putin completely interrupting the supply of gas. The collective commitment to reduce gas consumption by 15% is significant and will help us meet our winter storage needs, a threat that forces us to contain gas consumption to safely reach winter. In fact, the debate opened after the adoption of this royal decree by the Council of Ministers, and which we are discussing today, shows that there are two opposing ways to combat the climate threat and the threat of Vladimir Putin to leave half of Europe gas-free from autumn. The first is that of the Government, which relies on the strategy agreed by the Twenty-Seven at a meeting of Energy Ministers in Brussels on 26 July, to complete the transition to non-external renewable energy, with consumption-saving measures that stretch the gas reserves sufficiently to withstand the consequences of a Russian embargo; this will lead, in addition to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, to deepen the fight against climate change. The second is the one claimed by the People's Party with the support of the far right of VOX and what remains of Citizens, a kind of photo of Columbus of energy that seeks to prolong the life of nuclear power plants, recover fracking and burn coal again in thermal power plants. On the measures proposed by the decree there is not much to add because they are already showing their effectiveness. The third week since entry into force has reduced energy consumption in our country by 9% and the President of the European Commission herself, the popular Von der Leyen, has publicly praised it. In fact, for the United Nations, these measures are necessary, although we also believe that we can go further. That is why we have made some proposals which I will then give to the Vice-President, because I have heard him say in the media that the parliamentary groups had not made any proposals. In the face of the People's Party's rejection of the measures calling for the withdrawal of the savings plan, we believe that we are faced with an opportunity to be more courageous and deepen a series of reforms that are essential to tackle the crisis resulting from the Putin war in Ukraine, but also to face a crisis that is worsening in an accelerated way, which is the climate crisis. The extreme right-wing negationist and the retardant right are once again demonstrating their null and void commitment to the country with an opportunistic attitude, since from our point of view it is evident that the real decree adopted by the Government not only remains short, compared to the measures adopted in other countries in our environment, but it was the President of the People's Party himself who himself publicly requested savings and efficiency plans weeks ago that are contained in the approved plan. In Unity We believe that these measures proposed by the Government are a step forward in order, in solidarity, to deal with the energy crisis, but we also suggest that steps should not only be bigger, but that efforts should be shared fairly. Firstly, a global target for reducing energy consumption should be set and distributed across sectors, with the transport sector and the industrial sector making a greater effort. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little baffled to recall the advantages of energy saving because it is something that in those autonomous communities where environmental education is maintained is studied in schools, but I will do so because we have actually heard some interventions with which one has felt shame others. Saving energy is good because it reduces dependence on foreign energy sources, reduces environmental damage and pollution, represents a commitment to future security, improves the sustainability of our world, reduces environmental degradation, reduces loss of diversity and also reduces the impact of climate change. Just go over it a little bit because questioning measures on energy saving really leads us to absurdity. We have, as I said, made a number of proposals to go further - which I will now hand over to the Vice-President - to advocate that the measures be structural, for example on issues such as ending subsidies to all fossil fuels, setting up a public energy company and, ultimately, deepening measures that are already producing results. Today we have woken up with the news that the self-consumption facilities in Spain already exceed the power of two nuclear power plants. Self-consumption, does that ring a bell? Does the sun tax ring a bell? Does that sound like the blockade you guys made, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? I think it does ring a bell. We also call for energy-saving measures, measures in transport, for example in rail transport, as well as for the drive to transport goods by rail to bring us closer to that 18% of the European Union compared to the 4% we are in now, or for the reduction of works in the moratorium on the extension of ports and airports. All these measures are in line with the aim of reducing energy consumption. With regard to the energy policies of that block of Columbus, it should be noted that there is nothing new, which has been on the same wheel for more than twenty years: nuclear, coal and fracking. What can go wrong with that recipe? But you systematically forget to remember that this situation in France, to which you refer, is precisely due to the failure of the French nuclear programme, which currently has 30 nuclear power stations. For this reason, France will live the worst winter of its history, with electricity at 1300 euros the megawatt/hour because of this great nuclear stop. But you forget about this, even some right-wing newspaper has recently titled nothing less than this: 'Russian gas ceases to be the greatest danger for Europe, now the threat is the great nuclear stop in France'. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really time for you to wake up from these energy proposals that are at least twenty or thirty years old and join the energy transition, because really, if not, you are getting out of the game from where the world is going and where the European Union is going.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u96	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u97	All I have left is to tell you that if you go to the European Union and tell them that against high temperatures what needs to be done is going to a mall or going to mass, I really don't think you're going to pay much attention to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u98	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political course begins and it does so in the midst of extremely worrying circumstances. After almost two and a half years since the arrival of the coronavirus in Spain, our economy remains the only one in the European Union that has not yet recovered the levels of gross domestic product prior to the pandemic. As we note, the Government's growth forecasts are once again a wet paper, but some prestigious institutions go beyond that. AIReF anticipates a downturn in the economy in this third quarter, which would be the first contraction in that quarter in nine years. The productive fabric, very weakened, has had to make real heroes to survive, and is resenting it. The latest data on unemployment and membership recorded the first destruction of employment in a month of July throughout the historical series and, when there are still 38,000 companies less than before the crisis, the Government brings us a real decree law that not only does it not bravely face the problems we suffer, but it again carries on the shoulders of the SMEs, the self-employed, the traders and the Spanish families what they are unable to solve. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in these circumstances, once again, the Government brings us an order and command, a new, real, cheating decree-law, with very different provisions affecting a plurality of matters, with improvised measures, some even going to increase inflation further, and which, of course, have not negotiated with anyone and which do not solve what remains one of the main structural problems affecting our country. From the producers of the largest confinement of the West - unconstitutional, by the way, according to the Constitutional Court, at the request of VOX - from the writers of the idea of getting up in the morning to put the washing machine and save on the light bill, now comes a new chapter: the cut of the air conditioning in summer and the restrictions to the heating in winter, the blackout of the windows and the rejoining of the merchants who want - listen to this - to force to install automatic closing doors in all the shops of Spain before 30 September, a real madness. And the Spaniards are sick of so much madness, because it is now the Spanish households, our companies and the productivity of the whole country that are paying for the consequences of an unsettled energy policy, driven for decades by governments of the PSOE, the PP and its European partners. Those political elites installed in their climate dogmas that are now calling for these efforts are the same ones that have caused the problem precisely with these dogmas, accentuated above with the situation that they have created of dependence on Russian energy. [[Applauds]] The Spanish deserve a government that promotes an energy sovereignty plan that increases the diversification of energy supply sources, ensures cheap, sustainable, efficient and clean energy, and puts Spain and the Spanish at the centre of interest. On the other hand, you show that you have not learned anything from the situation you have created and, worst of all, reoccur in error with the usual measures. Instead of advocating a realistic adaptation of climate objectives, instead of betting as it is starting to be done in other countries for nuclear energy - said the other day the president of the Spanish Nuclear Society that Spain is the only country in the European Union that is not revising or even considering revising its programme to extend the life of its reactors - and instead of opening up ways for the exploitation of its own resources, you opt for the only way you know: to impose consumption cuts whose impact on Russia will be zero. Moreover, now that six months have passed since the invasion of Ukraine, Russia is entering 89% more than before for the export of hydrocarbons to European countries, and that is what we are selling 15% less volume, that is, Europe pays more and receives less gas. [[The lady]] Meanwhile, you all pass a climate change law that prohibits us from exploiting the natural resources we have. For those of us who defend common sense at the time and alone, the penalty was to call ourselves anti-European or climate negatists. But you know that we don't care about that, we don't care what you call us. What has already been shown, and faster than we thought ourselves, is that, as always, VOX was right. [[Applauds]] It is not that the number of people you call denialists is going to grow, but that more and more Spaniards are going to refuse to vote for you and you who have created this situation for you. If that were not enough, the Government, Minister, has been able to further worsen the situation in the midst of an energy war, generating a diplomatic conflict with one of our main gas suppliers: Algeria, which precisely made us less dependent on Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not serious to fire Russian gas purchases until you are able to turn Russia into Spain's second largest gas supplier, while you say you are defending the opposite. And, knowing that, it is not serious to state, as the explanatory statement of this royal decree law makes, that Spain has a low dependence on Russian gas. It is not serious to say that we are less dependent on that gas and, at the same time, suffer the biggest blackouts in Europe. It is not serious to approve aid to transporters, who need it, while preparing a tax via tolls. It is not serious to demand efforts from the Spanish, while the president of the Government of the twenty-two ministries continues to burn fuel in his Falcon for absurd journeys. Ladies and gentlemen, a very complicated, very complicated winter is coming: economic confidence is crumbling, growth is slowing down and the prices of the shopping basket are already in the clouds. The Spaniards already spend a month and a half a year just to pay that price increase, making saving impossible. The destruction of jobs comes back and the feared ERTEs arrive after the ban on firing activated by the pandemic has expired. The rise in interest rates, which we announce would arrive, is already here and time is running out. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not as you always say: Putin, the virus and Franco. This is the incompetence of a government that must have taken the initiative a long time ago, but offers only increases in taxes, patches, occurrences and improvisations such as those that today lead us to validate. Do not count on us, we will not be collaborators of the greatest destruction of the Spanish economy in the last forty years. This disaster that you have brought will be the one that will put an end to this very government. Spain cannot wait, and the first station is that you call elections and leave the government as soon as possible for the good of Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u101	Thank you, President. With all the expectation that this debate will have, in which the majority of citizens believe that we are going to vote if they are going to have to turn off the light or if they are not going to have to turn it off, or if they are going to have to turn off the heating, I recognize that I feel uncomfortable because this type of debate that is often taking place in this Parliament, and more and more, because it is a debate based on permanent lies. I move very badly in that dynamic, I recognize that I move badly in the dynamics of not dialogue. I've been calling the People's Party for a week, and there was no one on the other side of the phone. Reminds me of when Gila was calling on the phone and asking if there was anyone on the other side, and there was no one here willing to talk. [[Applauds]] I recognize that I am frustrated at this, but I have also found parliamentary groups who were willing to support, to do politics, to give up the noise and who have decided to support this decree. And we say: we are going to validate it, we are going to treat it as a bill - we are going to do it within four weeks to close the deadline for amendments - and we will also make changes to improve it, such as that energy communities can also be supplied by plants that are more than 500 metres away. That's politics. In this Parliament we have today political parties and parties that have renounced it, and I believe that this harms us all. I have lived and lived in this Parliament as the People's Party asked us all to support the transporters. And I ask: what did the People's Party tell the truckers yesterday when they called them to say that they supported this decree? What was the answer they were given? [[Applauds]] Because both I and this House saw how they constantly came up here asking us to listen to the truckers, and this government has done so. I would like to thank the Platform for the Defense of the Transport Sector, which in March called for an arrest and had the opportunity to decide to reconvene and make noise, as many people do, which is easy, or sit down to dialogue, and sit down to dialogue. Today the decree that comes here, and that we are going to validate, is an agreement between the entire transport sector: between the committee, between the platform, among all those who wanted to dialogue. That is why I want to thank you for your attitude, because at this time in which we are living, there was an easy attitude, which was to make noise. The People's Party has decided to make noise and has given up politics, but the media do the same. When we go out in the media today, they'll talk about whether or not this royal decree law is validated that has to do with energy, but I'm going to tell you what you're going to vote against the People's Party, Citizens and VOX. They are going to vote against the bonds that the 400,000 people have asked to travel for free, to go to work they can do; they are going to vote against that. They will vote against the scholarships, which are extended by 100 euros; this is what they will vote against the People's Party and its right-wing partners. They are going to vote against the truckers and that the truckers can work above their costs, which we think is reasonable. That's what the People's Party is going to do here today. Besides, they're lying to us. I too, like most Members of Parliament, meet with people and listen to our neighbors, who say to us, "Hey, Caesar, the bill for the light has gone up." True, the bill for light has risen across Europe. But it is also true that in Spain and Portugal, thanks to the Iberian exception, the bill is much lower and that if there were no Iberian exception they would be paying three times as much as they are paying. [[Applauds]] Honestly, I understand the people who are suffering the consequences of this crisis. But do you imagine what would have happened if I was ruling the People's Party? Neither ERTE nor transport aid, lower wages, cheaper layoffs, because it was what they did in the previous crisis. [[Applauds]] When one wonders which side the People's Party is on, there is nothing more to see than what they stand for and vote for here: they are opposed to imposing taxes on electricity and banking, and they are opposed to giving aid to families, self-sufficient, transporters, young people, students, all those people who need it in a complicated situation. [[Applauds]] Who's in favor of the People's Party? From the banks, to those rescued in the previous crisis. Who's he against? Of the families, who left during the worst crisis, and let them sink without thinking about them. That is why I am surprised that when there was a change of leadership with the People's Party, we were told that Feijóo, the moderate, was coming. In my land it is said a lot about rid me of the meek bull that I rid myself of the brave one. What is going to happen to Feijóo at this time, which is also believed to be on the wave of surveys and will not harm him at all, is that the media focus and its statements, which are often very inconsistent, which do not have to see what he says one day with what he says otherwise, will wear him out. Let the Spaniards be very clear that, fortunately, when there are again general elections, there will continue to be a progressive government that will legislate in favour of the majority of the citizens because we will fight against that lie that they want us to install. [[applause]] I believe that in the face of the lie in which politics is installed, we must all combat it. In these months many of you have read the headline about Members going away for two months on vacation. In July we were here working, we had a whole week session in mid-July, and we're working in August. The problem of feeding lies, the problem of feeding such policies, is that it harms politics, but when it harms politics, it is also harming citizens. There have been and are parties, such as the People's Party, that have set themselves up in the strategy of lying to try to draw political revenue. I do not think we can afford it in a period of uncertainty, in which citizens want politicians to represent them, to help them, to defend them, to dialogue, and that is why we ask everyone to do so. I'm on my way. Today the majority of parties in this House are going to validate this decree with very broad support, because they have decided to do politics, because we are committed to improving this royal decree law with the processing as a bill. Other games have decided to continue on vacation. Let them continue on vacation, but at least don't bother the rest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2022, OF 1 AUGUST, BY WHICH EMERGENCY MEASURES ARE TAKEN IN THE FIELD OF FOREST AFFAIRS. [[File number 130/000087]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u103	We began the debate on Royal Decree-Law 15/2022 of 1 August, which provides for urgent measures in the area of forest fires. To present the royal decree law has the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third vice-president and minister for the ecological transition and the demographic challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u104	Very good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I rise to this rostrum to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 15/2022, which provides for urgent measures to combat forest fires, and I would like the first words of my speech to be recalled with regret to the three fatal victims and the wounded, some of them still hospitalized, who have caused this summer's fires that have devastated our country. [[Applauds]] I want to convey to their families my affection and the accompaniment of this Government at hard times, and also the affection and interest that we feel for the neighbours of those municipalities that have been evicted, that have been affected at some point by the extreme conditions that they have had to suffer as a result of these fires, trusting that they can recover normality as soon as possible. That is the intention of the Government, an intention of the Government that has already been reflected in the agreement on areas seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection from the fires of our country during the months of June, July and August, adopted precisely this Tuesday by the Council of Ministers. But I would also like to thank the enormous work of the Civil Protection teams, the forest agents and firefighters, the state security forces and bodies that have participated in the extinction of the forest fires that took place this summer in a very large part of the national territory, because I recognize in all these workers the best image and the greatest commitment of our country's public services. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country rich in biodiversity, the second with the most forest area in Europe, a territory, a country that is located in a climate transition zone, a Mediterranean climate that has traditionally forced us to take extreme precautions in the face of forest fires and to combat them with important human resources, materials and regulatory measures of different scope, with obviously involvement by the competent administrations, autonomous communities and outlaws. It is a Mediterranean climate that is, however, changing. Climate transition zones are facing an increasingly harsh and complex reality. We do it in the Mediterranean and in those other countries, in those other places with equivalent climate, such as California or Australia. The impacts of climate change are evident in our eyes, clearly showing what science has been warning us for a long time. Because let me remind you of an obviousness that some still do not want to look ahead to and pretend to deceive citizens: climate change is science, it's observed data, it's data, unfortunately, with huge economic and social impacts, not only with immense environmental impacts. So, ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right, stop talking about climate change as a religion, because it is neither religion nor question of faith, it is not witchcraft, it is not magic, it is a drama and a responsibility of our generation. [[Applauds]] This year is a good example not only in Spain, but in the rest of Europe and in a very good part of the world, where we see how the changes are accelerating dramatically: heat waves, extreme droughts, rivers that run out of water, forest fires that have left us a very good part of the territory with huge problems. These natural factors are compounded by other socio-economic factors that must be given great attention and for which we must be responsible. We must work from all administrations with the utmost seriousness, with the greatest coherence. Limitations arising from the phenomenon accumulated for decades associated with depopulation, decrease in traditional forest and mountain management activities, activities related to bioeconomy that have been losing value precisely because the importance of this management of the territory, a value that cannot only be symbolic, which must also be economic, has not been valued. The truth is that it is no longer enough to identify positions of the territory or weeks of greatest risk, we need to strengthen and consolidate a precautionary treatment and a cross-cutting response to the challenge we face. This face of forest fires is precisely one of the most dramatic, one of the most visible in our country. Climate change explains that heat waves are three to four times more frequent than in the previous four decades. Climate change explains why days of high or extreme risk in the Mediterranean region in relation to fires have increased between 10 and 40 days a year. The report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change last June already warned that the forest area burned in the Mediterranean area could double or triple its extent as CO2 emissions increased and temperatures increased. Speaking very graphically by the World Meteorological Organization, by its Secretary General, Petteri Taalas, heat waves are becoming more common because of climate change. We have provided the atmosphere with more greenhouse gases, especially carbon dioxide, so warming and other trends will continue until at least 2060, regardless of whether or not they are successful in mitigating climate change. I am clear that we must succeed, we must fight climate change. And it is not enough to join the headline and then, however, to sing the measures, questioning or joking about the measures, gentlemen of the People's Party, because energy transition is not to call things frivolously, energy transition is to take the change of energy model seriously. [[Applauds]] In Spain, in the European Union, fire data from 2022 corroborate the statements made by the scientific community. The national climate advance of the spring of 2022, brought by the State Meteorology Agency, marked that this month of May has been the warmest of the last fifty-eight years, data that allowed us to anticipate what was going to be the summer of 2022, a summer much warmer than usual. It's been like this. Last July was extremely warm; its average temperature was the highest recorded in Spain, not only in July, but in any month since at least 1961. We suffer average temperatures over peninsular Spain of 25.6 degrees, a value that remains 2.7 degrees above this month's average in historical records. Waves of heat that add up to more than thirty days, many of them consecutive, with night temperatures classified as tropical nights more than six nights in a row. So let me remind you again of the obvious: it has not only been hot because it is summer. No more jokes. It has been as hot as ever since we have data and perhaps, as some experts warn, this may be one of the coolest summers of our lives. Extremely worrying are also the precipitation data. The precipitation data accumulated during the hydrological year beginning on 1 October, i.e. from 1 October to 16 August, show an accumulated reduction of 26 %. We have suffered an extremely dry year, which explains why the reservoirs have been below 37% of their capacity, the worst since 1995, which is why we convened the drought table on 4 March. Thanks to the measures we adopted in Decree Law 4/2022 of 15 March, we have been able to manage reasonably, without cuts, beyond what might be foreseeable at this time, those decisions that have guaranteed access to water. A table that has been combined with dialogue with urban water cycle operators. On the European scale, according to the report of the European Commission's Joint Research Centre, after analysing the data provided by the European Drought Observatory, it is clear that Europe could be experiencing the worst drought in five hundred years. The Loire, the Rhine, the Danube, our reservoirs, the reservoirs in Portugal are a good example of this, with economic, social, energy consequences and, of course, with fire consequences. Future projections show a upward trend in temperature and precipitation reduction, as highlighted by the World Meteorological Organization, the United Nations Climate Convention or the United Nations Convention on Desertification; that is, we are heading for even warmer and more fire-prone summers. Therefore, that basic legislation that we have been implementing for decades needs to be updated. We need to update, deepen, improve the means at our disposal and the capacity to react, the best coordination, the best training. Let me summarize the forest fire data in 2022. On 19 August, there were 7613 casualties, with a total area burned to more than 229,000 hectares. The number of large fires, with an area of more than 500 hectares burned, has been fifty in what we have been doing all year. The data of these calcined hectares is well above the historical average; the data on the great fires is the worst of the last decade: more and more fires are becoming more difficult to extinguish, more complex, even in some cases with difficulties to guarantee physical means, rest, conditions to be able to operate in an early and calm way. So let me again express gratitude and gratitude to all those involved in these tasks. [[Applauds]] If we look at Europe, the data is chilling. One in three of the 700,000 hectares that have burned this year has done so in Spain, and this forces us to react together. To personal, material, environmental damage, is added an impact that is difficult to recover, the emotional impact for the neighbors, the impact in terms of biodiversity, whose recovery often takes decades, if it comes to be achieved. All that I have said so far without reducing the other great concern, the other great variable to which I referred at the beginning, socio-economic factors to which we must pay particular attention and give the appropriate response. Measures to combat depopulation must be implemented to reverse the growing abandonment of mountain management; to promote activities related to bio-economy, because it is essential to anticipate and reduce the risks that climate change poses in terms of fires; to facilitate a balanced recovery of the population in our territory, with a recognition of the important economic and environmental task that managers in the territory, who are our convecinos of rural Spain, carry out. But it is also essential to strengthen our system of forest fire prevention, surveillance and extinction from all that we have learned and accumulated over the years, from improvements in coordination between public institutions, from serious work to be carried out throughout the year, not six weeks or two months or three months, throughout the year. Both in prevention and in extinction and restoration, common and well-coordinated work is required by all actors. The more we achieve this comprehensive and shared strategy, the more effective we will be in prevention and rapid action when the risk materializes. Therefore, prior to the adoption in the Council of Ministers of this decree law, on 28 July, the strategic guidelines for the management of forest fires in Spain were published, setting out the lines of action for the prevention and extinction of forest fires, in which the teams of all the competent administrations have been working in order to be able to have a reinforcement and a deepening, a task that demands more and more professionalism, A greater means, greater effort. These guidelines were drawn up by the Committee to Combat Forest Fires, adopted unanimously at the Sectoral Conference on the Environment at its meeting on 28 July. The updating of the Mountain Law that operates this decree law is a reflection of these guidelines. In the area of prevention, it is proposed to amend article 48 of the Montes Act, a basic requirement which we believe should be modernised, made more effective, facilitating the use of key planning tools in the prevention, surveillance and extinction of fires. Therefore, the decree law incorporates that before 31 October of the year preceding its implementation all - autonomous communities, deputies, state - we must approve and publish those annual plans that allow us to prevent, monitor and extinguish fires continuously. It is no longer worth thinking only, he said earlier, in a few weeks or in some specific geographical areas. These plans are designed as instruments of preferential management for territorial policies, but they are also key tools for dissemination, transparency and shared learning. The Decree-Law incorporates on a basic basis the guiding principles and the minimum contents of the updated plans after years of implementation of the Montes Act. For the first time they are conceived as tools for the whole year and throughout the territory and, of course, they cease to be weeks or specific areas and require the best knowledge of the citizens, they require the best involvement of all administrations. The plans should include, from an integral point of view, those issues related to the prevention and extinction of fires; identification of areas according to their risk: design of devices throughout the year; provision of means and personnel; regulation of risk uses and, in general, those aspects that may have an impact on the defence of the natural environment against fires, on the protection of people from fires, always with the capacity to improve, strengthen from this perspective of the competent administration much closer and more knowledgeable of the territory. They are plans that are more far-reaching than those planned so far by their territorial scope - covering the whole territory - for their permanent implementation, for the inclusion of reinforced preventive measures, such as a common minimum of implementation throughout the national territory, a permanent allocation throughout the year. Because, in the absence of good preparation, we endanger the lives of people, neighbors and workers at the time of extinction. The new plans improve transparency in the implementation of skills in the prevention, surveillance and firefighting, which obviously fall on the autonomous communities and make it possible to learn about the measures taken in each territory. On the basis of solidarity, the various administrations are doing well to provide additional means from one autonomous community to another, or to strengthen where it is needed by the State. But - let us not forget - a country that knows its risks and is prepared to face them is a safer country, a better country for its citizens. [[Applauds]] The question, therefore, is: do you not think it is essential that these plans, which are known in advance, have the right information, precision and commitment so that risk prevention and a much more effective reaction capacity can be put into practice? We, the Government of the nation, also feel obliged to do so. This year we have contributed means for the extinction of fires in many autonomous communities: Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, Extremadura, Galicia, Asturias, Valencian Community, Navarre, Aragon, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Catalonia, Murcia, Andalusia and Euskadi. We have intervened by providing support to our Iberian neighbour, Portugal, who has also suffered major forest fires this summer. We have had a very important air and ground capacity that has been at the edge of the effort, both by people and by the air support means. We have had 10 high-capacity amphibious aircraft, six medium-capacity aircraft, eight bomber helicopters and nineteen transport and extinguishment aircraft, plus ten other ground cargo aircraft and four coordination and observation aircraft. A total of 7,000 flight hours had been flown until 14 August; 7,000 flight hours, when the average of the last five years had been 1788, had been used to give them a graph of the extent to which this had been a particularly harsh year. We must be prepared that, if they are repeated again in the future, we will have the appropriate means to respond. In terms of land resources, seven analysis and planning units, ten Forest Fire Reinforcement Brigades, four comprehensive fire prevention teams, plus Civil Protection and UME support, along with State security forces and bodies, have been established. In short, we have made a great effort to support the autonomous communities that we think deserve that we all take a step forward in the management of our own competences and in the framework of greater solidarity and coordination among all in order to strengthen the means at our disposal. Instrumental coordination is also improved and clarified in measures such as the adoption of a common protocol for air assets, the quantification and qualification of extinguishing equipment according to its characteristics and minimum safety training conditions, so that there is no worker at risk for not having either individual protective equipment or adequate training for the task requested of him, all of which obviously in coordination with the competent public administrations and without prejudice to the capacity for improvement which many of them have shown, although I would also like to point out that not all of them have demonstrated that effort and commitment. Another of the measures contained in the Royal Decree Law for the improvement of risk prevention and control is that in cases where the State Meteorology Agency - and, together with it, the agencies of the autonomous communities in which there is an equivalent meteorological service - foresees a very high or extreme risk, the limitations and prohibitions of risk activity can be applied... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u105	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u106	... something that in doing so automatically facilitates the fight against the generalisation or the emergence of new fires, a statement that must obviously take into account the assessment of the autonomous meteorological agencies where they exist and that can be reinforced, expanded or developed by the autonomous communities in terms that they consider appropriate. State support for the prevention, defence and extinction services of the autonomous communities is envisaged through additional measures. For example, in order to promote decision-making, the Ministry will develop and publish a fire risk zoning tool, basic information likely to be improved or specified by the competent administrations, but at least we will have a permanently updated elementary map throughout the national territory, just as we do with the State Meteorological Agency, maintaining permanently up-to-date information on the levels of meteorological risk and thus providing sufficient advance preparation with geo-referenced information, which is extremely useful when a time of risk approaches and, again, without prejudice to the capacity for improvement or greater precision that can be given in those territories with competence in this area. Air assets, which are no longer air assets for the summer, are kept active throughout the year, and heli-transported reinforcement units and other support means are kept active throughout the year, according to the programming to be reviewed and published annually. In the area of extinction, the decree-law that is brought to validation today aims to strengthen cooperation, make it simpler, automatic and predictable, ensuring that at the critical time the action is effective and that coordination between the different teams, regardless of the administration to which they belong, is excellent and without doubt. It is sought that the coordination of the teams in the cases of fires in areas bordering two or more autonomous communities will be sufficiently clear on the assumptions and the way to act protocolized, so that the unified direction of the work will make it easier. We also incorporate some measures around the restoration of areas that suffer from fires from the zero minute. As an example, I said earlier, the award of emergency forest restoration works in the area affected by the Culebra saw fire in early summer for a total amount of EUR 2 million, with an estimated duration of seven months, but we have done so in previous years. However, we believe that there is room for improvement. We believe that it is good, as we have done in this decree law, to introduce a mechanism of collaboration of the General Administration of the State with the autonomous communities in the restoration of forest and environment. A territory that has burned and is not properly restored has a higher risk of erosion, loss of soil quality and difficulty in its recovery. However, co-responsibility in this area is essential; it is essential that the autonomous communities have approved and implemented the plans for prevention, monitoring and extinction; it is essential that financial participation be shared, not in a discretionary manner, as it has been so far, but that here, when the support of the General Administration of the State is requested, there be participation in the financing of these restoration activities also by the autonomous communities, except, of course, for land of state ownership. In short, the measures articulated in this Decree-Law are due to the need to strengthen, adapt and update urgently some of the instruments provided for in the basic legislation on forest fire control in order to ensure good planning, to be able to consolidate the reinforcement by the State, in order to facilitate the best and most coordinated action of all the media from the zero minute, all this to ensure that Spain is prepared throughout the year, that we are prepared if there is a fire at any time other than those that have been traditional, knowing that we have the best operational capacities to deal with the situation. But this decree law also includes other measures that are particularly important and that are being expected for years by the shellfish farmers of the O Burgo ria, some shellfish farmers that had the support of the Xunta and that over the years we have had to rebuild, seeking that the environmental dredging of the sediments of the O Burgo ria, which is an action of great social importance demanded repeatedly by the shellfish sector, does not create problems or difficulties for citizens or for shellfish farmers. This action will allow the environmental recovery of an area of land-based maritime public domain affected by decades of uncontrolled dumping, a project that was included in the general plan of shellfish exploitation for the triennium 202123, agreed in the orders of the Consellería do Mar de la Xunta de Galicia last September 2020 and December 2021. Its execution requires a temporary suspension of shellfish activity. For this reason, compensation is provided to the holders of the operating permits enabling the exercise of the shellfish. It is envisaged that aid will be granted directly to the Cofradía de Pescadores de A Coruña in accordance with the General Subsidy Act, which will take effect from 1 February 2022 until the end of the dredging of the ria, and which has a budget of EUR 1.7 million in 2022, 1.9 million in 2023 and 130 000 in 2024. We want to make sense of these intervention needs while taking into account the social condition that they may represent at a certain time. In conclusion, I would like to thank the President for the enormous work of the agencies involved in the tasks of preventing, monitoring and extinguishing fires, the brigades, environmental agents, the civil protection services, coordinated by the Ministry of the Interior, the UME, the Seprona, the Civil Guard, the State Security Forces and Bodies, the personnel of the autonomous communities, the volunteers, the mayors, all those who, from their small plot or their great responsibility, contribute with responsibility to something that fortunately has become more coherent, with greater response and with greater responsibility on the part of Spanish society. [[applause]] I request your support for the validation of this decree law, taking into account the worrying reality that I have been able to express in my intervention and the global situation to which climate change leads. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Third Vice President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Without demeriting the Minister for Transport, I would like to say that he has been greatly missed in the previous matter of energy policy, a matter of crucial importance and concern for Spanish society and the economy. With regard to this Royal Decree-Law, which provides for measures on forest fires, it should be noted that it is insufficient, it disregards the criteria of autonomous communities, municipalities and rural dwellers, and neither has the forestry sector been taken into account. The standard provides for the prevention of fires as a whole, without distinguishing territories, regions and their different aspects and environmental competences. Speaking of the rural environment, I cannot fail to point out the chronic lack of investment, despite the fact that it is the great one affected by the serious destruction of our natural heritage, which exacerbates the already precarious economic situation of farmers and farmers, who are trying to give up their modus vivendi. Yesterday it was known that in Asturias the slaughter of dairy cows has grown by 20% due to high costs. And if there is no economic activity, the people disappear because they take off. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of official greening, it must be stressed once again that the lack of protection of traditional activities, the bureaucratic, administrative and fiscal penalisation of agricultural works and activities, as well as the pressure of urban environmentalism, causes the abandonment of the territory, the depopulation and the disappearance of the landscape. Spain is failing dramatically in its demographic policy, which is also a matter for its minister, Mrs Ribera, and one of its main consequences is evidenced by forest fires and desertification in the territory. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u110	This is a serious problem that we share with the European Union, so a Community response can be demanded and updated. Madam Third Vice President, we've been in 2022 where terrible fires are being repeated. When half of Spain is calcined and our brigades, firefighters, agents and volunteers are exhausted by the sacrificed and sometimes lethal task of extinction, it makes sense to apply exceptional and urgent measures, but those that you have explained are late and remain short. Finally, it called on the Government to ensure that aid to those affected by disasters does not spread over time, which unfortunately happened in Asturias in the very severe wave of fires at the end of 2015, which affected fifty-eight of the seventy-eight Asturian municipalities. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a decree that has been discussed and brought to the sectoral table. Well, wonderful; I wish most of the parliamentary procedures that are done in this House would be talked to the autonomous communities and listen to the peculiarities of each one. We are dealing with a minimum document setting out action plans on fire prevention, forecasting and fire-extinguishing. Well, the plans are fine, but the plans without means and without funding remain in a mere declaration of intent. And in this, ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done in my community; and it is that the same always happens to the Canary Islands: the time of fires comes and we start to tremble, because we have no resources to tackle them for ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Canary Islands we have to wait forever for resources to arrive from the peninsula. We are eight islands in the middle of the Atlantic, and all of us here know that hours are paramount when it comes to a forest fire. Ladies and gentlemen, is it not easier, rather than seeing how the earth is burned for eternal hours, to have a permanent seat of Kamov helicopters so that we can quickly and effectively tackle these tragedies? I think so, and so did the Senate, because measures were adopted in 2020. It was approved to extend the 6th Military Emergency Unit of the UME so that the Canary Islands would no longer depend on the Seville Battalion; it makes no sense. The permanent Kamov helicopter base was also approved. The Air Force hydroplane was also temporarily approved. Please comply with what is approved in the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely our remoteness that makes it more necessary than ever for us to have tools to combat these tragedies. The orography of my land makes it very difficult to tackle these types of fires, and sometimes human lives are played out by the delay until those means arrive. Ladies and gentlemen, spelling, geographical location, climate change - you have said this - are basic issues for the Canary Islands to have the government's attention that it really deserves. And, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I will briefly talk to you about what happens when extinction and prevention do not work or arrive in time. Things like that happen in 2019. Spain's worst fire in 2019 took place in Gran Canaria; the island was devastated. And you know what? There are families who have lost everything, and who, to this day, have not yet received the aid, buried in bureaucratic papers. The flames took their lives and you didn't reach out to them. The question is: Do all victims of a disaster or catastrophic zone receive aid? The answer is no; the answer is only sometimes. Don't drown from bureaucracy people who have lost everything. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, we are going to support this decree, but this decree without human, material and financing will not be useful, it will be a wet paper. Please keep the promises with the citizens, keep what has been passed in the Senate and attend to the canaries, because much more is at stake than simply passing a decree at the last hour and speeding up and running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun where you're going. There are two parameters on which we have set ourselves to take position as Euskal Herria Bildu on this issue. The first, and it is clear, is respect for the competition frameworks, respect for our own and exclusive competences, respect for our sovereignty and also for our capabilities, with attention to our reality and a different situation. You have spoken of the Mediterranean climate as a unique and dominant climate on the peninsula, but you will know that there is the Atlantic climate, the mountain climate and the subtropical climate; two of them will or give logic to our daily reality, the Atlantic and the mountain, and not so much the Mediterranean or the tropical, even if these are majority in the Iberian peninsula. Therefore, for us that is one of the elements, competence respect. The other has to do with the fact that from the certainty that we are facing a major problem, a huge problem, structural measures are being taken, measures are being taken that go beyond the increase in allocations in specific times, generally in seasonality or seasonal policies and in summer, and that we are going to take far more stringent measures that not only affect the number of quotas intended to prevent fires - which will certainly never be enough - but also to try to prevent them. And, by analyzing these two parameters or following what you have said and what is coming in the royal decree, we will vote in favour of them. You have pointed out some data today - which I will not repeat either - but I think that talking about 229,000 hectares would be enough to understand that something has to be done that goes beyond the palliative, and it would also be good for some to abandon speeches, such as the one that was heard yesterday in the Permanent Chamber, about the need to take advantage of the real decree of fires or the logic that hides behind the danger of fires to co-ordinate Spain. What Spain is doing is decaling, not questioning by the logic of fires. It should also be noted that more than 80% of forest fires are caused by humans, they do not come from nothing, and that more than 87% of the forest area burned is articulated from that 80%. Therefore, the responsibility of the human being is direct and decisive in the propagation of fires, in the generation of fires themselves and in the extension of fires themselves, because, in other words, it is the human being who determines the frequency and modifies the types or typology of fires. We therefore change the regime of the fires, alter their frequency, alter their size, alter their intensity and also alter their seasonality. But apart from that, there are also alterations that do not go directly with the cause of ignition of any fire, which can and must be taken into account to avoid further fires; they have to do with the changes in land use that have taken place in the Spanish State for decades, robbing the mountain to give it to the hands of four builders to make architectural aberrations - almost always in touristic key - along the wide territory of the Spanish State. It also has to do with deforestation for agricultural purposes or the logging itself, which has been practiced for decades in the Spanish State to increase the benefits of a few, even planting species as favorable to fire as eucalyptus or radiata pine. It has to do with the urban development of the cities themselves and it also has to do with the abandonment of forestry actions or actions, that is, cleaning up the mountains and preventing them from filling up with fuel, as is the case today. And it also has to do with another of the great debates that have taken place in the Spanish state not long ago, such as that of livestock, that of livestock use, that of the bet for intensive livestock instead of extensive livestock. All of these elements favor or hinder more or less fires. And also in the hand of the human being is climate change, because who else but the human being accelerates climate change? It does so with seasonality - you also pointed out it in your intervention when you said that this is probably the coldest summer we have left of life - and it does so on all occasions, and it does so also frequently. We are increasingly facing longer droughts; he has told us about the most serious drought in Europe over the past five hundred years, but we do know that droughts are going to be greater and that they will encourage fire to start and spread more easily, and we are also subjected to more heat waves, all of which are the consequence of climate change, and these increase the frequency and intensity of these. It's no longer about us saying it, but it's about those who know more about it, the researchers say. It is they who say that in the future, with a warmer climate, the fire regime is expected to be increasingly severe, more areas burned and a longer fire season. This and nothing else is one of the factors that will help us to make what we have been hearing for many years, the progressive desertification of the Spanish state, accelerate. So, if we don't see each other, if we don't change course, we'll probably burn and hug all of us. And this is not echo anxiety, as someone said, from an exhibition of self-indulgence, this is about common sense, that if we don't act now it's probably later. And if we do not now give the guarantee of dignified lives for all and for all - not only for those who can flee the areas at risk to go to others at less risk - we will end up burned all and all. This is the best way, as in everything, to put an end to the denialist hoaxes of the far right; that is, to give data to disassemble his story.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u116	Thank you very much, President. In this debate to validate Decree Law 15/2022, I will focus on its urgent measures on forest fires, which are taken in view of the greater complexity of forest fires and which to this end demand defence against them throughout the year and extended also to the territorial scope of each autonomous community and historical territories, for which planning must certainly be strengthened, coordination and collaboration between the prevention and extinction services and the protection of their components, and economic cooperation measures established for their restoration. These measures are considered to be articulated through the partial amendment of the Mounts Act and, while generally adopted in the exercise of the State's jurisdiction over the basic legislation on the protection of montage against forest fires contained in article 149.1.23 of the Constitution and without prejudice to the safeguarding of civil protection actions in the event of such emergencies by forest fires, we must say, however, that the Decree-Law, in our view, comes in some respects further than basic legislation should be, a situation which could perhaps have been avoided if at the sectoral conference held four days before the adoption of the Decree-Law the autonomous communities had been informed of the emergency rule which was intended to be adopted immediately, its detailed content, if the draft had been distributed to them and given at least a minimum period for their observations. Perhaps if things had been done this way and not in a misguided way, this parliamentary group would not be in a position to point out the uncertainties and shortcomings we see in it. Thus, by entering into concrete considerations on the Decree-Law, I would like to point out that it should be clarified what is intended with the provision of a unified management in forest fires that affects more than one autonomous community when the General Administration of the State intervenes with the making available of its means, since if with this it is intended in a camouflaged way the constitution of a single command of extinction in the hands of the General Administration, we would not agree at all, since this only happens in the field of civil protection in situation 3, that is, when the emergency is declared of general interest. In other situations, the emergency is the responsibility of the person who has assigned it, without, logically, prejudice to the coordination mechanisms which, where appropriate, provide the General Administration with the structure of the organization and coordination of the emergency when providing means. With regard to the annual plans for the prevention and extinction of forest fires that replace the current special plans by expanding and taking into account the intersections of these annual plans with the special ones for civil protection for forest fires, I would like to point out that of those annual plans, in our view, cannot be preached, as is done in the decree law, which are instruments of preferential management for the whole of territorial policies, as if the mountains were goods of public domain by nature, which certainly are not, since it is within the competence of the autonomous communities - at least in the Basque Country - the territorial planning under their competence to manage the territory, in this case mountains, and therefore the hierarchy and the regulation of the sources of the territorial order are the responsibility of the local authorities. With regard to the functions assigned to AEMET in the decree for the determination - as has already been said - of meteorological risks, very high and extreme forest fires, and for the updating of the various prediction data on geo-referenced risk levels, I would like to say that we do not share it as it displaces the autonomous weather services and agencies provided for in their autonomous statutes to give climate and meteorological surveillance to other autonomous powers such as environmental, civil protection or, in this case, mountain. The Decree Law does not take into account this autonomous reality when predicting for its territorial scope the levels of meteorological risk with respect to a harmful event that does not exceed it territorially, such as forest fires, for the purposes of the application of pre-established limitations and prohibitions. And the same criticism must be made of the attribution to the MITECO of the zoning of the risk of forest fires of each autonomous community as a guiding element of planning or for the making of operational decisions; zoning which, by the way, is already carried out in the Basque Country, as well as the daily weather forecast of the risk of forest fires by climatic zones and municipalities. These issues are not only a matter of competition, but mainly of concern to activities likely to develop citizenship and economic sectors, mainly agricultural and forestry. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the model set out in the Decree-Law for these issues is that it undermines the system of operation in the Basque Country under its competence, which is based on contrasted risk indices, knowledge on the ground according to the different distribution of the territory in climatic zones and the very important knowledge of the existing plant material susceptible to combustion, and in a transparent manner, since each area knows its daily risk index and each municipality it has also assigned. With regard to the call in Article 2 for a future regulation under points (a) and (e), I would like to point out that it seems more like a blank referral with the aim of affecting the powers of self-organisation of the administrations responsible for the prevention and extinction services if the regulations are framed by excessive regulation, which we believe is inconsistent with the role of the regulations as a complement to the law in the determination of basic legislation. Finally, and it has ended, we do not share the deadlines that are set nor to draw up the new annual planning - in three months since the adoption of this decree law, minister, it will be practically impossible - nor for the prevention and extinction services to be adapted to the decree law on 1 January 2023, when the same Government gives another month to make the development of the decree law to which it calls article 2, which must also be taken into account for the regulation of the prevention and extinction services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen the tragedy of the fires this summer, a catastrophe that we continue to suffer today and that has already devastated more than 270 000 hectares in our country. We're talking about the worst year of fires in the last hundred years. That is why we are aware of the need to implement quiet measures to alleviate the effects of the fires in our country and to put everything necessary to prevent it from happening again. Although we understand that many of the measures included in this royal decree are in the right direction, we must also say that they are late and that, since their implementation, they have proved insufficient to stop the outbreak of new fires, as we have been living in recent weeks. In Citizens we have always defended the need to act preventively to address the problem of fires. In fact, after the first big fire declared this year in the mountain range of Culebra we put forward in this very House the so-called Plan Zamora; a plan designed also in collaboration with our representatives of the Diputation of the same region, with a series of measures to influence the prevention, reforestation and recovery after the fires. When we talk about fires - and this summer, unfortunately, we have had to do a lot - some groups in this House tend to extend their sectarianism and their ideological closure on a topic that should be the national priority and in which all measures should only be designed with common sense, because what is at stake here is our natural heritage, the livelihood of thousands of Spanish families and a drama that has incalculable economic, social and environmental consequences. It gives me a deep discouragement to see how the inks against climate change are loaded from the VOX rostrum, when science has demonstrated its direct relationship with this drama. Spain is precisely because of its geographical and climatic conditions a country with a high vulnerability to the impacts of climate change, and this has been demonstrated by the drought conditions, the heat wave, the high temperatures and also by the very important winds that we have suffered. But if dangerous is the anti-scientific position of VOX, the insistence of the Lords of Podemos on valuing everything to the climate impact on the planet is also reductionist and therefore wrong. The abandonment situation in our mountains and fields is a major factor in the existence of fires in our country. Administrations have given up investing in this management. Traditionally, it was done by shepherds, farmers and even farmers, who no longer have the chance to do so as before, and that has been a mistake. The worst is that this royal decree law does not prevent this from continuing to happen. Let us not continue to repeat the same mistakes and address the problem of fires from their origin, both of them, because here I have to remind the gentlemen of the People's Party that their responsibility in places where they govern is essential. For example, it is true that the inaction of the Government - of this one and of all those who have preceded it - and the lack of coordination with the rest of the levels of the Administration have sown this cropping stock for the drama that our country has experienced. But remember, gentlemen of the People's Party, that 50% of the area burned in Spain this summer has been in Castile and León, where Mr Mañueco's management with VOX has left much to be desired. And it is not worth blaming the central government alone, which has them, but it is also necessary to take action and to be responsible. Another problem we have seen with regard to fire prevention and detection has been the lack of troops. I think we must all have words of gratitude and gratitude to the professionals who have left behind, putting their own lives at risk and suffering marathon days to control the fires that have devastated Spain almost from end to end. The best way to recognize their unpayable work is to focus on devoting more human and economic resources to these prevention, detection and extinction efforts. We have seen images that we will not easily forget and that unfortunately are repeated every summer: firefighters fighting the fire, next to the fire, that was changing by the wind, even some leaving their lives; neighbors making human chains to help with cubes and aces to stop the flames, or families having to leave everything behind without knowing if they can come back. That is the reality of the fires that plague our country. As a country, we cannot let this happen again. We cannot go back to a fire incident like this summer with 30% of the necessary device. The worst thing, again, is that in this royal decree we find no measure aimed at improving the working conditions of forest workers. Nor do we see any major changes in measures that the Liberals have put on the table in these months, such as whether the EMU can intervene in fire response work or increase penalties, especially economic sanctions, for those who cause these fires. In short, although the royal decree is short and late, all that is to work to prevent a drama like this from happening again will count on our support. We cannot lose a minute, because all the effort will be insufficient if we do not put in place preventive measures to try to ensure that our country does not suffer this devastating wave of fires next summer. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, it seems good to us that the State is involved in recovery and regeneration and that it is even committed to financing these works of spaces affected by forest fires, but I must start by confessing that the BNG is concerned that it wants to do so directly in terms of financing, rather than opting for the transfer to the autonomous communities, since we are talking in our case of Galician competences. And there is a concern, which is related to the constant tendency to decentralization in each rule, in every royal decree law or in every bill of this Government. In any case, in relation to the text, it seems to us that the criteria laid down are in very restrictive cases, and, with regard to Galicia at least, it is not very much in line with our reality. I am talking, for example, about the requirement of a minimum area of 10,000 hectares burned. Look, this summer the fires devastated Galicia, but only two, that of O Courel and that of Valdeorras, exceeded that surface. We are talking about many fires, usually smaller, but some with devastating consequences, especially together, with a really important affected surface. Also in this royal decree law are included the aids to the shellfish workers and the shellfish workers of the ria of O Burgo, who will have to cease their activity for the work of dredging and regeneration, which will last about two years. It is a measure that the sector and the BNG spent months demanding, in the face of the surprising and unjustifiable policy of launching each other's responsibility, the Spanish Government and the Galician Government. Finally, rationality was imposed in order to take forward a measure which we believe is absolutely necessary. In any case, the BNG will support the validation of this royal decree law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u122	Thank you very much, President. More than half of Valencia's territory is forest area, an area that continues to increase due to the inexorable abandonment of land. The Valencians have the sad record of leading the abandonment of land, 160,000 hectares, to an average in the last years of six hectares a day, which on the one hand also explains the difficulty to put out the fires. Yesterday or the day before yesterday the former president of the Valencian Generalitat, Francisco Camps, came out in a photo, in a photo montage, behind the firemen, with white shirt, made a 'cayetano' - unpollutes the white shirt -, saying, in the end, that this was a priority. It has never been a priority for the People's Party. [[Protests]] In fact, the current Valencian Government of Compromís, PSOE and União Podemos has doubled the fire prevention and fire-extinguishing capacity in recent years. For the restoration of burnt areas, the People's Party spent zero euros for years. That's right, for all the puphos at Gürtel they had money. We, Mireia Mollà's councillor, have dedicated 54 million in 28 projects in recent years, and the current president of the Alicante Diputation has left many villages without any endowment for fire prevention. And we've done all that with absolutely ridiculous funding. To prevent, to put out fires, good funding is needed. The Valencians say with money, toasts. With these means we can control, prevent and extinguish many more fires. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u124	Thank you very much, President, Vice President. They can say that Spanish harmonisation attacks again because this royal decree takes us from a model of fire prevention and fight and extremely efficient self-government in Catalonia to a model of almost total state guardianship and interventionism. Instead of respecting what works and working in coordination, they lay down our competences. For example, it proposes to amend article 48 of the Montes Act, imposing unified planning from a Ministry of Ecological Transition that does not have the material or economic resources to act against forest fires because they are the responsibility of local or autonomous administrations. How are you going to decide what to do then? How will you plan, act, or intervene? In addition, an impossible implementation schedule is required: closed planning on 31 October and planned implementation on 1 January. Madrid, Navarra, Asturias and Catalonia have an integral model of firefighters, but Catalonia is the only one with support group of forest actions and with active forest prevention team. Only Catalonia works the prevention of fires with prescribed creams and extinction with controlled creams. The rest of the communities either face forest fires by hiring private management agency operators with public funding or seek help from the EMU. Do we intend to breastfeed for the effectiveness of the Catalan model? No, although we are proud of the job well done. What we are trying to do is to respect our competences from which we can continue to collaborate with other administrations in neighbouring territories, both Spanish and French. The royal decree law takes as reference AEMET, and rejects the Catalan agency for meteorological information, which determines whether there is a high or extreme fire risk, while the prohibitions and limitations of movement and access are activated by the autonomous communities. At the last hour, after the counting vote, we have been offered to correct this point in some real subsequent decree. Wasn't it easier to sit down and negotiate with us in time and end up passing the hose? How do the parties who take the defence of Catalonia's competences seriously intend to vote in favour of this royal decree? Instead of invading skills, take care of your own. For example, review the water reserve policy to prevent large hydraulics from opening gates to take advantage of high electricity prices. We are at the lowest levels in recent years, almost dry and with little maneuvering capacity. Another point. Fourteen years ago, the Socialist Government issued a royal decree to force electricians to put protections on towers and high-voltage wiring to avoid the electrocution of birds and the great risk of fire that these accidents entail. A game had to be provided to subsidize the electrics, but it was never activated, with which they still do not remedy many of the deadly traps for the birds and fill the mouth with prevention. I conclude with the subject of the agreements signed for cross-border cooperation with France. When a fire destroyed 420 hectares of the Cap de Creus Natural Park in Girona in July 2021, they refused to use French seaplanes because the protocol notes that they first use autonomous or state-owned means. Well, it was an action of serious irresponsibility of the government, which did not apply the convention signed in 2017, for the use of aerial means of extinction in case of mutual assistance by forest fires, against the basic principle of cross-border cooperation of the European Union, which seeks to eliminate borders. I said, don't step on our hose.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, I have the floor. Eritja Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u126	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, minister. I wanted to join in the words of support for the families of the victims of those fires, because they have really been fires of great suffering and have involved a lot of people, a lot of families and entire populations. In that regard, I believe it is important to reiterate the words you said at the beginning of your speech. [[Applauds]] This is a new decree of urgent measures to respond to extreme climate events. Let us remember that a real decree on urgent measures in support of the agricultural sector due to drought has also recently been adopted. We are always with real decrees trying to plug what are extreme climate phenomena with catastrophic consequences. What would in principle be ad hoc extreme weather events is that it is becoming increasingly common, in cases such as drought, they are structural problems that we have been dragging forward for decades and the real decrees continue to be short-term measures. I think it's important to keep this in mind. But, in a climate change scenario, which has a special impact precisely on the Iberian peninsula, prevention should be the premise in the policies of any Administration, rather than even urgent actions. On the one hand, the adverse effects of climate change are increasingly evident. Let us remember that already since June we are having long and sustained periods of temperatures above the climate average for those dates, and, therefore, the days of very high risk and extreme fire possibility have increased, as you said before. But it is no less serious the depopulation of the rural environment and the abandonment of the agricultural area, in favour of increasing the forest mass. This too is a fundamental issue and one on which we must insist. To greater vegetation, greater fuel load and accumulated energy, and therefore, we have landscapes with a great fuel load, which with extreme climatic factors come to be real bombs when all this is activated. Although virulence does not usually make it impossible to put out some fires, we know that there are fires that are impossible to put out. The limit to be able to extinguish a fire more ominous is set about 10 or 15 tons/hectare. It is feasible to put out a fire, but we know that there are forests where there are many more tons of forest fuel per hectare, so when that forest explodes it is impossible to intervene from within, and I think it is important to take this into account, because it is a key element of forest management itself. The only solution to this is sustainable forest prevention and management policies, and part of the solution is precisely to extract part of this energy sustainably and to reactivate and enhance the use of plant biomass. How do you do that? There are several methods, and I will give two examples. There is the issue of revaluing plant biomass; in other words, making the use of wood viable from the sustainable forest management model. Our group, Esquerra, has already tabled an amendment in the law of change, which was finally included in a seventh final provision, which states that the Government will adopt within a maximum period of one year the necessary rules for the development of the Law 43/2003 of 21 November of Montes, including the mandate of article 65, incentives for environmental externalities, to regulate the mechanisms and conditions for incentivizing the positive externalities of the ordered mountains, which has not yet been fulfilled and we are awaiting completion. Therefore, there are ways to start working on prevention issues, but work must begin. Or even, why not, including forestry, for example, among CAP aid in the future. I mean, if you want to look for resources, ways to avoid and manage the forest masses, I think there are mechanisms. Another solution, which has also been mentioned here, would be to recover the connection between plant biomass production and primary consumers that generate animal biomass. For example, the formula of extensive livestock farming applies to which sites, to which countries, and even to specific experiences in the Spanish State itself. The Girona Chamber of Deputies knows that it is working in this direction and that it gives concrete results that continue to strengthen an activity of the primary sector. In any case, these are some of the measures that would allow a forestry ecosystem sanitation strategy to benefit society and the natural environment. The investment in the forestry sector in 2018 at state level was of 35.38 euros on average, 21 euros per inhabitant, but of this amount only 3.25 euros go to prevention. I think we should reverse this, and probably with prevention we would have less risk, or at least we would have more control over the risks of possible devastating effects, such as those we had this summer. This forest management depends to a large extent on territorial planning policies, which are a clear competence of the autonomous communities. I understand that the Royal Decree proposes a law of minimums to homogenize, and we even share the need for coordination between administrations and the devices available for fire suppression, provided that the competitive framework is respected, but there are elements that distort this. Our vote will be conditional on the recognition of the territorial authority in two points: the definition of the annual plans for the prevention, monitoring and extinction of forest fires and the preparation of the forest fire risk map and meteorological data. In this sense, some points of the royal decree - which I am not going to comment on, because my comrades of the Basque Nationalist Party have already done so - do not guarantee these premises and involve even a competitive interference. In fact, our vote on this royal decree is subject to the public commitment of the Socialist Group and the current Government of Spain to modify four essential issues for our political formation in order to maintain our country's power over fires, and these are: first, to ensure the legitimacy of the Servivei de Incenció d'Incenció Forestals del Servei Meteorològic de Catalunya vis-à-vis AEMET, to shield the dominance of the competent territorial authority, to rectify all the unified leadership that would prejudice the competences of the autonomous statutes of the territories and, finally, a fourth point is to clarify the scope of the minimum qualification and PPE requirements in order to respect the competences of the autonomous communities. These are four elements that are evident to us regarding the violation of our competences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I believe that language debates are important. Lately, as I always hear about climate change, but little climate emergency, when we have a situation like that we have, I think it would be good that we focus, because we have a water crisis of unusual size and a climate emergency problem that, in addition, affects our country specifically in a process of brutal desertification; a Godzilla, popularly understood. And what it requires is the help of all our efforts, those of the General Administration of the State, those of the Autonomous Communities, the Chambers and all the local entities. There is a need for coordination, shared planning, starting with and respecting all the competences that enable us to deal with these phenomena. It is true that there is a key element, which we have seen this summer, and that the process of desertification has a huge effect on new-generation forest fires - not only forest fires - because it is true that new-generation fires are increasingly blurring the line between forest fires and urban fires, affecting urban centres and making, moreover, that, being such enormous phenomena, extinction services have to focus primarily on protecting urban centres as a central element. And that should make us think about changing the concept of security. Security isn't just public order. This is human security, the protection of the whole population, the protection of property and environmental protection as a central element of State policies, which should also be an agreement shared by all public administrations. This decree is interesting, this decree takes a step, this decree puts on the table what has already had to be done. And we've seen it very clearly this summer. We must cooperate among all public administrations, putting everyone's resources in order to ensure that we protect Mother Earth as a necessary and essential central element for human life. We and we believe that with this decree on the situation on the table, the government agreement that we have and must comply with in this area is fundamentally up to date. Because we talk a lot from the rostrum about the need and recognition of the work of the professionals who are playing the guy for all of us, but that has to be done and come up here and question whether we agree that someone who throws himself from a helicopter to a forest fire has to retire at age 67 or 60. That question must be answered. [[Applauds]] We have to talk about occupational diseases, we have to talk about working conditions, we have to talk about the savage precariousness that is being experienced in this public service, which is an essential public service, which affects emergencies, and there we have to put it among all and we have to push it among all. We cannot continue to afford to have people in the conditions in which they have them, sending them home for two, three, four months depending on how the campaign goes, when what we need right now are annual emergency contingents and direct public benefit. If anything is demonstrating what has happened so far, it is precisely that cuts, privatizations and outsourcings of public services endanger the environment and the lives of people in this country. [[Applauds]] And having to reverse that is everyone's responsibility. We and we here have to comply with our aliquot part, and here are those two key elements: the status of forest firefighters and the law of coordination, because, of course, there is no emergency and besides, the fault of all this, you know, it's got by the ecologists. And then we have autonomous parliaments wanting to legalize illegal wells at a time of brutal water crisis. What are we talking about? Are we going to keep saying that people do not look up, that there is no desertification process, that this is all a camel, when temperatures rise and the adverse weather phenomena that we are going to experience, which are also extremes, will have to face them in some way? What response will we give to citizens as a whole in order to cope with these processes? There is one, which is fundamental: strengthening public services, and in this it is good that we have raised the replacement rates, it is good that we start to reverse the cuts that Mr Montoro pushed. But there is the Montoro Law, being a dogal to prevent public services from developing properly in our country. We need to understand that public services are an essential element in the vertebration of the territory, in which we and we have to contribute as much as possible. And when we talk about extreme weather events, that means when we talk about emergency management... Of course, the fires come in the summer, but what will happen now with the will and other extreme weather phenomena that we have seen? We need to adapt emergency systems and coordinate all emergencies. We need the law on the coordination of extinguishing services, fire prevention and rescue to guarantee the rights of all citizens, to guarantee the life and integrity of people as a central element, and that must be a commitment of all. There can't be part-time firefighters charging ten bucks an hour and without social security coverage; it's not fair and it's not decent. [[Applauds]] Frankly, I believe that the commitment we have to get out of here in particular, of course, is to pass this royal decree, but the commitment is also what we have seen and that what works is coordination, that what works is mutual support between all administrations. That's what works and that's what we have to put the batteries all of us, in the defense of public services, in the defense of the people who play the guy for us and us. They must be matched, and they must be matched by improving their working conditions, ensuring their coordination and making public administrations a useful tool, not an obstacle to their work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, the recognition by this parliamentary group of those who work in prevention, surveillance and protection services; our regret to all those Spaniards in the rural world who have lost everything in these devastating fires and our condolences to the deceased. [[Applauds]] There are about 300 000 hectares of calcined land, including several protected areas of great ecological importance. Those who came to fight for biodiversity and sustainability with their 2030 agendas and their ecological demagogy are devastating our peoples and our fields for lack of prevention, by leaving and demagogy. [[Applauds]] In just seven years, since 2015 the People's Party put us on the 2030 agenda, fires multiply, biodiversity declines, rural depopulation accelerates and the profitability of the primary sector collapses. The demographic winter is raging in our rural areas and the fire is burning hundreds of thousands of hectares. You are climate change since you ruled with your 2030 agenda and destructive environmental legislation. If all this apocalyptic weather that the Minister has raised was so predictable, why have you done absolutely nothing? You pose us practically the end of the world and that there is nothing to do. That is the panorama that they pose us, it is like the song of Sinister Total, that poses us the extinction of the human race. The reality is that fires go out in winter; everyone knows this with a certain interest in avoiding fires. The environmental legislation that you and the former have developed for years prevents you from doing preventive work because of an excess of protectionism and bureaucracy, which often prevents you not only from expediting these tasks, but also from carrying them out. [[Rumors]] They don't seem to be very interested in my intervention. The plans for the management of natural spaces protected by the new environmentalist paradigm carried out by this Government and the People's Party, following these globalist environmentalist agendas in Brussels, are hell for the prevention and management of public and private mountains. We have as examples the radical eco-legislation in national parks, nature parks, reserves, Red Natura 2000. The competent administrations have drastically and exponentially reduced investment in reforestation and forest management - and this is a fact that can be seen. There are public farms that have burned, for example, in the province of Ciudad Real, whose firewalls had not been cleaned up due to bureaucratic problems in hiring management companies. For example, Agenda 2030's Sustainable Development Goal 15, the life of terrestrial ecosystems, challenges traditional practices associated with key sectors with extraordinary economic roots, such as deforestation, hunting or forest management, which have been tested as effective methods for the rural environment and fire prevention. The principle of human non-intervention in the natural environment, whether in management, conservation or exploitation, has become a quasi-religious principle of progressive politicians that is being devastating in Europe's human ecosystems. The Administration is prohibiting the intervention in the natural environment of people living in the rural world, forcing them to leave the countryside, a field that has been managed and transformed by man for thousands of years. This royal decree law has much more to do with the extinction of forest fires than with prevention, to which they play a secondary role. Prevention is essential. The requests, declarations and demonstrations of the entire technical community of our country involved in the extinction and prevention of forest fires have for decades been pointing to the large amount of forest fuel accumulated in our mountains and environmental policies imposed that do not favour forest management. [[Applauds]] Of the fourteen pages that comprise this royal decree law, only three and a half are those that refer to the article concerning the adoption of urgent measures in the field of forest fires. The article is full of repetitions and questions that are already being carried out and that do not bring anything new and, therefore, are a real toast to the sun. With regard to Article 1(3), we think that the amendment referring to the intercession of the State is appropriate, a fact which highlights important lack of coordination between some autonomous plans for extinction, rather because of political rivalries than because of strictly technical factors, as it should be. Let us remember that the Montes Act that was amended was developed by the People's Party in 2003, verifying for decades the lack of coordination by the transfer of all fire skills to autonomous communities outside the Spanish State. Another failure of that autonomous fundamentalism that everyone shows. [[Applauds]] The article, while we see it very necessary and widely demanded by the different regional extinction devices, we call it unambitious and urge the Government to develop it in a regulation at the national level that definitely homogenizes at the national level what has been demanding for decades the emergency services of forest fires and the state security bodies and forces. In short, the royal decree law in no way solves problems, but rather becomes complicated by its indefiniteness, redundancy and administrative overload over existing legislation. It is also a missed opportunity to address truly important issues such as specific regulation, with regard to the serious problem of forest fire prevention in the urban forest interface. In VOX we are clear that for our mountains, our rural world and our biodiversity to continue to exist it is necessary for you to leave the government urgently and for VOX to develop your agenda, which is Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chamorro. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want my first words on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to be of sympathy and affection to the families of those who died in the fires this summer and to acknowledge the work of the state security forces and bodies during all these months that have been protecting the security of the Spanish and working tirelessly to restore normalcy in those territories affected by the fires. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the worst year of fires in the 21st century. Spain is a leader in Europe in burnt hectares; unfortunately, we lead in Europe the destruction of our landscapes, our forests and our ecosystems. Your speech, Madam Vice-President, today is the expression of a failure, yours, in the fight against fire. Today we come to this plenary to validate a real decree to combat fires that will not respond to the problems that our country has. A royal decree that has not been negotiated or agreed with the Autonomous Communities. Madam Vice-President, listening to her, it seemed to me that more than a minister you were a lecturer, and here you don't come to give lectures or comment on the play or the present. Here we are responding to the problems of the Spanish, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] It is surprising that you come here today to say that action must be taken. We would like to know, then, what steps you have taken during these nearly four years in which you have the responsibility at the head of the ministry. You're late and you're wrong. And it's late because the strategic firefighting guidelines in our country have been in a drawer for more than three years, since 2019. Following what you were saying, I don't think you've taken it very seriously. This royal decree, I insist, is insufficient, precarious and does not respond to the real problem of fires in our country, which is prevention. To the absent Mr Baldoví I would like to mention: lessons to the PP in fighting fire, not one. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] The Alicante Parliament has already met with mayors and has announced a package of measures for the municipalities affected by the Vall d'Ebo fire, and I recommend that you speak with Mr Puig and Mrs Mollà to pay the more than 20 million euros that the Council owes to the consortia of firefighters, because that is what you have to do and not instruct you to come here to criticize the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President, your ministry does not work; it is the focus of the last three years. With regard to water, it has broken the whole consensus; with regard to coasts, dogmatism and attack on the economy of our coast; in demographic challenge and the fight against depopulation I would not know what to say, Madam Vice-President, I cannot even criticize your policies because they are non-existent. If we talk about energy, much has already been said here today and we just have to see the bills our spokesman has shown, we are paying the most expensive electricity in our history. Finally, it seems that the Government's purpose is to take away from the Spaniards the possibility of knowing how many natural resources we have in our country, such as lithium for the batteries of our cars. It seems to you that it matters more that lithium comes from countries where human rights are unknown rather than coming, for example, from Extremadura. Madam Vice-President, this royal decree is unconsensuous. It has not been talked to the opposition, it has not been talked to the autonomous communities, nor has it been announced in the sectoral council with the autonomous communities, neither with the official schools nor with the municipalities, and there is the complaint of the Official College of Engineers of Montes that it warns that the elimination of fire plans in high-risk areas is extremely serious. This royal decree reveals, Madam Vice-President, two things: the first, that you have not understood anything, that it is not only a question of extinguishing, that we must prevent, and the second, that you only remember the fires when you see smoke on the mountain. There is one issue I would like to highlight, Madam Vice-President. Can you explain to us what the fires have to do with the help of the shellfish in La Coruña? I could give that explanation, because it has been waiting for more than three years for his Government to move. Your incompetence and your responsibilities have been held unassisted for many months, Madam Vice-President. You have to give many explanations and take responsibility. For example, why is a budget line of European funds being emptied that could be allocated perfectly to forest fire prevention in our country? Madam Vice-President, in the area of fires, I will not say that all the blame is yours, but that rural Spain is abandoned is your fault; that there are no policies against depopulation, that farmers and regents are being attacked from your ministry and that crops are being abandoned, increasing the risk of fires, is your fault; that every year there are fewer ways to fight fire is your fault, and that is the Monfragüe case and we will ask for responsibilities. It is your fault that you have not allocated the necessary European funds to combat fires in our country; that we continue without special drought plans, because the basin plans have not been updated, it is your fault; that Spain does not have a strategy to combat fires is your fault, and that today we are here debating a real decree in which you delegate everything to the autonomous communities without talking about financing it is your fault. Finally, Madam Vice-President, it is your fault that we are on our way, if we do not avoid it, to become the first desert in Europe with its policies. [[Applauds]] There is much to be done and the first thing we have to do is an intelligent approach based on a simple reflection: how much does it cost to extinguish a fire and recover the territories affected by a fire and how much would it cost to avoid a fire? We have to work on prevention; we have to work on supporting extensive livestock farming, farmers and forestry. We must also support the stimulation of biomass as a clean and renewable source that is on our mountains and that we can use. Madam Vice-President, the idea that illogical ecology is right has failed. Not touching forests is not the solution, not taking advantage of natural resources is not the solution, and not being able to involve human beings in the environment and nature is not the solution. Your speech here today shows...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u133	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u134	... That three years later you have failed in the fight against fires in our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u136	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, in this case, and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, we discussed the validation of Royal Decree-Law 15/2022 on two important issues. The first is the subject of changes in the Mountain Law to be more effective in the problem of forest fires, and ladies and gentlemen, with this in mind, first of all, to protect the general public, and also to protect the professionals who leave their skins day by day to save us from this catastrophe, but also to protect our mountains, because we never forget the very valuable environmental service that it provides to our forest surface, almost 30% of the territory, and that benefits society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to take forest fire prevention measures because of the effects of climate change. And the Government of Spain has been courageous and has taken action within our constitutional framework, ladies and gentlemen. I will repeat this twice in this intervention - because some are still in the first of constitutionalism -: the competences are of the autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] But how can we go up here and not recognize that within the competence of our State this is the competence of the autonomous communities, that the Government of Spain has only a few powers? Perhaps you can no longer reach more than with this royal decree, ladies and gentlemen; you have gone as far as you can. Indeed, with regard to the competitive framework of our country - and I will then refer to it in more detail - if we had not seen this summer, ladies and gentlemen, the necessary collaboration between administrations and the collaboration between citizens in order to put a stop to the great wave of forest fires, we would probably have been in a different situation. The predictions from the reports of experts and scientists who told us that the effects of climate change, by increasing the temperature, will bring forest fires with alarming consequences, here we have them. So, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in this case, negationism is the same as activism of ignorance, because that is what you, with your claims in this Chamber and outside, are doing, activism of ignorance. [[Applauds]] The second parameter of this royal decree is also important, ladies and gentlemen, and seeing the People's Party, Mr Sánchez, I say to you: you have been told to say these questions and surely you have not been informed. But if it was Mr Feijóo who agreed with Mrs Tejerina on 50% aid to shellfish farmers, who then did nothing at the dredging and was stopped for a long time because of these policies! Why do they come now to draw lessons, if it is the Government that has put it in motion? [[Applauds]] At least find out. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out something important to us here too: coherence and responsibility. The Government approved in the sectorial of 28 July, for consistency and responsibility, exactly the strategy marked by CLIF, which is the scientific body, the agency of experts that in our country has been developing, for many years, policies of collaboration between administrations with forest fires. And it approved with consensus in this sector, these strategic guidelines which is where this royal decree law comes from, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, this parliamentary group - and I say this clearly to all groups that have put some sort of manifestation of doubt - of course has maximum respect for the competition framework. I also respect what Mr Eritja has said about the need for improvement. Of course, there is a commitment to do so. There is no problem because we are in that line, in collaboration with the Catalan Agency and the Basque Meteorology and with all that could be, because there is no other remedy than collaboration and coherence. So, ladies and gentlemen, in this respect - some other parliamentary group has also said - the Spanish Government has no interest whatsoever in cooperation, not invading powers and, of course, we are prepared to clarify where and when it is necessary. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, in this case to tell the People's Party something that has caught my attention. Mr Sánchez has used the word coherence on at least two occasions, I believe, and has referred to the need for cooperation. And I say to you: do you know that this morning in the Cortes de Castilla y León you voted against, by the People's Party and VOX, the appearance of the president of the Junta de Castilla y León, Mr Mañueco, in Pleno, to give an answer, as Mr Puig did in Valencia, to the biggest wave of fires that we remember in the territory? I am a Member of the Segovia and therefore of Castile and León. 60% between Galicia and Castile and León has been burned in our country, and do they not even recognise this collaboration between administrations? They don't look at Castile and Leon, but they come here to say where the government doesn't look. You guys have this incoherence. In addition, check out what your colleagues say in Castile and León, that the operation is not necessary all year round. [[shows a press clipping]] But how can we come to talk about forest fires so inconsistently? Ladies and gentlemen, this is unheard of. [[Applauds]] The autonomous communities for a long time realized that they had to provide resources, funding, and operational improvements. And they have done so, except mine, except Castile and Leon, who since 1999 has not moved a coma and, moreover, with obvious negligence, because the fires of the Sierra de la Culebra had the burden of declaring it medium danger with 40 or temperature, with 50 kilometers of wind speed and with a relative humidity below 20%. That is to have a quilt, not to call it another way, ladies and gentlemen. So, with emergency situations, I think we should all have a high eye, look at the effectiveness of our territory. I'm going back to his autonomic skills. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not tire of saying this because some people are forgetting the way, of course, they are interested. After 50 big fires in our country this summer, with 229,000 hectares affected, if the government had done nothing, they would have come here to complain. The Government acts within its competence to coordinate and collaborate. Are you against the fact that the government in a law like this, the Mountain Law, has a clear 50 % funding for fires in the territories? Do you have any problems in which all the country's means of extinction work 365 days a year? That's doing politics: looking at problems by proposing solutions. Now the ball is on your roof.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u137	Mr. Aceves, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u138	I'm done, Madam President. I'm sorry. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I simply have to tell you that in order to have the first government you have in Castile and León and to defend the rural environment, they are being burned on all four sides. So with the occurrences of their counselors, which is doing concerts and signing jerseys, they're not going to turn off any fires. On the contrary, surely all your citizens are laughing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Aceves.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u140	We continue with the amendment adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u141	Thank you, President. Minister, this week Clara Serra publishes an article in the prestigious magazine Jacobin in which she begins by saying: 'Many more women, from our grandmothers to teenagers of the trap generation, know that feminism has to do with them'. And this is the best news to start the course, feminism, feminism, popular and revolutionary movement, are massive, and this explains that today there are feminist ministers and that there are feminist laws. But today this law has lost the opportunity to improve those aspects that we have already pointed out in the previous debate and that have not been improved, let us say. There is only one amendment in the preamble to the law, but not in the article. The first problem we have with the law is that it leaves everything in the hands of the Criminal Code, and this has two problems. The first... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's a little awkward for you to talk all the time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u142	Yes, Mrs. Vehi. I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u143	I don't know if in all subjects there is the same buzz, it seems that when talking about feminism and sexual violence matters less. He said the first problem we have with the law is that it leaves everything in the hands of the Criminal Code. First, it formulates consent, as would the Penal Code, i.e. as a binomial - yes or no - as if it were a switch, but it is obvious that consent is much more complex and sexual relations are so. And the second question concerning this is that, as most of the law's interventions in the Criminal Code delegate, it maintains two fictions: the first is that tougher laws are missing, but we think that no, the Spanish Penal Code is hard; and the second is that only with more punishment will violence be ended, and we think that it is not true because there are more than fifty-nine murdered women. Moreover this summer has passed a phenomenon that seems to us of great interest and which explains this that we want to manifest, which is the subject of punctures. Everyone knows what I'm talking about, this summer they've become popular at the parties that women get pinched for chemical submission, and by the end of summer it turns out that most punctures didn't have drugs, which were to terrorize women. Is the fact that the law incorporates chemical submission positive? Obviously, this is a necessary step because it was something that was not incorporated in the area of violence. That only the Criminal Code addresses this issue solves the problem? Of course not. In fact, it is a reaction, it is a gesture, it is a message to say: if you make laws, we will answer. This authoritarian and masculine response explains precisely that the Criminal Code alone does not serve. In fact, it is a response to which Rita Laura Segato would call the lordship, that you know you own, that you know you are ours; that is, a violent reaction of masculinity to the advances of the feminist movement. How do I stop this? For understanding patriarchy as a total system, which has to do with economic, social and political inequality between men and women and which requires further action, apart from the Criminal Code. It is necessary, of course, that the laws penalize patriarchy but the Penal Code alone cannot do so, because they punish you as a man, in a world in which everything pushes you to be man and to prove your power, has very short legs. If the girls in summer want to frighten the girls, it is because they are marking power, and it is obvious that it is urgent to treat masculinity from a feminist perspective. In this law there is not a single measure for men, we have moved from educating their children to protecting their children. This seems to us to be not a transformative feminist perspective. In fact, it places the responsibility on women to report again. We can denounce everything, even the pyrops, but, of course, in an exclusively patriarchal judicial system the Spanish judges would not be characterized by being the standard of feminism. In fact, there are more cases of ladies in prison running away with their children so that their abusers don't kill them. But this law only makes us more responsible because now we can denounce everything, but they are not focused. And if we don't treat masculinity, we give it to the extreme right, we give it to these people with concepts like gender ideology, who recruit men angry with feminism who end up pinching the girls so they'll be afraid when they come out, so they know they're someone's property. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Do you mind? If you militate against feminism, you justify violence; your speeches are not empty. I continue with the second problem that this law has from our perspective: the illegal advertising of prostitution. This issue obviously deals with the conception of sexual work from a feminist perspective. We do not intend to open a debate on the sex of angels, this is talking about prostitution in abstract and it is an irresolvable debate. We intend to talk about materiality. There are women who engage in prostitution and, therefore, feminism must fight for their rights, because if these women do not have rights, the violence they may suffer is much higher. If advertising is pursued among female sex workers, they are forced to attract clients in alternative ways, which increases their vulnerability, and that they are more vulnerable does not end prostitution, ends their rights. If we talk about abolishing prostitution, because we think it is patriarchal violence - it is a legitimate argument - but we do not point out or deal with the law of aliens, either we are lying or we do not understand violence in all its complexity, because the majority of sex workers do not have roles, they are migrants and, therefore, we are condemning them to double and triple institutional violence. It's what Hill Collins wrote about the other inappropriate ones, she told them. Either legislation is in place to protect the weakest, or what is being done is to include them within the framework of law. These are our two major issues with this law, we already referred to them in the previous debate and repeated them again because the law passed has passed through the Senate and has returned in the same way. We're done with an allegation. For us, feminism must be the movement of women and all those gender dissidents, sexual dissidents and even men who want a future in freedom. The political capacity for feminism not to be a group of victims depends on our ability to be more and more, to set up an invincible, massive and diverse political device, firmly committed to patriarchy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u145	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by referring to the need to maintain the greatest legal rigour in legislative processes, because the law that we are bringing here again today with the Senate amendment deserves to be in force, what it would deserve is to have had legal speed to avoid situations, such as that only by a change of word - from 'forced' to 'forced' - today is not in force. That is the problem, which is not in force because parliamentary procedures have not been adequate. Therefore, the first thing I want to do is to appeal to the professional rigour itself and to the greatest possible flexibility, because what we all want is for this law to come into force and protect the needs of those who are victims of sexual violence and aggression. In the end - and this is important - we have 400,000 sexual assaults, 100,000 of them against minors and 85% of the victims are women. These are the data that we have now, these are the data that we must address in this House. We must do so without populism, without political labels, without the need for appropriation of the defence of equality, because the defence of equality should be a defence of the whole House, even in matters such as this, which should be of concern to all of us, such as the aggressions and group aggressions which unfortunately continue to occur in our country. This rule has improved the scope of consent, incorporated the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, incorporated the recommendations of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State in this same area. That is why, in Citizens from the beginning, we have said that we agree with the regulation of consent itself. At the same time, we have explained that what this reform does is to incorporate the work done by Mr Catalá, the Minister of Justice of the People's Party, who asked the codification committee, composed of legal experts, that what we wanted was not to reoccur in our country cases such as that of La Manada. For those who oppose this, will anyone agree that when a woman is assaulted by several persons, several men, can be punished with less punishment than when it comes to an individual case? Is it fair that a group violation in our country has the legal possibility of a lower penalty than when it is individual? It is a legal anomaly that we have an obligation to resolve, and we also have an obligation to resolve it because we have to support our judiciary so that it can properly carry out its work. We must amend the law so that there are sufficient tools for our judges to give a proportionate and fair answer, and that is why we are here and that is why Citizens support this proposal, a proposal which, in addition, incorporates the recommendations made by the Istanbul Convention not to distinguish between abuse and sexual assault. I think it is important that on such a serious issue, on which we are unfortunately seeing that group violations are still being maintained, let us work seriously. That is why I ask that the proposal be supported, that it be supported as much as possible, that the messages not be distorted. When we talk about equality issues, when we talk about issues that affect women, that affect vulnerable groups, on many occasions they misrepresent messages and reach our society in an unscrupulous way. I appeal to the rigour of each of us when we launch certain messages. There are also improvements, and I am referring now to chemical submission. Like me in summer - and this happens a lot because young people go out more to discos, they go out more from parties -, how many of you - and launched the message for those who oppose this type of legislation - have not felt uncertainty and fear that when mainly their daughters, nieces, sisters, go to a disco, go out of the way, put them in the Burundian drink? Haven't you felt it? Because I'm a mother and I have a teenage daughter and I'm sorry when she says she's going out. Therefore, the amendment to article 179 of this law, which increases the penalty, seems to me to be entirely correct. Similarly, do they not consider that a person should be penalized more when he/she takes advantage of the fact that a person is vulnerable, in this case, that a person has a disability, so that he/she is the victim of sexual assault? Is it not consistent that a greater penalty should be taken into account in this case? Don't you worry about the attacks and harassment that many women are getting on the Internet? It is that those who do not worry, those who misrepresent messages in this line, I think they have a blindfold to take away, but thinking of the interest of our society, of the interest in the work from where we want to move with our young people, with the real defense of equality. We have helped this rule to have some technical improvements with the amendments we proposed here in Congress, to include the need to avoid conduct in residential institutions and prisons, to include the request for location control through telematic means, to have improvements in the repair of damage, to have an important improvement, such as the removal of the rental third party from this legislation, which was the only thing it did to interrupt and generate situations of vulnerability to women who freely engage in prostitution. What I regret is that forced sterilization has not been included as one of the forms of violence in the enumeration that was established, because forced sterilization is not established as a form of violence, as claimed by CERMI, as claimed by certain international organizations in the field of equality. I welcome the completion of the process, the progress we can make in the fight against sexual violence, because I believe that in the end we are in this challenge to improve the defence of real equality in our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comuno, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u147	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Parliament's dynamics mean that today we are once again debating, because of a technical amendment already incorporated and that we will vote in favour, a law that is crucial for life, for women's freedom. I was commenting these days with other spokespersons who would already have to be running and that today was more than debated - debated here and conquered on the street by the feminist movement and by all the people who raised the voice to say that it is only yes -, but reading this morning an article by journalist Isabel Valdés I have thought about all the way we have had to get to this law today, and the truth is that I don't want the parliamentary machinery, sometimes so incomprehensible and sometimes tedious, to take away the joy of consolidating this advance today; an advance that takes a lot of fight back and also - I think it has been heard in previous interventions - a lot of damage back, which broke with the silence because there were brave women who raised the voice and put the body. I am excited to read the survivor of the July 7, 2016 assault of Sanfermines saying: this is not my law, it is the law of all women; 'pa'vante'. [[Applauds]] Because yes, I think it's a little your law, because when we open up a fight for justice and rights, we do the way for everyone. It's yours and it's every woman who's broken the wall of silence that's existed over sexual violence. Count it, proposed the writer Cristina Fallarás, and they told it. We counted it. The Ministry of Equality of this coalition government, which was agreed on the basis of measures that became mandatory, including the commitment to have this rule that is finally approved today, heard; it listened by doing a macro survey so that we would understand in numbers, which is to understand in lives, the magnitude of these violences. Only 8% of women who have suffered sexual violence have reported it, 25.9% did not report it out of shame, 20.8% for fear of not being believed. We will not have full democracy until these violences are fought. This law is of every woman who said: it is not abuse, it is rape; it is of every young woman who came out to say: sister, I do believe you, and this law is also of that older woman with whom we Korea many on March 8, 2018: alone, drunk, I want to get home. It is the law of each of the women who have claimed rights by breaking a inertia that has denied them since silence, a 'don't say it', what it means 'don't do it', because silence increases guilt, and that's all it does is feed the violence. This is the law of all, it is for all, for all women, and as it is an advance in rights, it is also for all people, so that we live in a better society, so that our standards are up to the standards of our people. This law is also for their detractors, it is not going to take away anything from those women who say, with deep maximism, that we are not victims, leaving there to be victims, preventing their reparation and that they cease to be victims, because when they deny that this exists they refuse to recognize that there are survivors, that they are by force and because there are support networks. This law does not remove anything from any of these detracting persons and gives them much, because this law makes it a guarantee that there is an accompaniment for all without exception. This law seeks to change the mentality in education, in health, in the media, in culture. That is why we are talking about this as an integral law that is not limited only to the Criminal Code, and whoever worked it knows it. The laws go behind the citizenship, yes, but putting black on white what fought in the struggles changes our cultural and social construction, let it be written that this advance is already a reality. After years of expert work in this Parliament, in the Ministry of Equality, in the coalition government, today, as a Member, I just want to thank you, because as complicated as it may be, feminism has been the compass in this social justice claim. Thanks to all feminists who have defended the right to guarantee sexual freedom from their sphere of work, action, because there have been verbal attacks, in the press, in the networks and also non-verbal attacks, there have also been physical attacks. This is the case, and this must also be said, because the feminists' response has been not to give up in the effort because in it we go life and freedom, but freedom with vital capitals, not the freedom to take canes from the young men. Life and freedom go to us, because male political violence exists. So let me thank the entire team of the Ministry of Equality, and especially Minister Irene Montero, who has incarnated, who you have incarnated, despite everything, that indispensable maximum of Angela Davis, that of not accepting the things that cannot be changed, but changing the things that we are not willing to accept. So, today, definitely, we're a little better country. Feminist compañeras, 'pa'vante', which we follow.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u149	With the venom. Today we are dealing with a more or less reasonable amendment of an infamous law, which is the law of sexual freedom, and I say that this amendment is a reasonable means because in VOX of course we are against female genital mutilation, and we are also against male genital mutilation, because it exists, although you believe that man is born with an invisible armor and that he cannot suffer aggression. We are also against forced sterilization, against forced abortion, because we believe that forced abortion is a form of violence against women and children, but I want to make it clear that abortion that is not forced is the worst form of violence because it ends the life of an innocent child. [[Applauds]] Its own anti-gender violence shingle estimated two years ago that in Spain there are some 15,562 girls who are susceptible to genital mutilation. Its mutilators come from, guess where, exactly, from countries where genital mutilation is practiced. [[Laughter]] In view of this, you propose to develop protocols. Is this really a matter of protocols? Wouldn't it be better to admit once your'multicleti' roll doesn't work? Is it not time to give in to the evidence that indiscriminate immigration will be very good for you to seem supportive but causes very serious problems for the Spanish on foot? That is why the amendment leaves its inconsistencies to the naked. Aren't all cultures the same? Are they not their customs and must they be respected? Let's see if it's going to be that VOX was right and there are cultures that don't respect women, let's see if the feminist today is going to be realizing this uncomfortable truth: that we have to close the door in the face to people who come to Spain to attack women. [[Applauds]] However, what is serious is not the amendment, it is a lesser evil within the great festival of infamy, which is this law, which, with the excuse of protecting women, wants to inoculate ideology by charging itself with rights. They have already broken equality before the law with the law of gender violence, they have broken the presumption of innocence, they have already crossed that line of non-return, because when the rulers undermine a fundamental right, there is no turning back. That's why there are first times we can't afford, because nothing is the same after them: the first time you cheat; the first time you steal; the first time you pardon the thief, lords of the PSOE; the first time you cheat saying you won't pardon the thief, but you pardon him. President Sánchez is a serial liar and the Spaniards have taken many infidelities from him; fortunately, there is nothing left for Spanish society to sign the divorce suit and put their bags at the door. [[Applauds]] But first he intends to leave us this law, which is another brick in the wall of sexual apartheid suffered by men in Spain. Now I ask the men who are in the Chamber to imagine for a minute that they had a consensual sexual relationship with a woman, or that they did not even have a relationship with a woman, and the woman denounces them. His friends, his acquaintances, his family, his coworkers, his children and, as the process goes on, the people who know him say: he will be guilty, because if the woman accuses him and as the woman never lies... To all this we must add that Minister Irene Montero puts a tweet where she says that he is guilty, without proof. Add to this that in every process you will not be able to see your children by the infamous article 94 of the Civil Code. Imagine for a second that this happens to you. Isn't this violence? Is it not political violence, is it not institutional violence against men, is it not a flagrant violation of the presumption of innocence? [[Applauds]] I told them that yes, that of course it is, because the goal is not to protect women, it is to destroy men; that is, the white man, because after the law of gender violence, this is the most racist, homophobic and sexist law there is. [[Applauds]] This law criminalizes a race, the white one; it protects a sex, the woman, and it only protects a sexual orientation, the 'hetero'. All this misconception about a measure of unproven consent, whose only purpose is for the white man to fall. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the end will never justify the means. A woman's word is worth nothing more than that of a man because she is a woman, and a woman's rights are worth nothing more than a man's rights because she is a woman. There are personal dramas, situations of sexual violence that we must combat, but neither violence is fought with injustices, nor the woman is defended by attacking the man, nor is she defended by propaganda that the man is aggressive per se, nor are you anyone to get into anyone's bed, nor do you have to tell us how we have to copulate, nor does Mrs Montero have to tell us. [[Applauds]] Men and women are equal in dignity, and any law or ideology that violates this principle is a rotten law and ideology. VOX will always be with anyone who is a victim of sexual violence, we don't care if she is a woman or a man, a child or a girl, and we will work for fair laws that don't criminalize half the country. We want laws that advocate for the toughening of penalties so that sexual aggressors are in jail and not on the street, laws that keep away from our borders, our neighborhoods and our streets to those who come here to assault women not respecting our sexual freedom. [[applause]] As Emile Zola said, the truth is on its way and nothing will stop it. More and more Spaniards are fed up with the consequences of their gender laws, more and more women are sick of going insecure on the street because of the herd rapes that cannot be talked about; more and more women are sick of their feminism that oppresses us and speaks on our behalf; more and more women are sick of hell that pass through their men, and more and more men are sick of the insecurity that women suffer and tired of being always suspected of being men. More and more Spaniards open their eyes to the truth and will take them out of power with the plethoric joy of a liberated animal. Ladies and gentlemen, let him report it. Let him prove it. The rapist, to prison; the protective mothers who report falsely and kidnap the children, to jail; the immigrants who sexually assault, to their country; the discriminatory laws, to trash, and you, totalitarians who do not protect women and who make a hell of the life of innocent people, to the street. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, who have stood up. - Mrs. Carvalho Dantas asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u150	What article are you asking me for the floor with, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u151	Thank you, President. In accordance with article 103, paragraph 1, because offensive messages have been sent to the decorum of this House and against migrants.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u152	Please refer exactly to those expressions. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u153	It's been mentioned twice. The first time it has been said that people come to rape women. [[Rumors. - Mrs. Toscano de Balbín: I didn't say that!]] And the second time, almost at the end, he referred to almost the same thing. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 103, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, for the dignity of all migrants, our parliamentary group would like to see what has been said withdrawn. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho Dantas. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u155	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating for the umpteenth time this draft law on the integral guarantee of sexual freedom, but I do not think anyone will dare to predict that it will be the last vote of this text, not even what will be the result of its parliamentary process, since all that could have happened around this text has already happened, even if the ministry has seen its planned Summer Day campaign, publicity around the slogan "Yes, it is a feast; this will be the summer of consent and "Yes, it is", the theme we are going to sing has two letters, that and i. This summer we celebrate the Festival of Consent, do you join? Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, during this month we have been able to hear how they have thrown to the four winds the slogan that the People's Parliamentary Group prevented the adoption of the rule through an amendment in the Senate that was unexpectedly included in the text. I would like to remind you that the amendment was tabled by Junts per Cat and that the People's Parliamentary Group has the right to vote yes or no to what it deems most appropriate. I'd miss more! [[Applauds]] But I would also like to remind you that this amendment was voted in the Senate by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, Ciudadanos, Adelante Andalucía, More Madrid or Coalition Canaria, among other groups. I would also like to remind you that, although they repeated on numerous occasions that the amendment only changed one letter - we just heard it a moment ago -, the truth is that it is not so, as you well know. The amendment amends a qualifying article, which goes on to classify two different substantives and not one, as in the text referred to the Senate. Judging by the proposals and actions of the Ministry of Equality, precision is not the word that best defines its task, so neither does it surprise us anything that in this case gave them a little like the detection of cases of forced abortion and forced sterilization or abortion and forced sterilization, which was what the Senate text put in place. Therefore, stop blaming the People's Parliamentary Group for what is the result of the combination of its own lack of foresight, its recklessness and the weakness of its parliamentary support. Our position on the text of the law that is being debated today is well known to you. Recognizing that the State Covenant against Gender Violence considered it necessary to draw up a specific law on sexual violence that affects women in the majority, this, Minister, is not the law we would have liked to support. It is a law that will not be used to prevent the victim from re-investigating whether or not there was consent and which, however, can bring insecurity with it, as the mandatory reports have shown. With regard to the system of prevention, intervention, protection and recovery that is being put in place, we have nothing to object to, as it basically reproduces the system established in Organic Law 1/2004 of comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence. The return of the law to Congress was not, however, the only storm that dazzled the radiant festive summer imagined by the Ministry of Equality. It is irrevocable that now that you have been discovering endless discrimination and inequalities that affect Spanish women for three years, in many cases without most of them realizing that you have been treated unevenly, now that your team, Mrs. Montero, not only discovers these problems and inequalities and reveals them as a prophet to a citizen who, at least, is a little lost because he had not realized it, and in addition this team provides a solution to that inequality, the sun should shine splendidly in the lives of Spanish women, without a single cloud on the horizon. They have no place in that spectacularly blue sky neither unemployment nor inflation nor the bills of light, gas, water, electricity, nor the next return to school, only that Yes is an endless feast in which we should have lived - because unfortunately it could not be so - our sexuality and our body as, with whom and when we had chosen, without judgments and without fear. We would have to have made up like monkeys or not at all, to have chosen the length of our skirt or the height of our neckline, to have gone out without fear and to have shined, because the stage was ours. As you can imagine, these phrases are not mine, they are from the campaign I just mentioned. All this was promised to us and could not be, because the law of 'only is yes' was not passed in time to give us entry into that paradise that Equality designed brightly and securely. In case you haven't noticed, ladies and gentlemen, the ministry designs for us a world of fun not exactly like Disneyland, but just as glittering. A new calamity was looming over the ministry, and again it had to do with the summer. The Yes Yes Fest was a party that had to include all women, of all kinds and colors, and that is why we imagined a past in which fat women, women with some disability or those who have had conmastectomy breast cancer were subject to discrimination on the beaches, from which from now on they could not be expelled, since, as pointed out by the campaign designed by the Ministry of Equality to solve this imaginary problem, the summer is also theirs. And so that we all know on that inclusive beach, on July 27 they launched a new campaign using illegally the images of three different women, changing to their liking, removing one prosthesis from one leg, another a breast and using the others without the consent of the protagonists. [[Show a picture]] Not even, Minister, have you publicly apologized to the women you have molested with the manipulation of your photos. It is not worth saying that the designer is to blame and that you are victims of that same manipulation, that you did not know that the typography had been used without permission, that the images of the different women had also been used without such permission. Responsibility lies with you for your way of choosing not only the professionals and companies you work with, but also for that obsession to interfere in women's lives, urging them to act as you seem to have to. [[Applauds]] In addition, I remind you that we do not yet know how much the campaign cost and that you are circulating in networks and media contradictory news about what you paid for this dip. An important issue, and a term. You forget that you govern, minister, for adult women, women who have their own opinions, who govern their own destiny and lives, and that in many cases you were already working so that no one would impose anything on them before you and your team were even born. [[Applauds.-Mrs.Montesinos de Miguel: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u156	Thank you, Mrs. González. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u157	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by regretting the latest gender-based violence killings in our country. [[Applauds]] There are 28 women killed in what goes on in the year; 1158 women killed since 2003. They kill us for being women and we're tired, we're tired. [[Applauds]] With regard to the subject that brings us to this plenary session, I would like to thank the Minister for her presence here. Welcome, Minister. I will be brief, because we Socialists and Socialists have repeated on numerous occasions what our position on this law is, but I want to highlight and share here with you three issues. The first is that this was a necessary law, completely necessary; this law is also the achievement of the demand of the feminist movement, which I want to thank especially from here. Spain needed a specific law against sexual violence in order to comply also with international commitments regarding the persecution of sexual assaults suffered by women and girls. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women was ratified by Spain in 2014 and is known as the Istanbul Convention. This convention has its own evaluation mechanisms, the PREVIO reports, and the PREVIO report for Spain of 2020 noted that Spain was a benchmark country in the fight against gender-based violence, in the area of legislation and public policy, but it also made a number of recommendations. And one of the main recommendations made to us by the Council of Europe was that Spain needed a specific law against sexual violence suffered by women and girls. What is happening here today, therefore, is that we are responding to this recommendation from the Council of Europe. The second issue I wanted to share here is that this law represents a complete paradigm shift. If there is no explicit consent on the part of women, what is happening is aggression. So clear, ladies and gentlemen. We thus narrowed the margin for the machist interpretations that are made about the behavior of women; it was over that we wore the very short skirt or whether we closed our legs or not. It's over. Ladies and gentlemen, this law responds to a serious problem of public insecurity. 44% of women have ever suffered in our lives at least one episode of sexual violence, and I do not say that, as studies say, reports from organisms as well recognized as they can, for example, the Andalusian School of Public Health, in a recent study. 44%, ladies and gentlemen. We know that the home is the safest place in the world for a woman, but we also know that when we're on the street we have a very high risk of sexual assault. Therefore, the problem is not where, the problem is not the time, the problem is not whether we go alone or not we go alone; the problem is that a sexist rapes us in our house and rapes us in the street. [[Applauds]] The third idea I want to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, is that this law makes our country a better country, because countries that have advanced human rights legislation are better countries, without a doubt. At a time as important for the rule of law as this, at a time as important for the security and life of women as this, the Party The People's Party again votes against; another equality law that the People's Party again votes against. And there is no reason; there may be discrepancies but there is no reason to vote against, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And as always, and at best, you'll be late. Just before he went to this rostrum, like his partner Sofia, he read the victim's statements of the 2016 group rape in San Fermin. I think we've all been excited to read what La Manada's victim said. She said, as my partner Sofia said, that this law is not her law, that this law is of absolutely all women. How true you are, mate! How true! I'm on my way. Women's rights are not an annex to a report. Women's rights are not a 21st century fashion. Women's rights are the civil rights of the majority of the world's population. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs Berja.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the vote by telematics procedure, I shall now state the result of the vote on the amendment adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom. Votes cast, 347; yes, 293; no, 1; abstentions, 53. Consequently, with the adoption of the amendment, this draft organic law has to be put to a final vote on the whole. In this regard, I would like to inform you that from now until 16:45 this item and the other items on the agenda will be able to be voted on telematically. It is therefore possible to vote for approximately one hour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u160	We continue with the debate on the Senate's amendment to the bill amending Act 14/2011 of 1 June 2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that politics is not experiencing its best moment and the short time I have been in this House I am realizing that there are times when we have great merit in this. [[The lady]] The reason I'm here is because I've been contacted by several associations of young researchers from the Canary Islands, of state researchers who, alerted by a rights conquest a few months ago, were eager to lose them before they could even be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting here on an amendment to a law that came out of this Congress a few months ago and a single amendment that seeks to repeal the tenth additional provision, one of the most celebrated milestones by the research community because it gave them, nothing more and nothing less, than the same labour rights as the rest of the Spanish workers. Nothing more and nothing less than that. However, I'm going to talk about what I know, Canarias. The Science Pact was voted unanimously by all political parties in the Parliament of the Canary Islands only half a year ago. And what did the pact have for science? Improvement of rights, improvement of investment... However, do the parties who vote in favour of the pact for science then vote against it in the Senate? Gentlemen of the PP, this is not logical, this does nothing to help people trust us and the work we do here. Ladies and gentlemen, fires, the volcano, the pandemic... Every time there's something serious, we wave the flag of research, technology and science. However, what do we do the rest of the time? What is our job to ensure that men and women working in the sector have the right conditions for us to be the best? What are we working on? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not normal for structural rights to be won and for the people who win them to see that they lose them two months later. It is not serious, it is not sensible and there is the paradoxical situation that in the same study or laboratory there can be two scientists with different labour rights, because one pays Europe and the other pays Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u162	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u163	This doesn't make any sense. Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that with these kinds of mechanisms people lose confidence. This should not be a war between universities and centres against workers' rights, because everything begins and ends in the same place, where it governs, and who rules has an obligation to put the means and resources in place so that universities, centres of excellence and administrations have sufficient funds to guarantee these workers' rights. Madam Minister, we are going to vote no to this PP amendment, obviously, but this is not a blank cheque. We need to ensure that these centres of excellence have the appropriate resources so that they do not have to choose between paying a worker's right or investing more in research. We have to guarantee the excellence of our research, and that is only done when we fight in every way. We cannot fight with one hand for workers' rights and with the other not to put the right money so that this is guaranteed, because in the end what we get is to divide the sector, which should be united doing what it best knows how to do, what it is to investigate, move forward and carry on a country like Spain, that if it really wants to be something and have a development it will not be able to do without its scientists, without research and without technology. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote no to this amendment, but we will be vigilant to ensure that financial and economic resources are provided so that all this can be guaranteed or that at least they can be allowed to use the remnants of treasury to guarantee these rights for which both you and we agree that we cannot back down. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us hope that all this will be fulfilled and that the ecosystem, instead of fighting, will be focused on the positive, that is to move forward and grow and make us proud and not shake the flag every time a pandemic comes or only when we need them and then forget about them. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two months ago a law passed without votes against and therefore a law with a high level of consensus came out of this Congress. It is true that it has had curious things, such as a particular vote announced and then withdrawn by the Socialist Group, also a surprising amendment in the Senate of the People's Group, surprising not so much by the People's Group, but by the change of opinion of the Republican Left on this matter. We, Citizens, have already said that this was an unambitious project and that more efforts were needed, especially from the Government, to reverse the low numbers in investment in research and innovation in Spain. We seem to be content with 1.25% of GDP when we should be reaching 3%. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u166	Silence, please, silence. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u167	Thank you, Madam President. That is why we thought, and we thought, that there is still room to improve a text that says comes to solve the great and eternal problems of our science system, both the administrative burden of researchers and the lack of stability and security in their scientific career. This law, even before, addressed the employment problem of researchers' contracts in Spain. In fact, we have already agreed with the December 2021 labour reform and we have done so by criticizing that we will not once again bet on a comprehensive and in-depth reform of our labour market and that the evil of insecurity in Spain will not be attacked. That is why we have maintained a positive position on the subsequent changes on this reform to assume that model of indefinite contract also for the science system. Few can say loud and clear that they are for an indefinite, sustainable and quality job for all Spaniards, and among them for those who have also experienced this lack of security in the field of scientific research. We Liberals can say so because we have always been committed to quality employment and have demonstrated it, moreover, when we voted in this Congress and, above all, how we are going to do today, maintaining our position in the defense of sustainable and beneficial employment relations between employers and employees for both sides. We did it with employers and workers in labor reform, we did it after that in a particular way with the science sector with the reforms that affect them and we are going to do it exactly the same right now with the amendment that comes from the Senate. To combat the precarious work of Spanish researchers, we must bet on the indefinite nature of their contracts. It is not to say that the fact that temporary contracts can still be maintained is the source of funding for projects requiring such research staff. There is nothing really to see that the source of funding is European funds or national funds so that there are two types of contracts to implement these projects. It cannot be a problem for projects of greater excellence that can be launched with certain calls for competitive European funds, with a higher labour cost for universities or research centres, to fall on the shoulders of researchers, because if we accept this option we will not only have solved nothing as regards the instability of our scientific researchers, but we will have even worsened the circumstances of those who are temporarily hired in the face of the indefinite ones only by the origin of those funds that finance the projects in which they are going to work. The reasons we have heard, all of them of an economic nature, are not realistic in terms of the calculations given to us, nor do they really seem to reflect the underlying problem, which is the lack of well-planned and sufficient funding for scientific research. This is necessary both in universities and in the rest of state and autonomous public research centres. Moreover, it is unimaginable that we do not demand from the public sector an attitude with its professionally hired research staff that is required from the private sector. We cannot fill our mouths to celebrate the successes of our researchers, but do not remove the eternal difficulties in the employment situation of those who must achieve those successes, precisely. In Citizens we believe in our researchers and therefore have always supported them in their demands for a safe and stable professional and work career, but we also support our research centers, private and public, university or not, institutes, parks, foundations, etc., which urgently require sufficient and permanent funding. That is why we cannot forget, and we have always said so, that science, and above all the public sector of scientific research, needs financial support in a sufficient and stable way, as I say, and that is why yesterday we registered an initiative for the administrations, with the ministry coordinated with the autonomous communities, to improve and extend the funding of the budgets of the research centres, precisely to cover these compensations for the purpose of indefinite contract. [[The Lord]] Our support for researchers implies formulas such as the indefinite contract with increasing compensation, which we have already made public, that would make this contract the default model in our work model or bet on other models, such as that of the Austrian backpack, so that the worker can always carry with him a number of rights when changing jobs. But like this which we have proposed for so many years, we demand stable and sufficient funding for those who are public employers, research centres, universities, to deal with these items in their personnel budgets. That is why we are surprised that groups such as the Popular, VOX, Together and Esquerra assume, in their case, the alternative of carrying on the shoulders of researchers, once again, the precariousness of work due to alleged lack of resources, rather than fighting for those resources to reach universities and research centres in a stable and sufficient way. Moreover, we are not really surprised by Juntas and Esquerra, who are moving a problem here to achieve a budgetary agreement in Catalonia and to properly fund their researchers in that community and the struggle for their political position in the Catalan cloisters and universities. We are surprised by this amendment by a group like the Popular, when its spokesman two months ago said right here that our research staff had to return the hard effort he had made over the past two years, referring to the pandemic, and that no one would understand that we did not understand politicians today to guarantee investment in R & D and to ensure a decent and stable career for all research staff. The words of the spokesman for the group that is presenting this amendment today are ours, I do them in front of its amendment, because we are going to continue to support the science sector, both research centres and researchers with job security, more budgetary resources and more job and professional stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u168	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego has the floor. Candy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. As we said in the previous debate of this law, in the BNG we start from the conviction that it should be an opportunity to move forward in promoting a science for society as a whole, but also a science with rights. That is why we have tabled numerous amendments, some of which have improved various aspects, but especially in order to guarantee rights and to put an end to the precariousness of research groups and of all research staff, including the technical and management staff. Regrettably, some, such as the one advocating retroactive compensation also for pre-doctoral contracts or those related to narrowing the gender gap, were not accepted, i.e. that further progress could and should be made. But what is surprising and unacceptable, in our view, is that an amendment, such as the 76 amendment - it seems that there are political forces that specialize in which we go back in rights - which precisely reduces rights and will lead to the precariousness of project personnel associated with the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Of course, it won't be with the support of the Galego Nationalist Block. We will therefore vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u171	Thank you very much, President. In Compromís we are very clear about what we have to vote on today's amendment 76 that was incorporated into the Senate, and our vote will be a no-brainer, in line with what the workers of science are asking of us. We've filled our mouths these years with how important science is to the future, and we've seen it especially in this pandemic. However, we maintained a precarious sector - the research sector was, in many cases, a precarious sector - which has long caused this intelligence that we have formed with public resources to end up going abroad and ultimately bearing fruit outside. Therefore, it is essential to maintain the principle that equal work, equal working conditions. And if this amendment is ratified, we will have workers in the same centre with different working conditions, stable and indefinite contracts and precarious and temporary contracts. The only difference will be where the funds come from to investigate and we find it profoundly unfair. We believe that, if it is finally approved, it would go against the consolidation of strong research groups and that it would continue to maintain a precarious work model that deprives many science workers of rights and opportunities. Therefore, our vote will be unequivocally no.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u172	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u173	Good morning. In connection with this bill, Junts per Catalunya has tabled various amendments in three blocks: competition, animal rights and financing. Amendment 76, which removes the tenth additional provision, was passed in the Senate and is an improvement to funding. For this reason, the Junts Members remain consistent with the position that Junts held in the Senate, where he supported this amendment, because we do not want to be velettes and because the improvement that the amendment entails eliminates discrimination between European funds. Catalonia accounts for 1.5% of the population of the European Union and receives 2.5% of the European competitive funds. This position us as the fifth country to obtain funds based exclusively on scientific relevance, which allow to carry out actions of research, technological development and that achieve excellence. One example is the EUR 1.5 billion that Catalonia has achieved under the Horizon 2020 programme. If this amendment does not progress, Catalonia will lose this possibility of research of excellence. Many research centres will have to close; their researchers, at best, will emigrate to countries where quality research is really needed, providing them with the resources and capacities they need to do so. These are funds that allow the financing of scientific and technical staff, as well as their training linked to the duration of programmes; an essential training that does not affect the reduction of job insecurity - in Junts per Catalunya we are against job insecurity - since this funding is linked to highly competitive projects, of limited duration and that promote mobility. This position is defended not only by us, but also by the Catalan universities, more than forty centres of excellence and the Conselleria d'Universitats. We are informed that the Government of Spain and the Republican Left have reached an agreement in extremis, demonstrating, from our point of view, that the Ministry does not have the will to negotiate with the Government and that it does have the will to negotiate with a political party. It is legitimate, of course, but we find it somewhat curious. As far as we know, the agreement has two points. Indirect costs are increased from 21 % to 25 % of State research projects for operating costs, which also implies compensation for indefinite contracts. Here we have doubts and doubts are: Will a project be used to pay for another project, in particular a state project to pay for a European Union project? Indirect costs increase, yes, but is the direct costs that fall or the total amount of the project maintained or increased? As we have seen since Junts, state funds for research are decreasing, which are going to be used to compensate for the costs of a European project. We do not see him, sincerely, coherent. We have also been informed that the agreement talks about a commitment to study a new funding system for research projects of excellence. It is nothing concrete to commit to study. This does not guarantee anything, because the end of the study may be that the funding system for current research projects is already correct and therefore the funding of centres of excellence is not improved. From our point of view, this is an agreement which does not solve the problem, but - as we say in my own language - which passes, any undertaking. That is why we believe that the Catalan parties represented in this House...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u174	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u175	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. ...if we really defend Catalonia's interests, we should prevent these resources from slipping out of our hands. And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we cannot change our vote based on solutions that do not go to the bottom of the problem and that do not have a real positive impact either on the Catalonian search system or on Catalonian Search Centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u176	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u177	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. We discussed the changes in the reform of the Science Act following its passage through the Senate, specifically with regard to the deletion of the tenth additional provision, on the proposal of an amendment by the People's Party. The People's Party put us in a false dichotomy with amendment 76 in the Senate: or the future of the research centres or labour rights of researchers working in them, as if they were two facts that could go separately, that is, that one reality excludes the other and that, therefore, we must decide in one direction or another. Esquerra Republicana completely rejects this dichotomy and we are clear that the two realities are complementary and we must take political decisions and legislate to make them fully compatible. Without ensuring the viability of the sector, labour rights can hardly be defended, because there is simply no sector. We have been saying for a long time that we need to continue working towards a more stable system of basic and structural funding of the science and research system. This will also make it possible to ensure an improvement in the labour rights of researchers, especially young people, who have serious problems stabilising their jobs and, as a result, to be able to consolidate careers of excellence, something which means that many must seek their lives abroad, which ends up causing the famous brain drain. Our obligation as legislators that we believe in capital and the social return that implies a consolidated R & D & I sector was to try to reach an agreement with the government during the process of law in the Senate that made this reality possible, which was not possible, we lacked time and certainly a little waist. But we are stubborn, we believe in dialogue, negotiation and the great agreements that help transform people's lives, especially those who suffer the most, which is the working and middle class of the country. That is why in the last few days and hours we have been negotiating with the ministry, and I want to announce that we have reached an agreement, which is based on two points, which I am now going to explain, because, although it does not seem so, I am the spokesman for the Republican Left, not Mrs Illamola, who has more or less explained the agreement, and for which the Republican Parliamentary Group is going to vote against the inclusion of the amendment from the Senate. Point one of the agreement, increase indirect costs from the current 21 % to 25 % in calls for research projects under the Ministry, in line with the level of indirect costs that allow competitive calls from the European Union framework research programme. This increase will enable the centres and universities to cope with the increase in operating costs, including the resulting provision for indeterminate recruitment allowances, which entails an additional 2,1 % annual labour expenditure. The four percentage points of indirect cost increases therefore bear the extra cost. Point number two, we have agreed with the Government to consider and develop a proposal to improve the basic funding system for research groups of excellence. We commit ourselves to agreeing on a new long-term model to strengthen and increase structural funding for the research system and also to stabilise research staff. We give ourselves time until the end of the new session, i.e. until the end of the year. It is clear that this model must also be broadly agreed with the sector, but it is good news that we are committed to doing so, the sector deserves it. With this agreement we achieved what we said was necessary and dismantled the dichotomy presented to us by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We must look for the formula to retain a capital that is nothing more and nothing less than our future as a society. The challenges we face are enormous and without a consolidated R & D & I system it will be impossible to face them. In Catalonia we have leading centres that are referenced all over the world. In this regard, it is therefore worth noting the wealth of hundreds of professionals who make great efforts, often unrecognized and precariously, to consolidate the science and innovation sector in Catalonia and make it a people of investment attraction and recognized excellence. Only by dialogue and negotiation are improvements achieved in all areas, there is no magic solution. I understand that Mrs Illamola and the Lords of Junts do not like this agreement; as I know, you are right-wing, and therefore always go against the interests of the working class, but nothing happens, nobody is perfect. Surely it was much more comfortable not to negotiate and come up here, complain about everything and tweet very angry. I understand that some do so because parliamentary arithmetic does not allow them to do anything else. We prefer to put the negotiating force of the Republican Left at the service of the people. [[Applauds]] Finally, I wanted to thank the Minister and her entire team for their willingness to reach an agreement, which has not been easy but which is certainly good for everyone. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m. and will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u178	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comuno, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u179	Thank you, President. On June 23, the majority of this House passed the 2011 Science Act reform to, among other issues, dignify the scientific career and improve the working conditions of our researchers. During that vote, the majority of the House also approved Amendment 59 of the United Nations Podemos, which allowed precisely the application of labour reform to all researchers of competitive European funds. Why was the incorporation, the adoption of that amendment so important? Because researchers working with European funds account for almost half of the workforce and because with this amendment we ensure that most of our country's research staff have indefinite contracts, more stability and greater redundancies. There was, however, the ratification of the new law in the Senate, and that is where the People's Party tabled an amendment, Amendment 76, to put an end to the United Nations measure We can and basically for investigators to continue with temporary contracts. The amendment, as is known, was supported in the Senate by the Spanish and Catalan right-wing parties. Really, that the People's Party, VOX or the old Convergence bet on a model based on precariousness that surprises at this point. They often fill their mouths with vaccines and science saving our lives, but they are systematically dedicated to mistreating our scientists and researchers. But what caught our attention on that occasion was that it also had the support of Esquerra Republicana, a formation that has so far been characterized by defending the rights of the working class. At this point everyone recognizes that the labor reform of the coalition government is consolidating a change in our country's recruitment model, undoubtedly favoring the increase in indefinite recruitment, and from the United Nations We could see as a very necessary thing that this trend will also reach the staff of our system of science, technology and innovation. We understood, in fact, that science cannot be an island of precariousness, insecurity or inescapability, something that would contradict the stated objective of the very amendment of the Law on Science. However, one might wonder what arguments have been put forward by these parliamentary groups to oppose a clear improvement in the work of our research staff. As always, the right-wings go to catastrophic discourses to oppose what it is to consolidate labour rights. We have already seen it with the rise of the SMI or with the elimination of contracts by construction and service, and on this occasion the People's Party has claimed alleged discrimination between contractors from competitive and non-competitive European funds and, of course, it also points to the alleged high economic cost that indefinite contracts would entail for research centres. Well, the argument of alleged discrimination between investigators is not only unsustainable, but manifestly misleading, because just United Nations Amendment 59 We can be worded to put an end to the discrimination that investigators hired with state funds have an indefinite contract, while investigators hired with competitive European funds have a temporary contract, so it is just the reverse. If amendment 76 of the People's Party is ratified, it is when we would have done the same work in a laboratory to equal researchers but with a contract that would change depending on whether the source of funding is state or European. On the other hand, we are told that indefinite recruitment for researchers hired with European funds would create an insurmountable economic cost and would put scientific bodies at risk. Again, we are faced with a cynical and fallacious argument. Let's go with some data. The costs associated with indefinite recruitment are to increase the compensation for the end of the contract from 12 to 20 days per year worked. This means an increase of 2,1 % in salary costs which will not be paid if the contract is maintained or if the investigator decides to leave the centre. At the same time, the centre would save that 2.1 which we have pointed out at 1.2% in corporate contributions, savings that occur in all indefinite contracts. We are therefore talking about only 0.8 % of the cost of the contract being increased. Therefore, to say that this very small cost is going to be a financial apocalypse for the research system, what do you want me to say to you?, seems to me to be even too cynical for the People's Party. And so we couldn't understand how Esquerra Republicana, who voted against labor reform because it supposedly didn't increase redundancies, was now with the Catalan right and defended the opposite for the investigative staff. Therefore, I am glad that the comrades of the Republican Left have rectified, because it is not consistent that you often go up to this rostrum giving lessons on what it means to be left-wing, which is also, and now you are going to vote with the People's Party and VOX to precarious the conditions of the research staff. The problem is not compensation or costs, although that is always the excuse sought by right-wing parties and employers to maintain a precarious work model, based on the chaining of false contracts for work and service. Thus, under the pretext that research staff have enough with their vocation and scientific discoveries, it is intended to use a staff almost to use and pull, not subject to the same regulations as the rest of the workers. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are faced with two ways of dealing with the future of our science system: on the one hand, that of a certain employer who thinks he can only be competitive at the expense of sacrificing labour rights, a employer who feels threatened when the staffs gain rights, opportunities and autonomy, and, on the other hand, we have the vast majority of researchers in our country, who demand a stable scientific career, with rights and who end up once and for all with precariousness. From the United We can, from this parliamentary group, we are very clear on which side we have been and are going to be, and that is why we are going to reject Amendment No 76 from the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u180	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Utrilla Cano has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u181	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we attend the last session of debate on the law of science, which this government cooked in the style of I like it and I like it, that is, without anyone. And when the cake came out warm from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it had more holes than a strainer. [[Applauds]] To cover those holes, as far as one of them is concerned, Podemos tabled an amendment, which was subsequently rejected in the Senate, removing the tenth additional provision that had been incorporated into Congress and that we are again debating here today; a rocking pimping game between the Legislative Chambers and a clebrón that is incomprehensible to the citizenry and that would have avoided having done things right from the beginning. Therefore, it is important to recapitulate and explain to the Spaniards what the real reality is. The first thing, and to put it in context, is to say loud and clear that science in Spain is made of foxes. Despite the enormous talent that our researchers treasure, they are ill-treated, with poor wages. VOX denounced from this rostrum the milleurist payrolls of professionals with more than twenty years of experience. It must be said that they work suffocated by a thick bureaucracy and that we have a massive exodus of young talent abroad. And worst of all and the key: we have under-financing of 1.4% of our GDP, far, far away, ladies and gentlemen, from 2.3, which is the European average, and in light years from the countries leading Europe, such as Switzerland or Sweden, above 3%. This is the sad reality, ladies and gentlemen, and it is neither the fruit of Putin nor the virus nor even of Franco, believe me. [[Applauds]] The leaders of this demeaning capital are the alternation governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. You have managed the science of Spain in the last forty years and are the creators of this dramatic situation. But let us focus on what has been the trajectory of this law. Although the scientific world unanimously called for a pact for the science of all political forces, this government from the minute one applies an anti-democratic cord to VOX and excluded us from knowing the initial text and, of course, inviting us to sign it. It is fair to say that only one citizen's deputy, Marta Martín, had the courage to raise her voice and denounce this injustice. He is no longer here today, by his own decision, but I would like to thank him with all my heart from this rostrum. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, with these additions you do not silence the deputies of VOX, what you do is gag the four million voters of the third political force of Spain; there can be no more petty or undemocratic act. The Spaniards must be told that this government understands science as a tool for its propaganda. It fills their mouths with the importance of science, and then ends up, as always, leaving it in the gutter. They already did so with scientists during the pandemic, when they declared them nonessential, combining them in their homes, without allowing them to work. In Spain during that period one could reform his kitchen because the professionals who worked there had been considered essential, but you, illegally and unconstitutionally, left the scientists locked up in their homes. The Spanish have to know that in this Congress a subcommission was created with twenty-six first-level experts to listen to their proposals and incorporate them into the law of science, some of them international eminences, and that this Government did not wait for their appearances to end; the Government approved in the Council of Ministers the text of the law without all of them intervening here. Once again they trampled on science. What disrespect and defach, gentlemen! [[Applauds]] But today they again despise science with the decree in which they state that workplaces should not exceed the 27th, and exclude, for example, hairdressers, which seems phenomenal to us, ladies and gentlemen, but forget about scientific laboratories. Do you think it's healthy, really, that our scientists work 27o with robes, propylene gloves, lab glasses and handling substances like ether or acetone, which at these temperatures generate flammable gases? They don't have to answer us, because we know it's absolutely the same. The Spanish must also be told that, during the period of its proceedings, this government promoted labour reform, which jeopardized the future of more than 25 000 researchers. Not only did they show a total lack of coordination between the portfolios, but they also showed an enormous pre-potence, disheartening the directors of the Spanish universities, who alerted them at the beginning of the year. It must be explained that this Government, which says that it never leaves anyone behind, forgot in its law about technical professionals, management professionals, even health researchers, and that only with amendments from the rest of the party groups was it possible to correct this unacceptable forgetfulness. It must be said that its law does not guarantee investment, despite the fact that its media machinery sold the shielding of the financing of science in a bowl and bowl. You conditioned it to budget availability for each year, a package armor that had to be amended once again to ensure investment in science. This law includes improvements, but it is not the definitive solution to the labor instability of the scientific world. Behind this lies an endemic problem of lack of funding, a structural failure that you could have addressed if you had broad-sightedness and courage. Do you want to explain to us how they will finance science when they do not have European funds? Gentlemen of the Government, this has been a chronicle of the missed opportunity. You had in your hands, touching it with your fingers, the possibility of putting aside sectarianism and partisan interests and having truly bet on science. But to ask this government not to be sectarian, even if it embraces common sense, is like asking the elm or grapes to the thorn, a veritable mischief. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Navarro López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, it is always important to tell the truth, even if some are upset, among other things because the truth should not bother anyone, and what we have been hearing from your mouth for the past two months is anything but truths, and today we have heard some of it. Surprised to say that the representative of Podemos is almost the one who has most adjusted to the truth, because the reality is that if we are here today it is because you missed your word, since you agreed with Podemos at the last minute an amendment and, in the end, surprises of life, because you have agreed without transparency in an office with Esquerra Republicana. That's a surprise! Once again Republican Left of Catalonia saves the government. That is the reality and this is the summary of the law of science, because the law that you brought here is exactly the same as would remain at this point with the amendment of the People's Party. First falsehood they've repeated. The amendment of the People's Party in the Senate - and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Senate, especially Senator Sanz Vitorio, who is with us today, for the work done - the amendment of the People's Group left the text as you wrote it. It has been said for two months - and the spokesman for Podemos, of course, agrees - that the law is worse thanks to the People's Party, and the amendment voted on today leaves the text as you wrote it. So what is wrong with the People's Party amendment, if we leave it exactly as you brought it to Congress? Because neither in the negotiations with the People's Group nor in the negotiations on the amendments nor in the subsequent negotiations or in the text, in no conversation did you say that you were going to apply labour counter-reform to projects with temporary funding, under no circumstances did you say so. So, Minister, who has changed their position? Who missed the word? Who's changed her mind? It was good of you recently to say that the president of my party was lying. You insulted him, you called him a liar. Who's lying, Minister? Who's lying? The reality is that who lies here is the Socialist Party, that's the only reality, that's the only reality. [[Applauds]] And now the Socialist Party will come out to say that the PSOE breaks its chest for workers' rights and that the perfidious right goes against those rights, but the reality is that its text said what the People's Party wants it to say today. So who's the bad guy here, Minister? It is absolutely not true what they have said over these two months. They say this is exclusively the responsibility of the People's Party. The ideology behind the amendment is that of the seventy-six Spanish universities, fifty public universities. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes negative gestures]] Don't say no; fifty public universities, including the Complutense, Carlos III, the University of Córdoba, the University of Zaragoza, the Polytechnic of Valencia. All of these have told us that we are presenting this amendment. [[Applauds]] The seventy-six Spanish universities have asked all the political parties to avoid the disaster that engulfed science by the amendment you put in at the last moment. You have to tell the truth, it is very important to tell the truth. Here we brought a text agreed with the ministry and the Socialist Group, and at the last minute you, without telling each other anything, reached an agreement with Podemos and accepted an amendment from Podemos. You'll know why. That's why we didn't amend it. We had tabled an amendment that equated the rights of all researchers, regardless of where funding for the European project came from, and you voted against it. In the end, they accepted Podemos' amendment, without telling us anything. That is why the seventy-six Spanish universities and the fifty-seven most important research centers in the country asked all groups to amend it in the Senate. And the People's Group did it, my colleagues in the Senate did it, and that's why it had the support of many parties. It has not been the People's Party, it has been the seventy-six Spanish universities that have asked us to do so, it has been the fifty-seven leading research centers in the country that have asked us to do so, and that is why parties as uneven as the Republican Left, the PNV or the People's Party have agreed in the Senate. The majority of the Senate rectified the law, not the People's Party, and today - which is why the writing is absolutely useless - after having reached an agreement in the 90th minute with Podemos in an office, without transparency, they come to an agreement with Squerra Republicana de Catalunya, outside the parliamentary process. Where's that deal? What role does it play? Who said so? Will it affect only the research centres and universities of Catalonia or those all over the country? Is it going to affect the universities? Answer it. He carries all my intervention saying no; now say yes. [[Minister of Science and Innovation, Morant Ripoll, makes affirmative gestures]] Will universities be able to accept this agreement? Where do you put it? It will agree with me that for the majority of citizens this of seeing an agreement between the Republican Left of Catalonia and the Socialist Party in a role, without transparency, already sounds to us and usually ends up regular; there is either a table in the middle or there is no table in the middle, usually ends up regular. [[Applauds]] That is the reality, Minister: that you have decided to reach an agreement with Squerra Republicana de Catalunya without light or tachographs. That is the only reality, when it could have come to an agreement perfectly with the parliamentary majority. And the reality is that they don't tell researchers the truth, because so far they were hired indefinitely while funding their project for two, three or four years. They are now hired indefinitely, not temporarily as before, for the same period. What happens if the project's funding is over? The representatives of Podemos and Esquerra have said so. What depends on our country's research? External financing. By the way, does the agreement you have reached with Esquerra affect international calls? Again he doesn't say anything, and you know they're the majority. What will happen to the research projects - by putting a university at random - of the Polytechnic University of Valencia, which are already being processed with European funding? Are you going to be able to accept this measure? No, and you know it, but obviously, shut up. The reality, Minister, is that your agreement will only serve one thing, and the Spaniards deserve to be told the truth: to pay the researchers' layoffs. That increase in the cost they have said will serve - to the spokesman of Podemos has slipped - to pay the dismissals of the researchers, that is the reality. They're going to have an indefinite contract. And the People's Party doesn't say it, the directors and research centers of Spain have told them, that all they're going to do is increase a bubble of undefined fake contractors. I do not say that, says the rector of the Polytechnic of Valencia, who I suppose will deserve more respect than the one he deserves from the People's Party. They have lied to the researchers, they continue to lie to them, they have missed the word given, and with this result, of course, Minister, you remain in the hands of Esquerra. You'll know. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u184	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u185	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister. Before we begin, Mr Navarro, I am not surprised that you are diverting some attention, because I understand that today you have a piece of paper that I do not know how you are managing it, the truth, because this amendment was approved in Congress because it improved the text. You guys made it worse in the Senate. [[Applauds]] But I warn you one thing: today Congress is going to fall again. Ladies and gentlemen, there are over 5000 scientists in our country, according to the Euraxess portal, who were hired with European funds in 2019 and 2020. There are more than 5000 who the PP wants to take away the job stability that we approved just a few months ago with the law. There are more than 5000 people you want to leave without the same labour rights as the rest of our country's workers. In addition, 87% of these contracts were temporary in Spain, while in Germany, for example, it was 45%, and in the United Kingdom, 52%. We had almost twice as much temporality and you don't want to do anything, you want to leave the subject as we are. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are not talking about the law of science, and we are not talking about it because it was already passed in this Congress without any vote against, not even that of VOX. If the law was so bad, why didn't you vote against it? The whole House adopted it because, like most scientists and scientists, they claimed it was a good law. But now the PP and the rest of the right-wings want to make it worse, as we have seen, they want to take away the dignity and scientific career of much of the scientific staff in this country. You established the culture of precariousness already with the labor reform of 2012 and tried to make us believe that there was no alternative model, but this government has shown you that this is not the case. In the background, Mr Navarro, what is your proposal? That in the same group we have investigators hired with indefinite contracts and others who are not? What's your proposal? The elimination of this additional provision creates inequalities between contracts depending on the origin of the funds, and you know that. If the funds are national or private, contract indefinite; if the funds are European, temporary contract and less rights. This does generate labour conflict and not indefinite contracts, although we already know that their recruitment model is precarious, with which the issue does not change either. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we would like to know who you are working for, because it is clear that not for scientists. I remind you, because you have made a list of centers, that the vast majority of scientists in this country rejected this amendment: Workers' Commissions, UGT, Red Sea for Research, CSIF, Precarious, National Association of Hospital Researchers, all of them are against it. Who do you represent? We'd like you to explain. You have used fear and uncertainty to perpetuate precariousness. They generate fear, distort, create confusion to maintain temporality. We cannot allow this fear to relegate science to an island of precariousness when it no longer exists in the rest of the sectors. This government is going to break the precarious culture of the People's Party. Research centres are demanding funding, and in that we fully agree: more budget for science, more for staff and more for centres. So why the right, why PP, why VOX, obviously also Junts, don't focus on this problem? Why don't they openly say they don't want to increase the budget in science? Why are they trying to manipulate? We've got it all figured out. All you know is to increase university fees to cut the budget in science, along with the dignity and personal stability of the workers. The Government of Pedro Sánchez and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have a commitment to personal stability and increased funding, and we have shown it, we have shown it in the last two budgets, where we have made historical increases in investment that, by the way, the whole right voted against them. In addition, the science law itself introduces the investment commitment of 1.25 % of GDP. Are the PP's autonomous governments also committed to increasing the budget in science, as concerned as they are, by ensuring the stability of centres and scientific staff? Is the Government of the Generalitat committed? Because I suppose they will increase the budget, Mrs Illamola, because they are the second autonomous community with a lower budget in science and universities, casually behind Madrid. There is no dichotomy between providing dignity and job stability and maintaining the economic balance of research centres. Those who use this argument are deceiving, and this has been made clear by the majority of parliamentary groups, whom we wanted to thank for their work, because they have made policy and dialogue, and we have achieved a better law, a talent attraction plan, stable and growing funding for the centres and also for scientific staff. On the other hand, the right-wings return with their catastrophic discourse: that if the amendment of the law involves dismissals, that if the amendment of the law involves closing lines of investigation. Mrs Illamola, if what you said was not so serious and false, it would be to laugh, at least they innovate in fake news, because they have already used this resource several times. They used it with the SMI, they used it with the labor reform, they used it with the royal decree of stabilization of scientific personnel. But I have bad news for you, for PP, for VOX, for Juntas, and good for citizenship, your apocalyptic predictions have not been fulfilled. Last July we had the lowest number of unemployed people recorded in one month of July since 2008; indefinite contracts, 41.4% of the total; unemployment of under 25s, the lowest in the historical series. And not only do we create jobs, but the sectors that grow the most are scientific-technical activities, and this is thanks to the unprecedented investment of the government of Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] What was the real catastrophe? What destroyed scientific projects and careers? The loss of 12,000 scientists in Spain from 2010 to 2017, 9% of their researchers, and this was thanks to the People's Party government. Therefore, we increase the budget in science, you try to cut; we approve new rights, you try to cut them; we dignify the scientific career, you try to cut it. They are omnipresent in cuts, they don't care where they are, whatever they do, whether they rule or not, because they have even tried to cut while in opposition. There's no one who understands them.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u186	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u187	I'm done. Therefore, continue to limit or attempt to limit rights, which we will continue to bet on why science and scientific advancement continue, working to dignify the lives of scientific personnel. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u188	Thank you very much. - DRAFT REFORM LAW OF THE REFUND TEXT OF THE COMPETITION LAW, APPROVED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 1/2020 OF 5 MAY, FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVE 2019/1023 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 20 JUNE 2019, ON PREVENTIVE RESTRUCTURING FRAMEWORKS, EXEMPTION OF DUTY AND INBILITY, AND ON MEASURES TO INCREASE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RESTRUCTURING, INSOLVENCY AND EXEMPTION OF DUTY PROCEDURES, AND AMENDMENT OF DIRECTIVE 2017/1132 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL, ON DETERMINED ASPECTS OF THE RIGHT OF SOCIEDS [[DIRECTIVE ON RESTRUCTURING AND INSOLVENCY]] [[File number 121/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u189	Finally, the debate on the amendments approved by the Senate to the Draft Law on the Reform of the Consolidated Text of the Competition Law, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020 of 5 May, for the transposition of Directive 2019/1023 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt relief and disqualifications, and on measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and debt relief procedures, and amending Directive 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of company law, the Restructuring and Insolvency Directive. Mr Bal Francés has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u190	Thank you very much, President. Let's go back to the rostrum to talk about the Competition Law with the Minister of Justice here. Thank you for coming, because there are other ministers who do not even come to hear what we have to say about the laws and the amendments we put forward by the parliamentary groups. The most important of the amendments that are under consideration here today, of the amendments that are going to be voted on here today, is not the group that proposes them, which is Junts per Catalunya, but above all that they are amendments that are very disturbing to the Spanish Government. The Government does not want them to go ahead, they have gone into the Senate, and above all the socialist side of the Government is very uncomfortable with these amendments, which I hope and ask the rest of the parliamentary groups to vote in favour of moving forward. Firstly, they are technical amendments but, above all, they are liberal amendments on which groups which are not liberal will also vote in favour. And why are they liberal amendments? Because one of them seeks to establish that there is greater equality between creditors in the execution of their claims within the universal competitive process and seeks to smooth out the privileges of public credit, the State Agency of the Tax Administration and the General Treasury of Social Security. That is to say, they are amendments that pursue a very laudable purpose, a goal of justice, of equality in the execution of claims between creditors. But what is happening, and we have seen it throughout this plenary, is that the government has recently - I say to you, Minister - committed various legislative frauds against the legislative competence of this House. It has been shown throughout the day how the royal decree is abused by mixing good things with bad things, and depriving us of the ordinary legislative procedure. One might add, for example, the use of the legislative proposals of the parliamentary groups instead of the draft laws to avoid memoirs of economic impact, to avoid the legislative procedure also with the advisory reports of the expert bodies. Finally, we find this third technique of extending the time limit for transposing directives so that we are already fair, fair, just about to overcome the time limit and in this way, atrociously, in an angry way, have to deal with the law. [[The lady]] And this is the last reason that bothers the government. Of course, because these amendments to the Senate have slowed down, they have postponed the publication in the State Official Gazette of a directive whose deadline is already expired. Well, I said in the speech we had in his day that the Government introduced a bill that managed to anger everyone, all the protagonists of the competition procedure and that, thanks to the conjuration of all the parliamentary groups against the Socialist Parliamentary Group in relation to the reform of this text, and to some extent even from the United Nations We can, we managed to move forward a better text. These amendments further improve the text; they are amendments which are very much to the liking of the Liberal party in this House because they try, on the one hand, to enhance the status of the professionals involved in the competition procedure, but above all because it is a revolution. It will not give headlines, no one will care, to the media will not interest them, but it gets something that had never been achieved in Spain, and it is the suspension of the execution of administrative procedures that the Tax Agency or the Treasury of Social Security goes on regarding public credits in the simplified procedure of micro-enterprises. For what? It is unintelligible what I have just said, but this practically serves to achieve a better execution, a better justice between the different credits that are in the competition and, above all, facilitates the negotiation to give viability to the companies, which is one of the purposes of the competition. Among all these amendments, as I say, is the most important one, which allows the administrative execution of public credit to be suspended. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this amendment, although it is not from my group. But there is another amendment, which we are also going to vote in favour, in which the position of Podemos and the Socialist Party is very shocking. It is an amendment that introduces the figure of the competitive mediator. The minister listened to me here to defend her from VOX attacks when we dealt with the Procedural Efficiency Act and VOX opposed alternative means of dispute resolution. I said: Minister, be you braver, also use mediation in the field of competition. It has had to be an amendment by Junts per Catalunya that will introduce it - I hope - in the final text of the Competition Law. It is absolutely consistent that VOX is voting against this amendment succeeding. Of course, if they do not want alternative dispute resolution mediation systems, they are consistent with their vote, even though we disagree on the criterion. What I cannot understand is that the Socialist Party is going to vote against this amendment. But aren't you the defenders of mediation, defenders of the out-of-court settlement of conflicts? Is it not the contest, precisely, where a lot of creditors must be agreed with an insolvent debtor, the most proclivious scenario for this mediation, as would be, for example, a will trial? I do not really understand why you are not ambitious, are not courageous and accept this mediation in the field of the competition procedure. We voted abstaining on the law, and one of the reasons for voting abstaining was precisely the privilege granted to public credit. Another reason was that you somehow criminalize those private professionals, restructuring experts, competition administrators, who are bad guys who make money in the competition procedures. Sure, but they make the competition procedures meet their purpose. They are not evil, and precisely what they do is help the lawyer of the Administration of Justice to ensure that the competition process achieves its purpose: the viability of the company or, if the company is not viable, the distribution of the money between the creditors, creating wealth, creating progress for the benefit of the general interest. These amendments dignify the status of these private professionals, and that is why we will vote in favour of these amendments and ask them to vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u192	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief in the speech, since in the debate on the reform of the Competition Law, as you know, PeCAT had a role - I would like to say and I think that is so - relevant, at least quantitatively very relevant, with more than one hundred amendments, of which at the end seven were accepted directly and thirty-three were negotiated throughout parliamentary work. Some parliamentary work in this Congress of Deputies, with appearances, with papers, with transactions, in the Commission and in plenary, because this was a subject that was addressed to the plenary as you will recall. In short, there was a whole series of progress that we believe to be very necessary and which, of course, were not all about the content of our amendments, but they did represent a very substantial step forward in what initially came into the draft law as a simple transposition of the European directive and which became, with the consensus of many groups, an opportunity to give more content and much more depth to the reform that was finally made. Today we have the point concerning the return of the Senate of this bill. I believe that it is also fair to highlight the time and work that has taken place here in Congress and how four amendments now appear to see whether or not they should be included in the text that was closed in Congress. In this text, even in the reasoned statement that comes from the Senate, there are some contradictions that the adoption of these amendments can imply in the whole text. It is for this reason that, without exhausting much more time, we did want to emphasize those achievements achieved, such as the intervention of professionals, lawyers and prosecutors, in the processing of competitions; access to a special procedure for SMEs, how it came out of Congress; the reduction in public credit for both Finance and Social Security and that this exemption from public credit could rise, according to the transactions to which we arrived, from 1000 euros only for Finance and 1000 euros only for Social Security to 10,000 euros for Finance and 10,000 euros for Social Security. The overall view therefore makes us vote today against the incorporation of these amendments, assessing the whole text, the contradictions involved in incorporating these amendments into the bill and, ultimately, the contradiction of the debate and in-depth work that took place here in the Congress of Deputies for a long time, with appearances and participation also of the most relevant actors in this issue and the four amendments that are now coming from the Senate. That is why we will vote against the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u194	Dear President, dear colleagues, we are again dealing with the reform of the Competition Law and we are again dealing with a series of amendments that send us from the Senate, amendments that have a small content, that do not do much harm, that are not very negative. Some of it does pose some difficulties because it delays the procedures, namely Amendment 31 and Amendment 60, concerning the abolition of the transitional provision, it is not problematic if the regulation is drawn up before 31 December. It is not particularly problematic, but it is very relevant and very indicative of what is happening in this country. Unfortunately, it's very indicative. As Edmundo Bal said right now, it's weird that you're coming to an agreement here so easily liberal and anti-liberal. And I would say, how strange that they get so easily into Catalan nationalist and radical Spanish nationalist agreements that they insult, attack and deny each other. Strange, what's going on here? Non-small excuse, manifest accusation. Some of the spokesmen of the People's Party used to say what it is lawful for them to reach agreements with Junt per Catalunya. Of course, I've spent my whole life, forty years, seeing agreements reached with the Puigdemont party and the Feijóo party. Continue, negotiate, of course, get out of your battles and wars, acknowledge your legitimacy and reach agreements. But please come to agreements in the committees of this House; come to agreements in the plenary of this House; come to agreements with light and stenographers, do not be squattered in the Senate waiting for that strategy that you have found to present a small technical amendment and that this Junts per Catalunya, which is very good for you so that the People's Party can support it, and thus manage to delay a month or two the entry into force of necessary laws, which are also laws that involve the transposition of Community directives, and thus harm the external image of the Kingdom of Spain as a good fulfillment of Community obligations. That strategy - they said - is lawful. What is lawful or what is not lawful depends on where everyone puts the list of respect we have for institutions and citizenship. It will be lawful, perhaps, if we put it in the minimum of the list, if we put it in that of not making express illegalities. It will be lawful from your perspective what you do and how you use the General Council of the Judiciary, it will be lawful what you have found to use the Senate to paralyse the laws, to delay their fulfillment and the fulfilment of Spain's community obligations or commitments. It will be lawful from your perspective, but, of course, elegant, very little. [[Applauds]] I sincerely advise you with all the affection that you speak whatever you want, that you reach all the agreements you want with Junts per Catalunya. That the party of Feijóo and the party of Puigdemont come to some kind of agreement seems perfect to me, that demilitarize their relations and that they relate in another way, that we are in a civilized country and we are in the 21st century. I think it's perfectly correct. Now, this kind of perverse use of institutions, no matter how much they hide, and no matter how much they say, oh, surprise! Liberals and anti-liberals we agree, ultranationalists of one sense and another we agree, strange sounds, and people are not foolish. People realize what's behind it and what the strategy is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we said in the previous debate, this rule is a failure of the legislator and not even the triumph of the partyocracy. It is the flagrant abuse of a Government, and specifically of the Ministry of Finance, which orders the parties that support it to serve their interests to plunder if it is more up to the middle, self-governing and entrepreneurial classes in a wasteful State that prevents any new opportunity for those who, acting properly and in good faith, have failed in their professional or entrepreneurial endeavour, especially the self-governing. [[Applauds]] We also said that all this has prevented a paused, conscientious and responsible analysis and debate of key competition legislation on competitiveness in our economy. The processing of this rule, with 607 amendments in Congress and 252 in the Senate, has been carried out at a record time, whose work in the Paper was limited to one day and a few weeks later is already debated by the Senate with four amendments that we are dealing with today. With regard to the amendments - which have already been voted on before speaking, Mr Bal, with which the conviction is relative - one of them is contradictory according to the very reasoned message accompanying the opinion, the one referred to in Article 37c of the Law in relation to the competitions, and more specifically the appointment of the competition manager, who becomes a competitive mediator, which is not the meaning of the law, but which in the opinion itself invokes the possible contradiction; another remains half-hearted, but has its meaning to slightly limit the harmful and abusive privileges of public credit in Article 690 of the Law; a third only formal one affecting Article 704 of the Consolidated Text, and the fourth logical third transitional, in drawing up the regulation in the competitions administration. Having said that, we are faced with one of the rules that has undergone the most changes throughout history, and with the text that will come out of this House today it will continue to change, because it is engaged in its early interpretation under article 1.6 of the Civil Code, taking into account the complementary nature of the case law and which we fear will soon be. It is a rule that was amended by Royal Decree 1/2020 of 5 May, which approved the consolidated text, a consolidated text that was not such and denied the exemption from public credit, and since it was a legislative decree there was a legal gap due to the over-limitation in its harmonization, which forced the application of the ultra vires principle, a legal principle that considers null and void acts that exceed the limit of the law, and that legislative decree did so. As a rule in this Government, I ignored as such a rule the doctrine of the Supreme Court, and in particular the treatment of the exemption from public credit in the procedure of the second opportunity, on which I will focus. I'll try to explain it as for laymen in the matter, but I'm sure they'll understand me. When a company goes badly a trading company goes to the competition procedure; it is dealt with, agreements or agreements are attempted and if this is not possible, it is settled, and with the liquidation the company dies, it is terminated and settled in the Commercial Register, and if no liability has been derived to the administrators, since their action has been diligent, the burial of the legal person with all the debts, including the public credit, is formalized by the closure of the corresponding sheet, sheet, volume and book in the commercial register and ceases to exist without more than the legal person. Well, to individual entrepreneurs, self-employed and natural persons who under the same conditions are subject to commercial and competitive legislation, the liquidation obviously does not end the actual death of the natural person - good, but at the same time we will see -; in fact, it is civil death, with outstanding debts that persist, and they are forced to act outside the system through testaferros and in the submerged economy. The only possibility is to give such persons a second chance, and thus exemption by agreement or by liquidation if the requirements of any credit, including public credit, are met. Not here, not in Spain, Minister, in clear contradiction to what is suggested and proposed by Directive 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Let the Spaniards know, all those who can affect what we are discussing today, that with the new text that is adopted, less public credit can be exonerated than with the rule that currently governs the treatment of the known second chance procedure. Courts and hearings, specifically I would like to highlight that of Barcelona, following the consolidated text, and applying the ultra vires principle, continued to exempt under the Supreme Court's criterion 50% of public credit and the other 50 went to a payment plan which, if it did not come to pass, but it was shown that the debtor had used the humanely possible resources, it ended up exonerating. If someone had a debt, for example, EUR 80 000, 40,000 will be exonerated directly and the rest, by agreement with the said exception. For now it is only possible to exempt a maximum of EUR 10,000, so it will continue to owe EUR 70,000 that cannot be paid, as the debtor will immediately switch to the submerged economy or act by way of testaferros. This is what there is, nothing more or less, is legal practice, and those of us who have dedicated ourselves to this we know. Moreover, by mor of the first transitory, in those procedures already initiated and informed to our customers, the clients in general of all the legal advisers of that practice, from now on the rules of play are changed, they will not be able to exonerate and they are also being prevented from starting again on that second opportunity, and this is an attack, minister, on the principle of irretroactivity of the laws. In short, we understand that this Government is only thinking of collecting - if not, it would not be so afraid of exonerating public credit - and of plundering, not protecting and supporting entrepreneurs and self-employed people on a second chance, those who did all right, who tried everything and went wrong. It's been a missed opportunity. This law, unfortunately, is not written on lasting stone. It is an ephemeral creation that does not reach even the eternal fleetingness of a star in summer. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizcorbe. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u198	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Uriarte, you have been very but very unfortunate, and you are a professor of constitutional law. He has disrespected the Senate, which is a House of Representatives of all Spaniards. And, moreover, it has failed in the truth by accusing the People's Party of delaying the adoption of this law. Do you remember when the deadline for tabling amendments to the standard was completed? March 16th. Do you know how long it took the Government and the Bureau of the Commission, to which you are a party, to convene the presentation? Three months; three months, Mr. Uriarte. You have more respect than you are a professor of constitutional law and a good parliamentarian. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Bal has explained today, the Competition Law returns to Congress and does so with amendments that point in line with what our party, the People's Parliamentary Group, supported during the procedure of the rule and, therefore, the people continue to think the same as we thought just a few weeks ago when this law was passed and that we have repeatedly reiterated, and that the adoption of this law is a missed opportunity, which will not serve as it should to help companies in difficulty and which will neither save nor help safeguard the employment that they generate. The facts, unfortunately, are giving us reason, and not only because the end of the moratorium has meant a marked increase in the competitive processes that reach the courts, but because, as the Mercantile judges claim, this increase in workload has not occurred in parallel with the adoption of a shock plan that included the material and human means necessary to deal with this workload in crescendo, as my group argued. The Government, in its disillusionment, forgot that on 25 July the Mercantile courts assume the powers to decide the competitions of natural persons and, although we warn them, to refer disputes arising from the transport of passengers to the Courts of First Instance is not sufficient to compensate for the increase in the work of the Mercantile courts. The Mercantile courts specify what the Government denies them, more tried, more resources, more money, more material means and more human resources, and that is what the Government denies them, it is that simple. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the balance that professionals and commercial judges make about the new Competition Law is not good, and it is not good because the law overprotects public credit; it is not good because the limits on the exemption from public credit make it difficult to access the second chance, which will make many people go back against the slogans that you constantly proclaim, and they will be engaged in living personal dramas or, if not, the submerged economy. It is not good because this blind view of public credit contained in the Competition Law is contrary to the provisions which require the transposition of the European Directive, and this will result in the presentation of a multitude of prejudicial issues that will disturb, hinder and question the effectiveness of the application of the rule. Professionals are critical because they are aware of what it means not to lighten the workload of the Mercantile courts and also because there is no effective early warning system; because the regime of entry into force and the transitional regime are confusing, and because all this is aggravated by the economic crisis that we suffer. That is why most experts agree that the law will need early reform and that, therefore, we are faced with a clear legislative failure which can only be attributed to Mr Sánchez, who never wanted to listen to the agents involved who, moreover, coincided, in strange coincidence, announcing the disaster of the initial government proposal and also what is now happening. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group has already warned about all these issues during the drafting process of the rule that government partners prevented the Executive from negotiating with the People's Party. As an example, I will tell you that we are still waiting for the text of five compromise amendments so that we can negotiate them with the Socialist Party and yet here we are. Ladies and gentlemen, when this House adopted the manifest rule, following the language of Baltasar Gracián's aphorism, which said that I used to be mad at everyone who sane alone, that my group would then prefer to be sane alone, because that was required by reason and the general interest, and today the facts give us reason. What we regret is that the Government would never want to agree with everyone; it always intended a unilateral imposition of the content of a rule and only the agreement of the parliamentary groups to the contrary, gathering the feeling of the sector, was able to modify the original text of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, time will give and take away reasons, but we are faced with a law aimed at legislative failure, a law that means lost time. And I cannot conclude my speech without taking advantage of this rostrum to respond to some of the disqualifications and insults that have been cast against my group, against my party and against the president of my party, in line with what has been happening in recent weeks. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we may have passed a competition law, the former Bankruptcy Law, but perhaps it would have been much better for the Spaniards to pass a law that would improve or prevent the state of political, moral and intellectual bankruptcy of Mr Sánchez's government, a government in a vegetative state. [[applause]] And that is that I say it with respect to vegetables, which in no case deserve to be compared with Mr Sánchez, of whom there has been no idea of profit for a long time. The last occurrence that has emerged from this intellectual realm in which sanchismo has become is to disqualify the president of my party in order for the Spaniards to regain confidence in Mr Sánchez. It is a curious metaphysical transmutation proposed to us by the Socialist Party, in which they have so much faith that up to eleven ministers have occupied their summer in disqualifying Mr Feijóo, whose trajectory is endorsed by nothing more and nothing less than four electoral victories, that many of those who criticize Mr Feijóo - including the Minister of Justice, who should not do so - would wish for his résumé. It all began with Mr Antonio - you will remember - calling us mangroves, an unacceptable tone that this summer has been growing in parallel with the forge of pardon to the righteous Grindan, for being the most honorable of all the corrupt. And the truth is that between insults and insults Mr Antonio walks as the polls tingle with intense blue the electoral landscape that is expected for this country. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo has been called to everything, and I will not say that this does not slip to the people, because it is not, but to say that it is not our priority not to answer them. Our priority is to find solutions for this terrible return to school in September that Spanish parents face, to respond to the difficulties, to the increase in the shopping basket, to the price of energy, to the price of fuels and also to mismanagement...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u199	Mr. Santamaría, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u200	... questions such as that of my community's hell train, where the Socialist Party's incompetence could have taken many people's lives ahead. It's over now. With regard to the statements made by the ministers, I would like to remind you of what Mr Ríos Rosas said and that when a ministerial post is occupied by a fool, the post seems to be vacant, and this is in good measure - with all due respect - something that is happening to this Government, that many ministerial posts, ladies and gentlemen... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u201	Mr. Santamaría, you have to finish. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u202	...in the light of the statements of its holders, they appear to be vacant. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u203	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your presence here today and for listening to this splendour of insults from the spokesman for the People's Party, who we thought was going to talk about the Competition Law. It is true that the goat throws on the mountain, Mr Santamaría, you like aphorisms and you cannot stop trying to win gallons in your party by insulting this government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Competition Law returns to this House, a law that came out - I remember - with the chill of zero votes against, and it does so causing a delay of one month in its implementation, by the obstinacy of the People's Party to scold and insult the government. The People's Party, once again, with its anti-politics, causes more uncertainty and legal uncertainty. And let us not be fooled, the PP has zero interest in companies, has zero interest in the self-employed; it does not care very much about the European second chance system or science, as we have seen before. For the PP, for his group in the Senate, for his political leadership, in short - whatever, the former, the present - his only interest passes by torpedoing everything they can and blocking, even at the risk of creating legal noises. Mr. Santamaría, we've been here for three years, we all know each other, we know what you're doing, this isn't new. And when it is not enough for them to block, they try to expand, they try to delay any measures the Government proposes. They only look at their own selfish interest in their own political survival. As one of his men said, and I open tables, Let Spain fall, and we shall lift it up. And that's what they do with their inaction or their boycotting action. Yes, here in Congress, but also in the judiciary - it bothers you to remember it - where there are already 1350 days of more or less constitutional interference. To you, ladies and gentlemen - and I will be very clear to you - you do not care about the Competition Law today, my colleague from the United Nations has told you. As they also demonstrated in the Senate, they do not mind supporting our four amendments to Junts per Cat and going against a law that came out in this House, I repeat, without any vote against. You, with your eagerness to harm the Government of Spain, do nothing but harm Spain and the Spaniards, but not that Spain which you fill your mouths with, flags, bracelets and sofames, but real Spain, Spain which works - today to a greater extent and in quantity in many years - Spain which undertakes, which investigates, which produces, Spain which studies and takes public transport, which, if for you, would pay for the network of closenesses, something which is not now done by the measure of the Government; Spain which gives the face for a future that the PP wants more black. [[applause]] The PP, yes, this PP, has become a real obstacle to the progress of real Spain, and this debate today is a clear example of the disdain and disloyalty with which you systematically face the problems facing this government. If you already have trouble passing papers from one outgoing address to another incoming address because you don't trust yourself, how will your Spaniards trust you? How can they trust you? Look, they weren't in the fight against COVID at the toughest times but to propose the opposite of what was being requested at each time. They are neither expected nor expected - I recall - in the constitutional mandate to renew the council, assuming with their role the most partisan use of justice that has been seen in our country, which, coming from you, is already complicated. They have not been and are not in the decrees we need to make the impact of a war on our European borders smaller; I insist, they are not. And they are not when companies need our legislation because this debate, ladies and gentlemen, is not about whether the amendments they have supported in the Senate are better or worse. Read the report of the Senate lawyers, which warns of the contradiction of these amendments with the approved law. You voted to do so out of pure revenge against the government. Who do you want to cheat on? This debate goes on where each one sits at every moment, and the PP has chosen to place itself behind the backs of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, in these nearly three years that we have been in the legislature on numerous occasions, the government has not been able to choose. The Government and Spain have seen themselves in a series of unthinkable situations until recently and have tried to overcome each of the problems that were emerging, and they were not few or minor. But you, the main party of the opposition, yes you have been able to choose and you have consciously chosen - Casado did and has done Feijóo -, you have chosen at every moment, in every fork, in every dilemma, in every problem, in every crisis, a path, your path, the selfish path of turning your back on dialogue, consensus and state policy. While the Spaniards chose the face, you have chosen the cross. This decision will mark them and be remembered for a long time. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the vote by telematics procedure, I should like to state the outcome of the votes. Result of the votes of the validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Real 13/20022, of 26 July, establishing a new system of contributions for self-employed or self-employed workers and improving the protection by cessation of activity. Votes cast, 349; yes, 260; no, 64; abstentions, 25. As a result, the Royal Decree Law is validated. Request for the processing of the royal decree as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Votes cast, 349; yes, 348; no, 1; no abstentions. Accordingly, the Royal Decree-Law will be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2022, OF 1 AUGUST, OF ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF TRANSPORT, IN THE FIELD OF GOODS AND AID TO THE STUDY, ASSOCIATED TO AMOUNT MEASURES, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REDUCTION OF ENERGY DEPENDENCE OF NATURAL GAS. [[File number 130/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u207	Real 14/2022, of 1 August, of measures of economic sustainability in the field of transport, of scholarships and study aid, as well as of measures of energy saving and efficiency and of reduction of energy dependence on natural gas. Votes cast, 349; yes, 187; no, 161, abstentions, 1. As a result, the Royal Decree Law is validated. Request for the processing of the real as a bill by the urgency procedure. Votes cast, 349; yes, 342; no, 6, abstentions, 1. Accordingly, the Royal Decree-Law will be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2022, OF 1 AUGUST, BY WHICH EMERGENCY MEASURES ARE TAKEN IN THE FIELD OF FOREST AFFAIRS. [[File number 130/000087]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u208	Real 15/2022 of 1 August, adopting urgent measures on forest fires. Votes cast, 348; yes, 265; no, 6; abstentions, 77. As a result, the Royal Decree Law is validated. Request for the processing of the royal decree law as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Votes cast, 349; yes, 170; no, 177; abstentions, 2. Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u209	Overall vote on the text of the draft Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom as being of the same organic nature. Votes cast, 349; yes, 205; no, 141, abstentions, 3. Accordingly, the text was adopted as it stood. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u210	I proceed to state the result of the Senate's vote on the amendment to the bill amending Act No. 14/2011 of 1 June 2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation. Votes cast, 349; yes, 108; no, 189; abstentions, 52. The amendment is therefore rejected. - DRAFT REFORM LAW OF THE REFUND TEXT OF THE COMPETITION LAW, ADOPTED BY THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 1/2020 OF 5 MAY, FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVE 2019/1023 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 20 JUNE 2019, ON PREVENTIVE RESTRUCTURING FRAMEWORKS, EXEMPTION OF DUTY AND INHABILITIES, AND ON MEASURES TO INCREASE [[EU]] THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RESTRUCTURING, INSOLVENCY AND EXEMPTION OF DUTY PROCEDURES, AND AMENDING DIRECTIVE 2017/1132 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL ON CERTAIN ASPECTS OF THE RIGHT OF COMPANIES [[DIRECTIVE ON RESTRUCTURING AND INSOLVENCY]] [[File number 121/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-08-25-CD220825.u211	I now proceed to state the result of the votes of the amendments approved by the Senate to the draft law amending the consolidated version of the competition law, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020 of 5 May, for the transposition of Directive 2019/1023 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt relief and disqualifications, and on measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and debt relief procedures, and amending Directive 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council, on certain aspects of company law [[Restructuring and Insolvency Directive]] Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 15. Votes cast, 348; yes, 122; no, 226; no abstentions. The amendment is therefore rejected. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 150 and three, with regard to Article 690. Votes cast, 348; yes, 171; no, 175; abstentions, 2. The amendment is therefore rejected. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph one hundred and fifty-three, as regards the heading and Article 704.7. Votes cast, 348; yes, 119; no, 175; abstentions, 54. The amendment is therefore rejected. Amendment to the third transitional provision. Votes cast, 348; yes, 149; no. 175; abstentions, 24. The amendment is therefore rejected. Amendment to the preamble with regard to paragraph 57. Votes cast, 348; yes, 119; no, 175; abstentions, 54. The amendment is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments to the preamble. Votes cast, 346; yes, 171; no, 173; abstentions, 2. The amendments are therefore rejected. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was five and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
