ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 25, corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u2	We begin with the debate on the consideration of the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the first initiative of the afternoon will begin and I ask you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u3	Thank you, President. Gerardo Iglesias was secretary general of the Communist Party of Spain between 1982 and 1988, and when he left, he was not expected by any Board of Directors or any privileged forum, but he returned to work in the mine, in his native Asturias, and suffered an accident that has left important sequels to his back. Despite this accident, although he is already retired, despite being 77 years old, he has decided to give another battle in his long political career. Before becoming secretary general, Gerardo Iglesias' career was long, from support for the anti-fascist maquis, being a child, to the unionism that promoted the great mining strike of 1962. This was worth three arrests, in 1964, 1967 and 1974, and four years in prison. In the arrests he was subjected to torture and this is what he decided to denounce in May 2018. He denounced his executioner, the Honored Police Officer of the Source. After the usual case, he appealed to the Constitutional Court which, in January last year, admitted his application for amparo by 8 votes to 3. These 3 - important fact - expressed their differences through particular votes, including that of the magistra María Luisa Balaguer, whose reading I recommend to you. In the Constitutional order - in the order of non-admission - it is possible to read: The dismissal of the complaint results from any relevant point and the filing of the case is well justified taking into account the principle of legality and the prohibition of the retroactiveity of the non-favorable sanctioning rules. Later, in the same order, it is also read: The possibility of resorting to international law as a source of criminal types, especially the customary one, is incompatible with the principle of criminal legality, both from the formal guarantee and from the material guarantee. Beyond the statute of limitations, the Amnesty Law, and above all this above-mentioned principle of legality, have been the reasons given by Spanish judges to reject the prosecution of crimes of Francoism. The proposal for a law that we are defending today proposes this last way, that of international law, to investigate the crimes of Francoism. Crimes against humanity were incorporated into the Spanish Penal Code in 2004, but previously, and when these crimes were committed by the dictatorship, they were already considered by the general principles recognized in the international community, in particular by the Nuremberg principles. We therefore start from the consideration of Francoist institutional violence as a crime against humanity, as defined in article 7 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court; that is, crimes such as the murder, imprisonment, torture or persecution of minorities with different identities on political grounds which are carried out in a general or systematic manner against the civilian population; this is the definition of the crime against humanity. And it is a violence that would extend beyond the death of the dictator, since between 1975 and 1983 there are an estimated 178 victims of the State Security Forces and 67 other victims of the extreme right, very often connected with the police and the information services. It is therefore the international nature of these crimes that determines the universal nature of jurisdiction. These crimes are imprescriptible, uncompromising, pardonable and subject to judicial persecution at all times and places. Memory is not revenge. No one is giving the battle for memory with the desire to see some elderly ex-cops in bars. Memory constitutes a right to the identity of individuals, a right to be recognized the legitimacy of a path of commitment and struggle. And even more, memory is also an ingredient for the future; memory is key to the guarantees of non-repetition to which the famous formula refers. In the Spanish State, for example, torture has continued after Francoism, and this is also because there was no policy of persecution of this systematic practice of the Francoist police; there was no cleansing, and the 78 regime has allowed torture with total impunity. For this reason, even today - to give you some examples - there is an opposition within the police forces that the police station of Via Laietana, in Barcelona, is a memorial against repression and torture. And today Tuesday - every two Tuesdays - the collectives are faithfully and permanently concentrated by memory in Barcelona. For this impunity, according to the study of the Egiari Zor Foundation, only 3% of victims of torture have obtained some kind of recognition, and also for this impunity continue to rain the convictions of the European Court of Human Rights for not investigating allegations of torture. See if there is little awareness against torture in the Spanish State that the person who today holds the post of Minister of the Interior is the one who has the sad record of convictions of the Court of Strasbourg for not having investigated these allegations of torture; in particular, seven convictions from Strasbourg for Mr Marlaska. Do not tell me, therefore, that this impunity has nothing to do with the weakness of the policies of memory in the Spanish State. A few days ago, the Attorney General's Office proposed to open an investigation into crimes committed in Ukraine with the invasion of Putin. It is a paradox that crimes are being prosecuted in Ukraine and yet there has been no single trial of those responsible for the franchise. There is a revival of the Spanish imperial idea, which is expressed in some books with many sales and also in statements by political representatives - mainly from the right but not only from the right - and a derivative of this imperial revisionism is the contempt for Latin American republics and yet the policies of truth, justice and reparation of many of them make the Spanish state blush. Last month, for example, a trial began in Bahía Blanca, Argentina, against 38 people accused of human rights violations against 334 people who were abducted, held captive and tortured in clandestine centers of the Argentine dictatorship in the 1970s. It is also in Argentina where many family members, comrades and friends of victims of Francoism and the Transition have gone to seek justice. The Argentine lawsuit and Judge Servini have assumed the responsibilities that the Spanish judiciary does not assume and neither the Legislative Power if it refuses proposals like the one that we bring in today; a judge, Servini, who in 2014 was quoted with the president of the grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Estela de Carlotto, to give her a huge news. He said to him, "We have recovered one grandson, one more grandson, it is number 114. And then he said, It is yours, Estela, it is your grandson. This beautiful scene, which means the commitment to the memory of many entities, but also of the public authorities, particularly in Argentina, contrasts with the realities in the Spanish State. Meanwhile, in the Spanish state the law of stolen babies is still stuck. Meanwhile, in the Spanish State the law of memory also remains stuck because it does not gather sufficient support for a text that the special rapporteur himself for truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of the United Nations, Mr Fabián Salvioli, made clear right here in Congress a month ago, which is clearly insufficient. For in the meantime, in the Spanish State Gerardo Iglesias, of whom he began to tell his story, as well as the relatives, comrades and friends of the 2238 shot in Paterna, of Salvador Puig Antich, of the last shot in September 1975, of those killed in Vitoria in 1976 and of those killed in the Sanfermines of 1978; of Arturo Ruiz, of Yolanda González, of Miquel Grau or of Gustau Muñoz. In recognition of all of them and the people who tirelessly keep their memory alive, facilitate the processing of this law for the sake of truth, justice, reparation and the construction of guarantees of non-repetition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u4	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u5	Madam President, Mr Guztioi. Today we are discussing the consideration of a proposal for a law aimed at amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code; an amendment to the Criminal Code which seeks nothing more and nothing less than to support the right to truth, justice and reparation of victims of crimes against humanity committed during the Civil War and Francoism, which are still denied in the Spanish State. We recognize that this is not the only area from which action should be taken to guarantee this right, but making the proposed changes would be an important step towards ending impunity. I am talking about impunity because to this day that is what the victims are living: impunity. Impunity regime for the remaining Francoism, as has been pointed out, among others, by more than three hundred Spanish State memorialist associations, various UN human rights rapporteurs, Amnesty International and a long number of international organizations and bodies related to the defence of human rights. As most of you know, the inhibition in 2008 by the National Court of the complaint filed in 2006 for homicides and enforced disappearances in the context of crimes against humanity committed in Spain between 1936 and 1951 involved the derivation of jurisdiction to numerous competent territorial courts, and they were, one by one, filing the cases, a trend that was consolidated by the Supreme Court's judgement of 27 February 2012, court that in its motivation supported the impediments to investigating the crimes of the Civil War and Francoism, reasons that human rights organizations, such as Amnesty International, find contrary to international law, such as: the existence of an amnesty law and final point, the application of the statute of limitations on the crime against humanity committed by Francoism and the impossibility of prosecuting crimes because at the time they were not criminalized, among others. For years, and still today, since the various instances, in addition to the victims themselves and their families, it has been criticized and denounced that Spain has not investigated or investigated the crimes of international law committed during the Civil War and Francoism, crimes for which all States have the power to exercise their criminal jurisdiction in order to end impunity. And I reaffirm myself literally again in an assertion by Amnesty International: To date, the attitude of Governments has contradicted the principle that crimes under international law - crimes against humanity - are imprescriptible and must be prosecuted without time limits. Furthermore, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, ratified by Spain, provides that nothing shall preclude the trial or the conviction of a person for acts or omissions which at the time of their commission are offences in accordance with the general principles of law recognized by the international community. The Rome Statute states that States have a duty to put an end to impunity by exercising their criminal jurisdiction against those responsible for international crimes and, under the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, article 27, the State may not invoke the provisions of its domestic law as justification for non-compliance with a treaty. The judiciary is obliged to apply international law, the hierarchy of which is superior to any national norm, by interpreting the principle of legality in accordance with international law. In addition to investigating and prosecuting crimes under international law, the prosecutor's office must cooperate fully in any criminal proceedings with foreign courts which, under the principle of universal jurisdiction, are aware of crimes under international law committed in the Spanish State. We are one of the promoters of this initiative and we believe that it is urgent to take these steps in the adequacy of our internal law to reform the principle of legality from a perspective of international human rights law, as well as to resume the processing of the various legislative initiatives related to historical memory that are currently inexplicably paralyzed in this Congress, condemned to ostracism on account of unknown interests or specific wills; thus, I refer to the draft law on stolen babies, the proposal for the reform of the law on official secrets and the draft law on democratic memory, whose immediate activation today are key to the realization of once and for all the truth, justice and reparation for crimes against humanity committed in the Franco dictatorship. After forty-three years since the Constitution was adopted, it is already time for the Government to stop relying on the Francoist law of official secrets and to continue to conceal the truth about Francoist crimes. It is time to open the doors of the courts to all the complaints and complaints filed, thus ending the tortuous interpretation that is being made of the state and international regulations of application. And finally, it is time to materialize a policy of reparation that goes far beyond merely administrative and media matters and addresses in depth all the damage caused by the human rights violations carried out by Francoism. [[Rumors]] In short, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it's time now...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u7	... to end impunity for the crimes of Francoism that remain settled in our laws, in our justice and in government policy. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u9	Thank you, Madam President. I'll step in from the seat. I think we're discussing a matter of justice. Of course it also has its legal aspects, but above all it is justice; after all, we talk about the fact that crimes against humanity do not go unpunished. As is being proposed, the principle of legality is covered in the sense that the foreseeable existence of knowledge that these crimes were identified as such in international law and therefore awareness that they were being committed is envisaged. And the taxivity first in international law, although we know that in international law it is a blank rule, but then it was corroborated by incorporation into domestic law by modification of the legal system. In short, it is the custom of international law to make it a source of criminal law. The courts in Spain have made a different interpretation when dealing with this. There is the Scilingo case, in the National Court - year 2005 - and in the explanatory statement of this initiative is basically the reasoning of the National Court in the Scilingo judgment of 2005. I know that the Supreme Court later corrected it and also confirmed it by the Constitutional Court, but it is true that there have been different interpretations within Spanish jurisprudence. And I insist, going back to the beginning of my presentation, that what it is all about is solving a case of justice. We shall therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u11	Thank you, President. One of the main ideologists of criminal liberalism, the Marquis of Beccaría, states that only the laws already written can establish sanctions. This principle is reflected in the legislative body of any Western democracy, and in our case it begins with the Amnesty Act, which was promoted by the left, which did fight Franco - to live Franco, I mean - and is also reflected in articles 9.3 of the Constitution and 2 of the Penal Code. Democracy is not without the principle of legality. However, after an exercise in empathy with the proposing groups, I have found two reasons why you can present this. The first is that it is normal for those who want to suppress human rights and put dictionaries in their place because they believe that people are less than languages do not care about the fundamental pillars of a democracy. For you people are something accessory to the ground, to history and to language, and that's how everything is understood. A second reason I found is his love for magic. You, just as you believe that the rights emanate from the stones and not from the laws and the Constitution, just as you believe that the rights are due to history and not to the laws, in a clear prevalence of the dead over the living, it is normal that you believe that dictators, murderers and other bloody purria should be persecuted after the dead. They want the Penal Code to become a kind of eyeboard, although that has serious side effects. You spend so much energy chasing dead dictators that then you don't know what to do with living dictators. It happens with Maduro to many of you and it happens with Putin now: you are waiting for them to be dead to dig them up. I also recognize that it is shocking that they want to condemn dead criminals while on Saturday they pay tribute to a living criminal, also, by the way, a terrorist and it is also a crime against humanity, Mr Botran. These tributes don't look bad to you. Why can you pay tribute to Aginaga, a living criminal, and while you're bringing here today chasing dead criminals? Why did you all vote against the citizens' law, which prevents tributes to living killers, but today you vote in favour of chasing dead killers? Bildu, I understand, they're yours, they're here for them and they're exercising their voice, but, for example, the Basque Nationalist Party... Because the tribute to the terrorist this weekend has been on a municipal pediment of Berango, where the PNV governs. Hundreds of people have come to this tribute. I imagine the conversation with the mayor of Berango, of the PNV. - Mayor, there's a tribute to a terrorist on the municipal pediment. - Quick, take the egg and the ectoplasm meter. - No, Mayor, he's alive. - Oh, no, I live not; our competition to pursue criminals is ultra-tomb. Gentlemen of the PSOE, these tributes happen because you voted against the law of Citizens and trusted the word of terrorists. You are jointly responsible for the omission of these tributes and the consequent humiliation of the victims. The nationalists of this House call for retroactively pursuing crimes in the Civil War and in the dictatorship, but this can have adverse effects for all of you, and I explain myself. Imagine that someone, on the basis of this legal reform, makes a complaint to any of you for betraying the Republic, or for collaborating with franchising, or for negotiating with Axis powers, and a judge opens the case and says: let's go for it. To see, for example, the political parents of the CUP, the Catalan nationalist right - today Junts, and the PDECAT - what role did the preconvergents play in Franco's coup? The same as in the Primo de Rivera coup: they financed it, from Cambó to Juan March. [[Applauds]] There is a very extensive literature on what was the role of Catalan right-wing nationalism and how it financed Franco. Would giving Franco remedies against the Republic be condemned for this legal reform? In fact, the relationship of Francoism with Convergence continued in democracy; more than two thirds of Francoist mayors one day rose up in Falange and slept in Convergence. They were coming home. Let us see Esquerra and his accession to the Republic. We can read in Azaña's newspapers. A judge takes Azaña's newspapers and says: let's see what Azaña said about what happened those days. Azaña, exhausted, complained about the constant betrayals of nationalism. In the case of the Catalans, the fact that the Generalitat ordered the assault on the Banco de España was sounded. They took all the gold of the Republic and kept it doing a monumental blow in the arks of the republican side. At the same time, they opened contacts through the Badia brothers with Nazi Germany to negotiate an independent status of Catalonia in the event of the victory of the national coup, the same Badia brothers who paraded fascists with 'brown shirts' of the Català State throughout Catalonia, the same Badia who together with Esquerra militants tortured and murdered anarchists weakening the CNT ranks because they were competing with them. [[Several Members make negative gestures]] Don't scare me, there's the story, and if you don't, then they fix me. Torturing and murdering anarchists by weakening anti-Franchism in Catalonia, would it be persecutable with this legal reform? And this I read to you I do not say, writes Azaña. Read your newspapers - I open quotes -: 'You have taken advantage of the July uprising and the subsequent confusion to grow with impunity thanks to the weakness in which the July military rebellion left the Republic, and you have lived not only in disobedience, but in frank rebellion and insubordination - close quotes -'. He's getting tired talking about the Generalitat of Catalonia. They took advantage of the Republic's bleeding to take steps towards secession by facilitating Franco's progress, something they were perfectly aware of and that is why they opened international contacts to facilitate a status for Catalonia. What about the PNV? How was the PNV's relationship with Franco? I don't mean the PNV that went in mass with Franco, like the PNV of Álava, but the other PNV. Let's talk about the Pact of Santoña. I am based on an undeniable source, Alberto Onaindia's memoirs, the priest who sent the PNV to talk with the Italians and who agreed to betray the Republic by not sending the Basque army to defend Santander, which actually caused the fall of Santander. They delivered Bilbao without a shot and the High Horns to Franco in exchange for a negotiation they had with the Italians so that they would then make a favor. There's a telegram from Mussolini asking Franco for a favor with regard to the Basque prisoners. To betray the Republic by deserting in Santander, handing over Bilbao and the High Horns without firing a shot, would it be persecutable for this reform? I look forward to telling how the Communist Party helped the Germans to take France, because then they had Hitler and Franco a pact, says Chaves Nogales in France's agony. I'm on my way, President. If they pass this law, three things will happen: one, democratic guarantees will be charged; two, they will end up exorcisming alongside the ghost hunters...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u12	Mr. Díaz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u13	I'm on my way, President. ... and three, above all, can end their parties dissolved by collaboration with Francoism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u14	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u15	Thank you, Madam President. When we're talking about all the pain, all the death, all the suffering caused by forty years of dictatorship, when we're talking about thousands of victims still in the gutter, the truth is that it's hard to be more miserable, it's hard to hear more miserable interventions than the one we just heard. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] This initiative, registered jointly by the BNG, Esquerra Republicana, EH-Bildu, PNV, Junts, Compromís, Más País, En Comú Pomero and the CUP, and promoted - to be said - by CEAQUA within the intergroup of democratic memory, aims to end once and for all the impunity of the franchise resulting from the lack of investigation of crimes against humanity committed during the dictatorship and the prosecution of those responsible, for which the Amnesty Law is invoked, as well as the principle of legality established in articles 1 and 2 of the current Criminal Code. The victims of these crimes or their families have been waiting in some cases for more than eighty years for justice to be done; a justice that they could not expect in the dictatorship, but which also denied them - it denied everyone, all - the Spanish constitutional regime. It is clear to us that the Spanish State will not be able to claim itself as democratic as long as they maintain impunity for the crimes of the dictatorship and as long as they can only be investigated in other countries, such as Argentina, as long as they do not guarantee in practice the principles of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. That is why the BNG believes it is urgent to act. The Government is late with the law on democratic memory, which must particularly affect the Amnesty Act by repealing articles 2 (e) and (f), because this cannot be a new missed opportunity to make real progress. In addition, in order to ensure without any doubt access to effective judicial guardianship and to ensure compliance with the principle of international legality, it is necessary to amend the Criminal Code, a law of an organic nature, adding a new article, 2 bis, which makes it possible to investigate the crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship. It is an elementary question of justice, we owe it to the victims and also to democratic decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u16	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u17	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The first thing I want to note is that the Transition was precisely that, a smooth step from one regime to another with all the inheritances received, but without responsibilities by means. The same French Head of State, the same Francoist bodies and security forces, and also, of course, the same Francoist administrative and judicial elites; the same in the same posts. Faced with this, what we say is that the Franco regime was not the previous regime, but a radically illegal fascist dictatorship. And there is the crux of the issue, in the radical illegality of the Franco regime and in the consequent need to end a system of judicial impunity built to protect its crimes from all accountability. The purpose of this law is to ensure that crimes of genocide and against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship can be duly investigated and tried. Ladies and gentlemen, in an ideal world the proposal we are presenting should never be dealt with, because it would simply be repetitive. What happens is that we are not in an ideal world, the Spanish justice is far from being an ideal justice, because they live in it, especially in its key positions, anti-democratic inertias of the Franco regime; and, I add, they not only survive, but have been reproduced and multiplied lately. The consequence of this situation is impunity for crimes against humanity committed by individuals, with names and surnames, during the Franco dictatorship. All cases have been systematically closed with the crude argument that the principles of criminal legality and irretroactivity of the unfavourable criminal law of the Criminal Code must be respected. This legalistic wit to cover up Francoist crimes blushes any Democrat and, also, any Liberal, but the real ones, not those who have to say every two sentences that are liberal and that are more Francoist than the Collars, and we come here to talk about the gold of Moscow and other hot topics. All the way over here! Despite the fact that the Kingdom of Spain has signed and ratified all existing and existing international human rights treaties, which reflect both the rights of victims and the obligation of States to prosecute these crimes. Despite the fact that international law is already domestic law for all purposes, the sad reality of Spanish justice is that each and every one of the judicial decisions handed down by the Spanish courts and tribunals has been in the sense of inadmissibility with the argument that the principle of legality that prevails is internal, disconnected from international law. We, the Junts per Catalunya and the other proposing groups, want the right to prevail to be international law and that, if Spanish judges and courts listen deafly to international law, they must be obliged to do so. This judicial autarchy must be brought to an end. We repeat, although the principle of international legality is already in force in the Spanish State, because international treaties are domestic law, it is necessary to put it in writing in the Penal Code, in order to leave no room for impunity for Francoist crimes. The question is, what are Members of the Socialist Party going to do? Are you going to allow justice to be imposed? Are they going to allow impunity to end or are they going to continue to cover up the franchise alongside PP, VOX and the false liberals? This is the question that is raised here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u18	Thank you, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u19	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard this speech a thousand times, full of topics and typical of the most racy right. But be careful, because after Putin's thing they're going to end up buying Maduro's oil and even Biden's meeting with him; that can go from being a dictator to being a statesman. I recommend that you be very careful about what you say. [[Applauds]] We are discussing today the consideration of an initiative that carries the signature of many groups, also ours, but above all of organized civil society and of the memorial movement; an initiative that we have worked with the comrades and companions of the parliamentary intergroup of memory and with the State Coordinator of Support to the Argentine Querella against Crimes of Francoism. This is a simple, non-simple bill. We say that it is simple because, as has already been mentioned, it consists of a single article, the only point of which proposes the inclusion of a new article in the Criminal Code. This new article entails the drafting and formal reception of the known domestic legal order as a principle of international legality from the perspective of international law, as enshrined in article 15.2 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and article 7.2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In other words, the first and second articles of the Code contain two basic principles of criminal law, which coincide with Feuerbach's aphorism and which we know today as the principle of legality nullum crime, nulla poena sine lege. The article we introduce is, if you want, an exception to the provisions of those articles, although we technically do not consider it an exception. It is stipulated that the provisions of articles 1 and 2 shall not prevent the prosecution of acts or omissions which at present constitute a crime of genocide, of humanity or of war crimes. We, as Republicans, do not question the principle of criminal legality because it is a barrier to arbitrary action by the public authorities. In our view, this proposal for a law does not do so either. Today, when we talk about criminal legality, we are not only referring to the set of rules that govern exclusively in the territory of a given State. We have left behind this Hobbesian world of the anarchy of international relations and, therefore, when we talk about criminal legality, we talk about domestic legal systems, obviously, but also about international criminal law, and that is what we refer to. See, for example, the pronouncements of the Special Court for Sierra Leone, the Special Court for Lebanon or, as I have already said, the European Convention on Human Rights or the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This amendment coincides with Amnesty International's recommendations regarding the Democratic Memory Bill as one of the essential measures to break the obstacles to the judicial investigation of crimes under international law committed in the Spanish State during the Civil War and Francoism. In this regard, the UN rapporteur - already in his report for the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of July 2014 - also expressed concern about what he described as an excessive formalism in the interpretation of the law by the Spanish judicial authorities, because he not only denies access to justice, but also prevents any kind of investigation and the assessment of possible alternatives to guarantee the right of victims to truth and justice. It also called into question and question the application of the Amnesty Act of 1977. We hope that this initiative will prosper and that there will not be enough media to cover up the embarrassment that would otherwise be, although it is most likely not to, and will not do so because of the majority group of the Government. And another proof is his proposal for the law of democratic memory, which he took advantage of to name it, the one that they used to laugh at Tardà in 2007, when he said it was insufficient and now they have reopened with a new make-up as a catapult. [[Applauds]] They make it look like everything changes to make it the same. Republican Left, with thousands of persecuted and murdered and thousands of imprisoned, and not for corruption, will have the dignity you do not have, too, to do this. We have already put the conditions on the table, and they have been made public, for the Republican Left to validate a law of memory, which are to recognize and repair the heritage of the Francoist expolius, the declaration of full illegality of the regime that emerged from the 1936 coup d'état and the repeal of the Amnesty Act of 1977 to end impunity for crimes. Today's initiative is an important step on the road to dismantling the Spanish model of impunity agreed with the Transition, historical memory, a model that has made impossible the condemnation of the Franco dictatorship and the recognition of the victims of repression. In short, there is no breach of procedural guarantees; there is no legal uncertainty; we trust that today, at last, there is justice for all the victims of Francoism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating crimes against humanity and we cannot begin without expressing our solidarity with the neighbours of Odessa, Kiev or the other Ukrainian cities besieged under the bombs of Putin. [[Applauds]] Today is also a day to remember another heinous crime. Recently, in a month of March, like this one of 1974, Francoism vilely murdered Salvador Puig Antich. Today, 48 years later, from this rostrum, we want to send a message of solidarity to his sisters and to all the victims of Francoism, such as those who are accompanying us in this debate today, Rosa, Cuchi, Nieves, Pablo, Jacinto and the rest of CEAQUA's colleagues. Thank you for your dignity, thank you for your persistence in the fight against crimes that are an indelible stigma in the history of humanity. [[Applauds]] This law goes from that. Do not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, we do not ask the dictatorship to account, we ask the democracy to account, the only one in Europe that has not assumed those accounts because, it is true, the Republicans buried in the counties were killed by the Franco dictatorship, but it is this democracy that still keeps them there, in the pits. And it is true, Puig Antich was murdered by the Francoist executioners, by the way, linked to the People's Party, but it is this democracy that covers them up and prevents the channels of access to justice. [[protests]] Today, a lawsuit against Martín Villa has been filed in Vitoria. [[Rumors]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is linked to your party. That struggle to break the line of continuity between Francoism and democracy is no occurrence or whim. It is not the battles of the grandfather or the war-civilist rivalry, as we are told by the People's Party; it is a moral, political, but also legal requirement, because we are part of the international community and international law is binding. It is an act of justice, of democratic hygiene, which if it looks to the past it is to build a more dignified future, because forgetting the suffering of the past is to forget the forces that have provoked it, without succeeding in overcoming those same forces when they reappear. So today the question is, what is this Congress going to do? Are you going to act or are you going to stand idly by? The right-wing answer we already know: they would want the victims - who give them up for dead, according to Mr. Díaz in his speech; they are up there, but, according to Mr. Díaz, everyone is dead here - to be invisible, that they did not bother, that they stayed in the corners of oblivion and that today we do not remember that 85 years ago bombs were raining in Barcelona, as now in Kiev. What a mania to remove the past, to snort in the wound!, they tell us as they offend the victims by going to honour the dictator, as they erase the names of Republican Democrats from the streets of Madrid to replace them by Francoists or as they rule in Castile and León with the nostalgics of the dictatorship. [[Protests]] But the key issue here is what the other Members, especially the Socialist Party Members, are going to do. We have heard Mr. Díaz of Citizens, saying that these crimes cannot be prosecuted because they were not crimes at the time they were committed. That they were not crimes or that they were not now in the light of Francoist laws, as were the crimes of Nazism in the light of the Third Reich, do not make them legal. They are not acts of law, they are acts of barbarism, and that is what the convictions of Nuremberg say, but also those of Strasbourg in numerous judgments, for example, in a parallel to the facts we are talking about here: the murder of Puig Antich, in the 1970s. The soldiers of the former German Democratic Republic who were shooting at the crossing of the Berlin Wall were convicted by the Strasbourg Court. They said that they were obeying orders, that there was a border law that forced them to shoot, but the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is an essential core of human rights whose violation represents an extreme injustice against which there is no argument of legal certainty, of principle of legality or of non-retroactivity of the rule that is valid, as Mr Díaz says. That is what the Court of Luxembourg has told us, but that is also what the European human rights institutions tell us. It is a reminder of the obvious, the UN has told us; there is no impediment in national or international law to progress in the prosecution and condemnation of those responsible, because there are abominable crimes, such as genocide or inhumanity, which by their cruelty do not prescribe and do not admit immunity. They are crimes that offend not only those who suffer them, but humanity as a whole, and that is precisely why, regardless of when, where or who, they can always be pursued from any corner of the world. From that beginning, the courts in Spain pursued crimes in other countries, such as Chile and Argentina. Then, the criminals said that there was an amnesty law in Chile and Argentina, but that did not work to avoid their conviction. What happens is that when the focus was on the dirty rags themselves, then what wasn't worth to them was worth to us. It is therefore important for Argentina to remind us that in the name of humanity there are no pacts of silence or oblivion that stand in the face of the advancement of human rights. The same goes for the work we have done in this Congress: more than 40 amendments to the law of democratic memory. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and also of the Republican Left, it is time to get that law out of the freezer. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not worth half the ink: either it is with the victims or it is with the victims. The right has already chosen a side. Now we need to know where the rest of us are; but, when we do, let us not forget the warning of the relatives of the Chilean disappeared in the 1970s...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u22	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u23	... those who seek impunity laws will be as responsible in the future as those who pulled the trigger in the past. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u24	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u25	With all due respect, Madam President. Before I make an orderly statement of the reasons for our opposition to this proposal for organic law, I will make some reference to the things I have just heard. A spokesman, a Catalan independenceist who I cannot identify by his name, will forgive me, but Catalan independenceists are like repeated chromes all, he said: crude argument the principle of criminal legality. [[laughs]] Burdo argument has said; this gentleman I suppose he has not studied Law, and if he has studied it, I suppose he will not exercise any legal profession, because, of course, I do not know what would be the fate of his clients. Another has said: nostalgia of the dictatorship, I interpret that referring to VOX and PP or PP and VOX. Well, we have no nostalgia for any dictatorship; what you do have and profess is love for the dictatorships present, as you credit every day with your support for the Castro, Bolivarian and whatever dictatorships of the communist world are and remain. [[Applauds]] A third, I think it was Mr Asens, said that there are no half inks here. No, they don't fit. And what do you tell me, Mr Asens, that it has had to be a Commission of the European Parliament which, in 2022 - your report has not yet been published - will urge the Kingdom of Spain to investigate the crimes of the ETA that have not been investigated or tried? Has this forgotten you along the way? The three, the four already the five are forgotten by the way the sixty million dead killed by the Maoist Republic of China; sixty million. [[Applauds]] Neither are these? What kind of ink are these, the average, the red, the blue, or what? [[Applauds]] Or the twenty million of the Soviet Union; this does not seem to you to be relevant either. Well, the intention of this bill is a political - political - intention of all its proponents, including, surprisingly, the Basque Nationalist Party; the Basque Nationalist Party, which, as I said last week, participated in the government of the Popular Front that emerged from the fraudulent elections of February 1936 in the person of Manuel Irujo. Yeah. I remind you, in case you do not know, that Irujo made it a condition for his participation in his party to put an end to religious repression in Spain; religious repression that has given rise, according to the documented study that dates back to 1961 by Antonio Montero, to 6832 murders of clergy and religious. Don't these get in the inks either, Mr. Asens? What kind of ink are they, black by the caskets? Or what ink is this, black by the red of the shed blood? [[Applauds]] It is a shame that you come to say these things here; you can say them in your rallies with the intention of deceiving your voters, who in good faith or naively can believe it; here you would not have to have the shame of saying these things, because some of us know some of the history of Spain; of course, more than you, no doubt, and not with that sectarian spirit that characterizes you. [[Applauds]] Mr De Irujo, Don Manuel, who rested in peace, on January 9, 1937, presented his memorandum in the Council of Ministers, still chaired by Largo Caballero, about religious repression in a very harsh tone - I have here texts that reproduce or transcribe the written words that he presented at that meeting of the Council - and demanded an end to this religious persecution. The Council of Ministers unanimously opposed and Mr De Irujo did not resign; not only did he not resign, but he agreed to participate in a government as criminal as the previous one, which was that of Dr Negrin since May 1937. So the Basque Nationalist Party, as I said last week, also needs to shut up on this issue and should not adhere to such ignominious propositions. [[Applauds]] But besides the intention, there is the realization, and the realization must be judged according to the intention, according to Ortega of the literary work in The Viewer. And here the realization is legally impossible, and I will explain it briefly. Spain acceded in 1968 to the 1948 United Nations Convention on Genocide and in 1971 reformed its Criminal Code, during the Franco regime, to introduce the crime of genocide under the terms of the convention. The terms of the convention and the Penal Code thus drafted under that 1971 reform, as well as the 1995 Penal Code of the democratic period, the work of the Socialist Party - Mr González ruled and Mr Belloch was Minister of Justice, a magistrate - collected the crime of genocide, as well as what they called crimes of the law of peoples. That text had subsequently been reformed and it had been maintained that persecution to be classified as genocide must be national, racial, ethnic or religious, not political. Political persecution would only be a crime against humanity, now in force in the Criminal Code, but it is not possible to judge, even in accordance with what you claim to be a standard of customary international law, facts that have taken place during Francoism or during the first years of the Transition because such invocation of customary international criminal law today is not possible under the unequivocal fact that such criminal law is already codified, at least partially, since the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of 1998...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u26	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u27	... text that admits no exception to the prohibition of retroactivity of criminal laws. Then you claim with this reform - concluded in a second, Madam President - that it can be judged in Spain, according to an aberrant precept, which could not be judged as a crime by the International Criminal Tribunal itself. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u28	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u29	Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC and ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, of the Republican Left, of Bildu, of the BNG, of the Compromises and of the Junts per Catalunya, you represent the real problem of Spanish democracy, the great outstanding problem of our democracy, with that resistance of more than forty years to accept the transition to democracy. Spain made a model transition from the Franco dictatorship to democracy, but you, ladies and gentlemen, have never just made your own transition to democracy; that is, with some help from the Socialist Party and that law of democratic memory that you have led alongside the United We can, which, as you can see, seems very scarce to the extreme left and to the nationalists; a law of memory according to which there was always in Spain a democratic and non-violent left and an authoritarian and violent right. And to establish that lie and make it law, you removed from memory: one, all the violence of the republic; two, all the violence of ETA, and, three, all reference to communism. Well, this proposal for a law is based precisely on those three eliminations that you have made from the democratic memory of this country. The extreme left and the nationalists want to judge the crimes of Francoism by skipping the Amnesty Law and grossly manipulating international legality. And they want to destroy the transition and put the legitimacy of a democracy that they never accepted: the one, the nationalists, because they never accepted the nation and the state of that democracy that is Spain, and the other, the extreme left, because they do not believe in democracy. And it is that this proposal for a law has nothing to do with democracy. Do you remember what happened when we discussed the non-legislative proposal put forward by the People's Group to call for the support of this House for the European Parliament's resolution condemning all totalitarianisms? I repeat, all totalitarianisms: the fascists, which include the Franco dictatorship, the Nazis and the communists. Do you know what happened? The advocate of this bill, its leader, Mr. Botran, shouted - I open quotes -. 'Long live communism and freedom!'. And, by the way, with a lot of applause from that central bench, including, Mr Accensi, the applause of your group, which condemns the Franco dictatorship, yes, but not communism, as occurred in the debate on that non-law proposal. [[Applauds]] And here that defender of communist totalitarianism comes today to question and destroy the transition to democracy, because what he wanted, as a part of that House, was a transition to communism; that is, with a Catalan communist but very independent, the same as Mrs Telechea, the representative of Esquerra Republicana, who has even been allowed today to win over dictator Maduro - trembling - and again with the applause of that central bench. This bill has nothing to do with justice either. Do you remember another moment of glory that the leader of this bill, Mr. Botran, had just before the PNL that I mentioned in 2021? It was when Congressman Botran came up to this rostrum to defend Pablo Hasel, the rapist condemned for raising ETA's terrorism. And see if you're comfortable with the rise of ETA terrorism that even put a song by Hasel in this rostrum. He added that it was pointless to condemn the rise of terrorism because it had already been ten years since what he called - I open quotes - 'the activity of ETA'. That is to say, they want to judge the crimes of seventy or eighty years ago, but they do not want to judge the crimes of ETA, because they do not seem to them to be condemnable. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a coincidence that the defence of this bill coincided with yesterday's presentation of the European Parliament's mission report which, as you know, visited Spain in November 2021 to investigate what was happening with the 379 unresolved murders of ETA, the murders committed, Mr Botran, in democracy. As you know, the period of amendments to the conclusions of this report is now open, and I encourage Members, the parties in this House, to support those conclusions. If we want, if they want to defend democracy and justice, they support the conclusions of this European Parliament report. [[Applauds]] Among these conclusions and recommendations to Spain, I remind you only a few: one, to continue the thorough investigation of all unresolved ETA crimes; two, to pursue the glorification of terrorism; three, to create a commission of jurists to make a detailed report on each outstanding crime; four, to demand from the institutions that the prison benefits of those convicted of terrorism be linked to true repentance and cooperation in the resolution of crimes, and, lastly, to exhaust the possibilities of article 28 of the Criminal Code for ETA leaders at the time of the murders to be prosecuted as instigators.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u30	Mrs. Uriarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u31	If we really want democracy and justice in Spain, they support these recommendations of the European Parliament. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutierrez Salinas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to put some common sense to this debate, because it seems that it is missing this afternoon in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law we are debating seeks to make an exception to the principle of the prohibition of the retroactivity of criminal rules set out in our Constitution. I believe that at this point no one can doubt the commitment of my party, the PSOE, of the government presided over by Pedro Sánchez and, by extension, of my parliamentary group to the victims of the Franco dictatorship. It was the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero who passed the law of historical memory and it was the Council of Ministers of the Government who presided over Pedro Sánchez who approved the draft law of democratic memory, whose purpose is the recognition of those who suffered persecution or violence for political, ideological, conscience or religious belief, of orientation and sexual identity from the coup d'état of 1936 until the promulgation of the Constitution in 1978. [[applause]] This bill determines the consideration of victims in accordance with international human rights standards and declares the nullity of all sentences and sanctions issued during the Civil War and the dictatorship. So, to the Socialist Party, lessons, none. No one has more deaths in mass graves than PSOE and UGT, the brother union. [[Applauds]] Having said that, we cannot vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law which you bring here for several reasons, firstly because this initiative violates three fundamental principles of our legal system: that of criminal legality, that of irretroactivity and that of legal certainty. One of the features of the Francoist legal system was precisely the lack of respect it had for the principle of criminal legality and the principle of retroactivity in the creation and application of crimes such as aid to rebellion or in the creation of special jurisdictions, such as the National Court of Political Responsibility and the subsequent Public Order Court. Thus, with the advent of democracy, the 1978 Constitution, which promulgates a social and legal State, contains the essential legal and procedural guarantees in its preamble and guarantees the principle of legality, the normative hierarchy, the publicity of rules, the irretroactivity of non-proportional sanctioning provisions, legal certainty, liability and the prohibition of arbitrariness of public authorities in its article 9.3. Thus, if we approved his proposal, there would be a serious effect on the most elementary legal certainty. But there are more arguments that justify the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. After analyzing the jurisprudence and, above all, the order of the Constitutional Court of 15 September 2021, there are many doubts that international law protects the retroactivity that you want to introduce in this amendment of the Criminal Code, and I will explain it. At the time the crimes for which retroactivity is attempted were committed, there was no figure in the Spanish criminal law of the crime against humanity, which is introduced in article 607 bis of the Criminal Code. In short, as the Constitutional Court's decision indicates, the constitutional requirements of the principle of legality prevent criminal figures defined in areas that are partially outside our legal system from being applied in our constitutional space in an open, changing, non-homogeneous and non-consolidated manner in a precise wording and do not specifically establish the penalty that corresponds to the conduct sanctioned. While it is true that the Statute of the International Criminal Court of 1998 contains a statute of limitations, article 29 of the Statute provides only for the future and for crimes within its jurisdiction. In addition, in order to understand the exceptional nature of the application of the principle of non-retroactivity, it is important to note how the International Criminal Court expressly reflects this principle in articles 11 and 24, and also includes as the only exceptional rule the most favourable case in investigation, prosecution and conviction. And on the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, it considers that in order for retroactive application to be possible, conditions of minimum certainty and predictability must be provided and that generally recognized principles and norms of international law have already been accepted and recognized in the domestic legal order of nations at the time of committing the criminal acts to which this proposed law refers. For all the above reasons, my group cannot vote in favour of this rule in consideration, because it violates the basic principles of the Spanish legal system as set out in the Spanish Constitution, but it is also not shown that international law clearly indicates and obliges such retroactivity in the domestic legal system of countries. We must give legal certainty to Spanish society, not weaken it, ladies and gentlemen. And before I conclude my speech, I would like to urge you to pass the law of democratic memory, because what Spanish society needs is to make a pedagogy of the events that have taken place, that are known so that they will never be repeated again. [[Applauds]] And now with greater reason, because the ideological heirs of the Franco dictatorship are increasingly booming in Spanish society and for the first time they are going to become part of an autonomous government in Spain with the right hand that was moderated. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Esteban Bravo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Esteban?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u35	I am asking for the floor under Rule 71, for the statements and accusations made regarding my political group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u36	You have one minute to mention the specific allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u37	Mr Díaz - you're talking about backs, but I'm addressing him - you need to be miserable to want to make it clear that the Basque Nationalist Party is pushing tributes to etarras and that it authorizes them. It must be that the mayors of Citizens prevail and do not know that authorizations are regulated. If a legal cultural organization requests a venue for a cultural event, the mayor is absolutely obliged to do so. And in addition, he is expressly told in the car that political use cannot be made. He is bound, because, if not, sanctions would also come against that person. Now, after seeing what happened, it's when a file was opened. By the same token, they could also have accused the delegate of the Government of knowing what was being prepared and of having acted or done absolutely nothing. By the way, if you really say that you know a lot about history, Mr Sánchez, what I also find miserable is that you qualified Mr De Irujo as you did, when you were a person who saved many lives, many, from your ideological co-religionaries. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u38	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the effective recognition of the time of service of the Social Service of Women in access to the Part-Julture Penalty. [[File number 122/00201]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u39	We continue with the agenda item on taking into account the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the effective recognition of women's social service delivery time in access to partial retirement pension. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u40	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed law for the effective recognition of women's social service delivery time in access to the partial retirement pension is a decisive step towards the real and effective equality that Spain needs and longs for. It is a matter of justice and historical reparation. Act No. 21/2021, on pension reform, recognizes the calculation of female social service for the purpose of accessing both voluntary and involuntary early retirement pensions in terms of qualifying it in a synonym for compulsory military and alternative social benefits. In fact, what was already being accepted through case law was collected. With today's bill we bring to the letter of the General Law on Social Security the same equality in relation to partial retirement and we comply with recommendation 17 of the Toledo, Women and Social Security Pact. It is a fundamental step towards the equalization of pension coverage between women and men and we implement the principle of transversality in the elaboration of any rule in order to avoid the negative impact of gender. Someone might have the feeling that it's a proposition of mere processing. If so, ask the 427 women who, pursuant to the Supreme Court ruling of 6 February 2020, have benefited up to the time of early retirement. But let's face it, you'll understand better. A newspaper, El Español, published a couple of years ago the story of Adela Carrió, who was eighteen years old when he was called to 'do his national duty' He was in the first year of university studying Telecommunications Engineering and wanted to get his driver's license. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] At the beginning of the proceedings, they told him that he could not do so without fulfilling the national duty that Franco imposed on single women and that it was equivalent to the military service of men. The women's social service - let's make a little history - was in force from the end of the war until 1978, so many women still had to suffer this double discrimination, first, because they were women, and, secondly, because they did not marry, that is, because they did not go through the ring, because they did not stick to the corset that Francoism imposed on women: submission to the male and absolute dependence. Between 1937 and 1940 it was provided in social welfare centres, on the front and in hospitals. Later, La Falange trained women for what the regime had prepared for them: being good mothers and good wives. And I want to remember that at that time women had no other horizon. But it was also a matter of class, because it turns out that there were women who because of belonging to the upper class did not have to do so. Look at you, things like they are! Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an irrevocable step on the feminist agenda. We cannot change the past but the present. With this proposal of law we improve the lives of those women who had it all more complicated by the mere fact of being women. Socialists and socialists legislate to eradicate inequality, as well as to end gender-based violence, although some seek to redefine it by placing it in domestic violence. I think we will have to tell these gentlemen, mainly from the PP and especially Mr Feijóo, that domestic violence lacks the structural and gender component that distinguishes it from any other violence against women simply because it is. Ladies and gentlemen, gender discrimination is the one that led Franco to impose on single women the social service of women, and that is the one that sustains this violence against us. Their ignorance - I want to make it clear here - undermines something that is essential in our social and democratic rule of law, the principle of equality. And it's that with gender violence, gentlemen of the PP, you can't surf, but you have to attack face-to-face. I'm surprised you don't even look at the speaker. This is fantastic! It's really because they know I'm going to tell them it's a shame what's going on in Castile and Leon with the signing of the pact of shame. This is going to be a slab that will bind them to fire in front of the desires of the far right, and they will find themselves disfigured; and, if not, at the time. Tell me honestly - and you asked the Members, if any, of Castile and León - what will happen to that preliminary draft of the law on the improvement of gender-based violence that they presented very recently, on September 3, 2021? I remember being filled with their mouths, especially Mr Mañueco, saying that he was going to defend that feminist agenda; then they said that it was even a personal commitment of Mr Mañueco. I'd like some journalist to ask you for three words, gender-based violence, not a rash on your skin. [[Applauds]] Then they said it was gender-based violence, today it's intrafamily and all that so that VOX won't back off on the pact. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be fooled. And, worst of all, don't pretend to fool the rest of the population. But above all, do not mock the women of Castile and Leon, because we know perfectly well what the law of domestic violence consists of. You verbalize it and put black on white, don't hurt clothes. The Congress debated on 23 February last year and told them clearly, they were told by naming each of the murders, today already 1133 as a result of gender-based violence, and they were told that the domestic law did not stand up. Its domestic violence law is a Trojan horse to repeal the gender violence law, and, worst of all, leaves women and child victims unprotected to leave the path of abusers and murderers hasty. Ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists are fighting against all these inequalities. This pact of shame, I think, seeks to unravel what has already been walked in this Congress and, of course, the socialists, especially the Socialists of Castile and León, we will be very vigilant. [[Applauds]] This bill that we present today is the most evident proof that the feminist agenda is unstoppable, that whatever happens and that whoever stands in front. This proposal of law makes historical and restorative justice, repairs the historical aggravation. Things don't happen because yes, I've already explained the historical background to them, and I think you can't forget our history if you don't want to make the same mistakes, those who suffered women who at that time looked at their heads to be independent and Francoism and tardiness prevented it. Ending inequality is a matter of political will and not empty speeches to contain your own. Inequality affects women's private lives, affects their autonomy, freedom and determines their power to make decisions about their lives. Ending inequality is a challenge for socialists and socialists and, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, should also be a collective challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for you, but the road is now underway. Labour reform is a decisive step towards ending job insecurity, wage devaluation and, of course, the precariousness of women and also young people. Also, the adoption of the maternity supplement, which had just passed a year ago, has reduced the pension gap by 5%, has been a decisive step. These are important steps, but we Socialists do not have enough. If we didn't do anything, the gender gap would end in 2104 and, by then, all bald - I don't mess with any bald, it's just the saying -. The Socialists are not prepared to do this, we are not there. Therefore, we consider and defend that the III Strategic Plan for the Effective Equality of Women and Men 2022-2025 is the great opportunity that we have socially given in this Congress to push forward and end a gender gap that plagues us as a society, which makes us more unjust as a society. Spain, with this strategic plan for effective equality, is a flag and benchmark in the European Union. And I will give you a figure - I think you would have to look at the strategic plan, because no one has looked at it, nor Mr Feijóo -: with only four programmes - four programmes - we are talking about 67 % of the total amount of EUR 20 billion; we are talking about 91% of this strategic plan going to end the wage and employment gap. I believe it is a matter of dignity and it is the constituent moment. The pandemic has shown us all that there are many different ways of doing things and facing our weaknesses. The economy has always been a key area in gender equality policies, both in the unfair distribution of jobs and time and resources between men and women, and courageous policies that are capable of introducing transformative economic policies into what we now call a productive economy, which has so far been turning its back on women. But this requires courage and will, a desire for profound transformation at the economic level, at the social level, at the institutional level and, of course, also at the political level. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this proposal for a law, despite being so bitter at times, does not deserve to be voted against or abstained, and I say so from the very bottom of my mind. The challenge is now collective, the challenge is feminist, democratic and reparation, it is the challenge that the Socialist Party has marked itself as a path, as a goal and as a horizon. In his hands he is joining or disbanding the already traveled. We trust that they will correct the course, even though we do not trust it very much. Spain has a determined and unstoppable agenda for real and effective equality between women and men, and that is not going to change. Feminism pushes for equality and greater democratic quality. Investing on an equal footing is ensuring prosperity and ensuring democracy. And I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, we don't expect any more women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This consideration seeks to correct the difference in treatment that the General Law on Social Security maintains between men who performed compulsory military service, popularly known as the militia, and women who provided what was called women's social service, deleted in 1978, as Mrs. Perea recalled, who in much of her intervention was lost to us in the Castile camps without coming much into account. With this law, it is a matter of ensuring that, for the purposes of access to partial retirement and in calculating the time to establish the rights of those concerned, the female social service is given the same effects as the LGSS already provides for those who have completed compulsory military service, as well as for the alternative social benefit in the case of those who have accepted conscientious objection. Ladies and gentlemen, with full agreement on the elimination of all obstacles to equality between men and women, this will be a law which in practice few women will be able to benefit from, because there will be few who by age have not reached retirement; but if they still maintain their employment, I doubt that they will be financially compensated for their retirement. [[The Lord]] The conditions laid down by the Government of Pedro Sánchez following the reform which entered into force on 1 January 2022, with which the Social Communist bench and its various parliamentary support considerably tightened the conditions for access to a public pension, and much harsher, if any, for workers who wish to advance their retirement, even though they may have a long working life including their passage through the militia or the performance of women's social service, are highly dissuasive. In this regard, it should be recalled that the retirement age is already being gradually delayed, which, in my view, is a colossal setback in workers' rights, especially for those with long working lives and for those who have worked and perform very hard-working professions and activities. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group puts us to the best use of its quota of legislative initiatives to present it which reveals that, in the fragrance of the militant bureaucracy of the Minister Escriva to harden the conditions in Law 21/2012, of 28 December, to the Government of the thousand and a omnibus decrees it was proceeded to apply appropriately the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the articulation of the LGSS. Neither in the gynecian manager of the Ministry of Equality did they realize the pifia, I suppose because there this of the female social service will have done none, either by age or perhaps for reasons of pacifist consciousness, that these days they keep very camouflaged in the trunk of the official car. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u43	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u44	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. As we continue to talk about franchising, I will be given a preliminary question. Gentlemen of VOX, crimes against humanity not only do not prescribe, but are recognized by international law. Mr José María Sánchez will be a lawyer, what we are not very clear about is when he will be a lawyer. [[Applauds]] Today the Socialist Party brings us a proposal for a law to recognize the calculation of women's compulsory social service during franchising, and we find it very correct. It's a minimal form, but it's a way of repairing women's forced contribution during franchising. And how patriarchy is like energy, which is transformed, this today will allow us to talk about gender, of the contribution of women's social wealth and of the invisibility of the care economy in Social Security, which should be a mechanism to return workers to their contribution to social wealth, but which, in practice, with the care economy, does not end up being so. I'm going to give two examples. The first, that of the domestic workers. The Government announced in March 2020 the ratification of ILO Convention 189, and we are still waiting for it; but it is urgent. And it is also urgent because there has been a pandemic, and essential and caring jobs have been essential, and they are mostly done by women and mostly by foreign women who are also tied to the yoke of the Organic Aliens Act. Household and care work account for 9% of the world's GDP and 15% of Spanish GDP. It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to recognize and ratify ILO Convention 189. And the second example I wanted to bring is that of reproductive work per se, caring for family members, children, domestic work, etc., which is also mostly the responsibility of women. According to the latest survey of the time employment INE - by the way, I take the opportunity to say that it is data from 2009 and 2010 and that, therefore, it is urgent to carry out time employment surveys more frequently, because that is what explains the difference in the sexual division of labour in our society - which gives us data from 2003 and 2009, women spend an average of four and a half hours a day in domestic and care work and men one and a half hours; and, in 2009, women spend four hours and men an hour fifty. These are the invisible costs of the market. This is what allows people to go to work, what is called the invisible economy of care and reproductive work, which, moreover, does not represent any specific benefit. Institutions are not neutral. In this case, social security and the distribution of benefits follow the patriarchal model and continue to contribute to the invisibility of reproductive and care work. Social Security should be the box of women workers and should return the wealth they bring to society, but it maintains an androcentric vision based on the male model of formal work, of wages in a company, of production of materials, and this - I have already said - makes reproductive work invisible. But it's also a wrong account, because it's counting only production and it leaves half of it essential in the economy. Without the reproduction of life there is no GDP and, therefore, it is urgent not only to count it, but also to count on Social Security, for economic justice, for the principles of the feminist economy and for putting life and people at the centre. To account for reproductive work and to assume the contribution of care work in the economy, because, if not, it contributes to the poverty of women and, in addition, reproduces the sexual division of labour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u45	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u46	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Eskerrik asko. Comparing the calculation of what was the female social service from Francoism to the men's militia may seem a minor issue, because a year ago the Social Security Act was amended to include women who had done this service when calculating early retirement, and what was missing was that it was equal to partial retirement, as is the case with the time of the militia or the replacement social service for men. It was this measure that was missing, which will not affect many, possibly, and I do not know how many women have managed, after the previous legal change, to retire early thanks to the recognition of the time spent in social service. It will certainly be a somewhat complicated issue, because many of them were not given the certificate. But all this does not matter, because welcome is this reform, which is necessary, and which eliminates an aspect of inequality between men and women. Our vote, of course, will be in favour. As I said before, even if it seems so, it is not a minor issue, however limited its scope, because there are no minor issues when it comes to defending equality between women and men, nor are there any minor issues when it comes to undoing all that great Francoist architecture that has been created over decades and that in many situations in this state they continue to live today; it lives with ramifications deeper than those of the desert trees. How many have passed? Forty, sixty, seventy? More than eighty since the establishment of the women's social service for single women between the ages of 17 and 35, for women who wanted access to jobs in the Administration, to a university degree, to take their passport or driver's license. Let me give you some notes on what that social service was like. Pilar Primo de Rivera, sister of José Antonio Primo de Rivera, was the founder and leader of the Women's Section, the head of that social service. He then argued that women had to be feminine and not feminist. In 1942 he wrote texts proclaiming that women never discover anything. They lack - he said - the creative talent, which was reserved by God for male intelligences. He also assumed that he modelled on Isabel the Catholic, who - he said - was able to reconcile her capacities as a woman of good governance, social concern and religious formation with that of a housewife who cares for her husband, her children and her servants; the strong woman of the Gospel - he said -. And the truth is that in historical terms all of this happened not in the Middle Ages, but before yesterday. The provision of women's social service was maintained until 1978. With the sign of the times, it was changing the nature of the courses that had to be fulfilled, and in the end the demands were softening over time. I had to get the chart. I was from the last generations who had to do it. I needed it so I could do the pre-school at the university. And then, unlike in previous years, the basket, a clothing equipment for newborns that had to be sewn and woven in a course of several months, the basket of marras, in short, had become another reflection of the insidious lies in which the Franco regime was mummified. I didn't even do it anymore. I didn't do that course at that time or weave the garments or stitch them together, because at that time the necessary garments could be presented from the basket simply by buying them at the store; I did so, even with the labels of the purchase. So, even though this booklet, sealed with the wedge of the Women's Section of the movement and with its yoke and arrows, certify that I attended the courses for a few months, I didn't actually do it. [[shows a folder]] This happened in the years 1977 and 1978, not before, because women in previous years did have to devote long months of their life to doing this social service. They are the lies of Francoism too, but, in any case, and even though forty-four years have passed since the disappearance of these books, today we are witnessing messages from political forces, some openly, such as VOX's, others perhaps more overlapping, such as the PP's, who pursue the survival of that same political and moral legacy of Francoism. The proclamations that still exist give rise to an air too well known by those who were forced to pass through the Women's Section, those, yes, generations like my mother's, forced to complete, without missing a day, the course destined to make them good women and wives. I am not going to repeat the messages that the president of VOX in Madrid, for example, is launching, that muse of the party against what they call the business of gender ideology, which says that the role of women in society is to give much in exchange for nothing, and I am not going to do it because they don't differ just from those herrings that Pilar Primo de Rivera repeated, like that you don't have to be a girl packed with books or be funny and friendly ants. But let's not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just VOX. Fernández Mañueco has already assumed as his own the discourse of the far right on domestic violence. Feijóo himself has described Castile and Leon's agreement as perfectly legitimate. It is also Isabel Díaz Ayuso who wants to divert for other purposes the aid for maternity leave, paternity leave, children's schools, reconciliation plans or those that encourage the fight against machista violence. If Díaz Ayuso was not from the PP he would be from VOX and but from VOX he would be from the PP, because, since we have here the effigies of Isabel and Fernando, in this case, so much rides, so much rides. Ladies and gentlemen, in rights and freedoms, in all rights and freedoms, not a step backwards, and all those who come forward, even if they may seem second-order, like this one we are dealing with, are necessary and essential. Therefore, they are of first order. I ended up, not without sharing that feeling that has invaded me by recovering from the bottom of the closet this out-of-the-box folder of social service and by uniting it with the herrings, falsehoods and involutions that we hear every day here and in the media: I feel that sometimes I don't know what day it is or what year it is. [[shows a folder]] And it is that still today, ladies and gentlemen, we must combat Francoism. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: And ETA!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u47	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u48	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear friend, Mrs Perea, I confess to you that today you came here with a humorous spirit, because seeing this initiative I thought, as Mrs Aizpurua has just said, that it was a debate not of a minor order, but of a second degree, since we had a previous initiative which had somehow solved the most important part of this conflict, that of gender discrimination in the area of social security benefits. I was going to say that this legislative initiative was something obvious, but it happens that the obvious has been absolutely upset, because, as I said, it came in a playful mood and it has put me very badly hearing the first point of this plenary. In fact, we are faced with a legislative initiative which aims in some way to supplement what I understand to be an anomaly, the fact that certain licences discriminatory on grounds of gender still exist in the legal system today in the field of public benefits and in the field of social security. So it was understood that that was something obvious, something that had to disappear. I was also going to tell him that the highlight of this initiative was precisely that it was led by his political group. I don't think it makes any sense, I'm telling you. The initiative had to have been incorporated into the law through a royal decree-law on the initiative of the Government. I said this and I say it, because, in principle, this initiative, as well as the one that was at the time, the Royal Decree Law 21/2021, are the result of a judgment, in cassation, in unification of doctrine, of the Social Division of the Supreme Court, the judgment 338/2020 of 6 February, which clearly understood that the treatment which conferred certain precepts -207 and 208 - of the General Law on Social Security to permit early retirement also included certain services provided by men in the form of compulsory military service or alternative social service but did not do so in the case of female social service. Obviously, not only because of the transposition of the Community directive referred to in the judgment, but also because of article 14 of the Constitution and simple rules of equity, it seemed that that situation should be corrected, as was the case in the Supreme Court. And he said that was going to be obvious. I repeat the obvious, because I believe that I am seeing too few in this House. And it also said that that solution of the Royal Decree Law 21/2021, which intended to correct that situation with regard to certain precepts, is now being tried again through its legislative initiative, only with regard to another specific aspect, partial retirement. We'll agree on this. I have nothing to say to him. You know that any kind of initiative that avoids gender discrimination will always count on the support of my group. What I wanted to do was criticize, simply, for bringing you and not the government. And not the government for two reasons. One, because it is obvious and because it was a simple technical correction, an anomaly that had to be corrected. But, moreover, because I understand that having done so implies a differentiated procedure, which in some way penalizes its implementation, because now, by having to take it into consideration and then have to be processed through the corresponding legislative procedure, it avoids its immediate implementation, as if it had been approved by a real decree law and had been validated by this Congress. Somehow, it seems he had little logic. But I am glad that he has brought it, because he has put another debate on the table: that of the obvious need to recover certain areas of freedom, that of recovering certain guarantees of rights, that of preventing the replication of times when that was denied too easily, as we have seen today in the first item on the agenda, the denials of freedoms, the denials of rights, discriminatory treatment, absolute discrimination on the grounds of gender, ideology and belief. It's something we can't consent to. Today I have seen in this House remember all that through remembering Francoism, and it has dislocated me. It turns out that what I thought was so obvious, as it is that in this Congress we are in the presence of a Parliament in which the democratic rules conquered on the basis of much effort - before the Francoism, during the Francoism for whom we fought and after the Francoism for whom we wanted to consolidate it - is still put at risk by the speeches and attitudes of many of the people who are even representing others in this Parliament. You know that you will count on my vote in favour. But, really, what hurts me most about this is not your initiative, but the attitude with which I have had to contemplate other items on the agenda, which, really, have left me absolutely out of place. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u49	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The previous spokesman, Mr Barandiaran, has said that he has fallen ill. Indeed, I would like to make you realize that we have been in plenary for two hours talking about the Civil War, Francoism and Communism. What about family problems? We can see that another day we will talk about the real problems of the Spanish families, of the workers, of the self-employed, of the companies, that are closing, with the price of the light fired, with the price of the untouchable fuels, or of the basket of the purchase. I, as a member of this House, must tell you that I am ashamed. And, as I have a minimum of modesty, I will try to talk about the progress of this initiative, without the need to go back and without the need to mention Franco and Franco once. We are debating this proposal for a law, the aim of which is to put an end to the inequality between men and women in access to retirement. Despite several court rulings recognizing this right, the General Social Security Act did not have any effect in its text, while women engaged in female social service for the calculation of pension contributions and, however, in the case of men, military service or replacement social benefit were considered for the purposes of assessed time calculation. It has not been until the last pension reform, approved by this House a few months ago, when compulsory female social service has been collected and recognized as a merit to access early retirement in the same way as years are calculated in compulsory military service or alternative social benefit in the case of men. Well, what we are debating today is the Socialist Group's initiative, which we are debating today, is that this right of women who have spent a few years of their lives in the work of women's social service, such as collaboration in hospitals, assistance in orphanages, in children's dining rooms, in social assistance, in schools or in libraries, is also extended to the purposes of partial retirement, that is, that what has already been approved for early retirement applies to partial retirement in the same terms, that the case-law applied to men applies to women as well. It's that simple, you don't have to go back in time or mention Franco, because if men can compute compulsory military service for partial retirement, women can also do it with compulsory female service. Since it cannot be otherwise, Citizens will vote in favour of this initiative because it is common sense, but above all because it is fair to put an end to an incomprehensible situation of gender inequality in the 21st century. We can say that this is an almost technical correction to give coherence to the General Law on Social Security, but it is a correction that has an important political background, because behind this proposed law with a single article and two paragraphs is the laudable objective of building a society where men and women are treated equally, with the same rights and obligations. Liberalism is a radically egalitarian political philosophy. All individuals, regardless of race, ethnicity, sex or religion, have exactly the same rights regardless of their place of birth, place of residence or personal status. And even if they don't believe it, the defense of equality is not exclusive to the left. The left only defends ideological and exclusive equality; the liberals fight against any inequality of an arbitrary nature that prevents the development of a life plan according to the merit of the capacity of the people or that prevents the exercise of rights on equal terms. That's why we fight against the discrimination of Spanish speakers in Catalonia, that's why we fight against nationalist privileges, that's why we fight for LGBTI people who have the right and the desire to form a family, that's why we fight for the equality of all individuals, trying to close that gap between men and women today from the wake of liberal feminism that pushed Mary Wollstonecraft, Betty Friedan and Clara Campoamor, a feminism supported by facts and not in words, a feminism of achievements and not of banners. Liberals will always push and support measures that seek to improve women's lives and end situations of inequality such as the one we are debating today. In short, useful policy against empty slogans. It is true that in recent years efforts have been made to address the gender gap, especially in the area of social foresight, by adapting various positive action measures aimed at achieving that real equality. Recently, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, this gap between men and women was closed a little, by matching compulsory female service with military service or alternative social benefit for the purposes of calculating years in early retirement. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are helping to close something more, extending this right to partial retirement. We must continue to work to ensure that this gap soon does not exist. As I promised you, I have 22 seconds left and I have not needed to mention either Franco or the Civil War. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u51	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The women's social service, to which many women were obliged, will not count as paid time, as did military service time or PSS for early and partial. Several judgements have already recognized equalization, but there is still a need to argue on a case-by-case basis in order to claim its application. Finally, the recent pension reform included it, but limited to the case of early retirements. The question is: Why has what is now proposed not already been included, including its application to partial retirements? In any case, when it comes to extending rights, it is better late than never. Even, it was possible and should go further with a proposal that would comply with the old demand to recognize that time of social benefit for men and women as a contribution for all purposes. Why not include it in the calculation of ordinary retirement? Why a maximum of one year instead of calculating the full benefit time? Why is it not useful to improve the reduction coefficient in the case of early retirement or to improve the stage? It should be recalled that in 2011 the PSOE Government announced a reform to provide for general compensation for the interruption of contributory careers caused by such compulsory benefits, but that commitment has been forgotten. The BNG will support the consideration, but we have already announced amendments to extend their scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of this bill, of course we will vote in favour!, but the question is not that, the question is: Why hasn't it been done yet? Why can men born between 1955 and 1983 count, if we want, the military service time for our calculation of the partial retirement pension and women cannot do so? Well, one point, not all men. Santiago Abascal can't do it, because he didn't do the militia; he's been asking for seven years of extensions not to do the militia and, therefore, he can't benefit from this. [[Applauds]] Let's remind the younger ones what women's social service was. It was done by women between the ages of 17 and 35 who were single in order to gain access to paid work or to an academic or official degree, but also in order to obtain a driver's license or passport. It was organized by the Spanish Feminine Section of Falange and was compulsory from 1937 to 1978. I am making this historic review because some party in this House is sure to miss those times. What times! Hey, gentlemen of VOX? Of course, we will vote in favour, even if it benefits only one woman, but, frankly, I believe that, if this anomaly had been detected, there were faster methods than a bill to remedy it; for example, in one of the many royal decrees of tailor's box that we have adopted in this House and in previous legislatures.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u55	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do you see how we must still work on gender discrimination and gender equality? Take note and vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u57	Thank you. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u58	Thank you, President. This bill seeks to grant female social service the same rights that were granted to compulsory military service or male replacement social service. As in the case of men, it allows to add up the time spent up to a maximum of one year to reach the thirty-five years assessed required, but only in cases of voluntary early retirement or for reasons not attributable to the worker. The recognition of women's social service comes decades later. In many cases it is going to be a posthumous recognition, since the vast majority of the arrows - so called Francoism - are no longer among us or have retired for many years. Make numbers. If that militia for ladies could be made from the age of seventeen, as has been recalled a moment ago, and the last promotion was in 1977, forty-five years ago, those last women protected by Francoism are at least sixty-two years old. There is little room for them to request early retirement. Moreover, when justice is late, it ceases to be fair; in this case it is twice as late, because more than two years ago the Supreme Court recognized women as having the right to account for their social service time. So the bill has more feminist than effective, but if it gets to one it gets to all of us. We want to make it, therefore, an opportunity that we must face together for the tribute to those women who lived under guardianship and emotional indoctrination, under the yoke and arrows of Francoism, without autonomy, without independence and in many cases being forced to marry to have someone to ask for permission. The franchise copied Hitler's youth organization to the point that the Green Paper of the Feminine Section of the Falange had the SS Social Service logos highlighted on the right side. The Asun and suffered an aphony that occurred every time they forced him to sing the Face to the sun or other successes of the moment. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] The Chon goes to the maternity ward of Barcelona, taking care of babies, so that she can have the chart and take out her driver's license or travel abroad. Others made baskets, candies, and baby clothes for months so they could take the test. To those who did Baccalaureate they validated that part of the Formation of the National Spirit, such as Conception or the Rose. Some disobeyed and refused to participate in indoctrination, such as Ana Maria and Lali. All of them, all of them, perfectly remember the cooking, cutting and making courses or the classes of submission, self-denial and beatification. By the way, all without exception also claim another equally feminist but more effective cause: to change the law so that access to the non-contributory pension in the case of housewives is not so restricted, because they claim that you need to be on poverty lines in order to have access to a mini-pension. Many mothers stopped working on wages and were caring for husbands and children for many years. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] They are now granted a non-contributory mini pension of between 100 and 402 euros, and claim that at least 490 euros of the minimum living income be reached in the pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u59	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos-Galicia in Communo, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u60	Thank you, President. This law culminates in the equalization of the so-called social service of the Franchise Women's Section, whereby women were educated as submissive, docile, consenting, caring and silent women. They are equal to Social Security benefits for men who went through military service. One part, the one concerning early retirement and the replacement social benefit, was already done in 2021, but there was still early retirement. For all these women, it is fair to remember that the social service was active from 1937 to 1978 for single women, as my colleagues have said, at the age of seventeen to thirty-five years, so this law today is rather a symbolic law, since the youngest women who joined the social service are today sixty-two years old and many of them are already retired, either have a widow's pension, or, unfortunately, have died without this equality. We arrived very late, because the time to equate the social service of women with the military service of men should have been that of the Transition, thus curing the enormous wounds that fascism had done to women. The women's social service was born in the Feminine Section of the Spanish Falange, which was that branch of the dictator Franco's party whose aim was to entice women into a role of submission as a mother, wife, dedicated to the care of the home. So much so that in schools women had to study three fundamental subjects: sewing, cooking and the domestic economy. As used to be said in the Franco regime, the child will look at the world and the child will look at the home. The Women's Section had such strong ties with Nazi Germany and the Italian fascists that two women's section hierarchs, Clara Stauffer and Carmen Werner Bolín, were German. This style, in which Olona and Ayuso are so inspired, we can situate it between a female phalangist section afternoon and Aunt Lydia of The maid's tale. Yes, Olona, the leader of VOX, the far-right party that looks so much like the Falange de Franco and the ultra-right Putin, who has just entered the government of Castile and León by agreeing with the People's Party in exchange for eliminating laws against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] And, yes, Ayuso, the leader of the People's Party, who says the most important thing about the family, but who only says it to enrich her brother with the money of the Madrid masks, because for the rest of the population she wants to eliminate the 20,319 million euros that the Ministry of Equality allocates to paternity and maternity permits, schools from 0 to 3 years, widow's pensions and dependency. That's the People's Party and Vox. Until 1977, women were not able to opt for employment, they could not opt for political responsibilities, they could not have access to a professional title or an association, they could not take their passport or even the driving licence, unless they would go through the training of the social service of the Falange. This means that if you were a woman you had to go through a double permit: that of the men of your family and that of the Falange and its Franco dictatorship. The aim was, as stated in Decree 378 of 7 October 1937 - which I read literally - to apply female skills to alleviate the pains caused by the present struggle and the social distresses of the post-war period, while using the capacity of women to affirm the new climate of brotherhood. All this, of course, with the inescapable generosity and spirit of sacrifice of women. They served to support the political militancy of fascist men and also to work for care, for example, in residences or in baby care, but also for technical, mechanical and administrative responsibilities of the development of the social institutions of the Jons, that is, also to take care of the growth of fascism. Women who had physical defects or diseases were not considered fit. Why? Because they wanted beautiful women, young women, single women, lozanas, healthy and without experience and, of course, so that those women from Francoist families who had already taken up these public jobs would not be disturbed. That was the Spanish woman who wanted to mold herself into Francoism. Today we women continue to struggle for economic recognition of care and for the eradication of sexist stereotypes and prejudices about the feminine attitudes that have been given to us by nature. [[Rumors]] I see that the ladies and gentlemen of VOX are very upset about this subject. It is true that, unfortunately, today there continue to be groups by sleepless phalangists - like the ladies of VOX who are so upset with my speech - in this House; parliamentarians who dream of returning to the past... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u61	One moment, Your Honor, one moment. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] Let me order, as far as I can, the debate, please. Mr Robles, Mr Sánchez del Real, we will continue the debate. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: I didn't say anything]] I've spoken to him before and now to you. I ask the three of us to let the debate continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u62	The Francoist longings. Parliamentarians, as I said, dream of returning to the past and forcing women to be good women, because they understand that it is our duty and that it is our nature, under the penalty of social isolation. But it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a huge feminist movement on the streets, of millions of women who, like this March 8th, would shout at their fascist idols, such as José Antonio Primo de Rivera: Antoñito, Antoñito, the croquettes yourself. [[Applauds]] Another thing that has been lost by the Lordships of the Right is equality. Equal treatment and non-discrimination are a fundamental right that our Spanish Constitution confers, and it is that fundamental right that allows you, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, to sit in your seats despite your retrograde ideas. That is why - and I conclude - we will support this proposal for a law, because it is a measure that redresses the discrimination of women who were forced to perform this service, but who have for many years - too many years - forgotten equal access to their economic rights in relation to pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. We will vote in favour of taking this bill into account, so that the time of social service that a woman will perform in her day to compute the years assessed for the purposes of partial retirement, simply because it is of justice, although we do not agree with the amount of stupidity that we have had to hear this afternoon. [[Applauds]] They have insulted, ladies and gentlemen, they have insulted many women, many women who worked whether or not they agreed with that moment that was lived in our country. They've insulted a lot of women who did a service to their country. I am not going to go in if I agree or disagree with the Franco administration, what happens is that you seem to have brought this initiative in the pure evening and simply to mess with an administration and, moreover, to provoke a party like VOX, but we are not going to get into your provocations. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it should also be counted as a contribution to social security for the time that mothers or parents stayed - or stayed - to take care of their children, but not because they considered it to be a heavy burden or burden, but on the contrary because they considered the great social value that this represents, and it should be possible to do so if the money of the Spaniards were not embezzled in derision, as this government does. [[Applauds]] It is contradictory and hypocritical to say that they avoid the negative gender impact, according to his lexicon, when they have just decreased, through the Royal Decree Law 3/2021, the maternity supplement in the retirement pension for mothers with large families. [[Applauds]] In other words, they lower their pension, penalize mothers who have had four or more children in particular, to whom they have contributed most to society, to whom they have been more heroic in a country where having a child has become heroic. [[Mrs Perea i Conillas shows a poster in which you can read, among other things: 'III Strategic Plan 20319 mill. ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] This is his progressive feminism. We will table amendments to correct this injustice in the bill that is currently being dealt with. By the way, while, in Hungary, women who have had four or more children, apart from other benefits, are exempt from income tax, because they estimate that they have contributed enough to society to pay taxes. Yes, it is that country, in which families are so much helped, which has risen its birth rate by 24% in very few years; that country which, in addition, now presides over a woman, precisely that which was dedicated to family policies; that country to which you and your friends in the European Union demonise, to which all consensus progresses demonizes because it is not submissive to its agenda for the destruction of women and therefore for the destruction of the family. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, what seems rather to be the fact that this motion for a law is now forced by 8 March, perhaps to conceal the true horror that has occurred on our streets or perhaps to disguise the division of a movement that has already degenerated in such a way that we are ashamed to share the status of woman with those who say they represent us and appear in a zafia, vulgar, even obscene, violent, aggressive way, with flags of the sickle and the hammer, with a staging that reminds us of other times. [[Applauds]] They want to forget past times, rewrite history and, however, evoke those who, inspired by a perverse ideology, such as the communist, have caused dramatic effects in our country and whose consequences are now being lived in Europe. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, 25 million women did not attend that demonstration. Many of us are tired of these sophistications of hatred against man and of being treated as victims. A second thought. Our pension system is broken and, fundamentally, it is due to demographic suicide. We have lost 1.1 million native Spaniards in the last ten years, and it is a great fault for this that the current perverse feminism, which has caused great social damage and is causing great personal and family damage; a feminism that does not take into account an important part of the female specificity, such as motherhood; that it has wanted to free itself wrongly from its own nature, following the old slogans already, ladies and gentlemen, old-fashioned of Simone de Beauvoir that sex and motherhood enslave it. Women have never been as slave as they are today: the absolute impossibility of having the children they want, the risk of losing their jobs if you become pregnant, companies that offer the freezing of eggs because they cannot dispense with work at the most productive age, abortion as a solution you have problems to have your child, the barbarity of the rental belly, the increase of trafficking for sexual exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, women have shown that in their professional development they have at least the same capacity as men, but, ladies and gentlemen, unaided conciliation is still the pending subject, and many women have left many important things on the way. Only in view of the equal value of women and the absolute differences with men can justice be done. The woman would have to be a partner of the man in absolute equality of value and in the absolute difference of being in a culture that denies the value of difference, according to Mariolina Ceriotti. Finally, let us reflect on the sustainability of the pension system. In the face of a broken pension system, the only solution for you is immigration and euthanasia. One of the pillars in a distribution system is, without a doubt, birth. Protection of the family and encouragement of the birth of children should be a priority. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 21 300 million could be devoted to many urgent needs, including supporting the family, but this government, which brings us misery and ruin, decides that it is the gender perspective that must consume EUR 21 300 million; EUR 21 300 million to combat hegemonic masculinities. How are they going to explain to the Spaniards that now, with the spectacular rise of gasoline, half of what they pay is tax? How are they going to explain that EUR 21 300 million, which is what is collected in two years by the gas tax, is earmarked for gender policies? How do they explain to the Spaniards that the rise of light and gas makes them poorer and the state richer, because it collects more with the rise of those taxes?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u65	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u66	I'm done, Mr. President. Banking always wins, doesn't it? That could be said to those who like games, but this is not a game, ladies and gentlemen; this is an intolerable offense. And I finish, Mr. President, by saying...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u67	Yes, but finish it at once, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government's political group, this bill is about justice and we will support it, but it is not going to hide its inaction in the face of a broken pension system, it is not going to hide its offenses and its contempt for all the Spaniards...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u69	Your Honor, finish, please. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u70	It's over now. ...especially the women themselves, and you're not going to avoid...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u71	Your Honor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u72	... the Spaniards go out on the 19th of March. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u74	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you are late, very late. Indeed, we are debating a situation of flagrant inequality, which has suffered Adela, but which has also suffered many other women, but so far, Miss Perea, you were looking elsewhere. You live in a kind of bubble where you see things from outside otherwise, you don't see things like the rest of the population. They do it with everything, also with the bill of light, gas or the price of gasoline. Explain to the Spaniards how much the government is going to collect through taxes with a petrol at 2 euros per litre. There are dozens of problems that are complicating everyone's lives, while the Government is thinking about other things. After the initiatives that this parliamentary group put forward in 2018 and 2020, after the Ombudsman asked for action in 2019, after numerous rulings and jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, you finally bring this bill. We almost have to thank them for joining the political forces we have been demanding for years the recognition of women's social service in a computable period for retirement. He said Montesquieu, in which some of us here no longer believe, if they have ever believed, that injustice done to one is a threat to all. Ladies and gentlemen, the gender gap in wages and therefore in pensions is a reality and we must continue to work to end it from political and social unity. This is a small step to go in that direction. Fighting for equality has been and continues to be the priority of the People's Party and in the area of pensions there have been historical inequalities that should have been resolved already, inequalities, by the way, which are at their highest historical level with this Government. You, ladies and gentlemen of the left, who presume to be the most egalitarian, are in fact the least equitable. Last year women contributed only 41% when they represent 51% of the workforce. If women's labour participation were equal to men, Spanish GDP would rise by 10 percentage points. The parity in Spain has fallen in the last year by more than one point and the gender gap has increased. With the current Government, the risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased for all, but it has done much more for women, and we cannot accept it, nor can we remain impassable in the face of the wage gap, stereotypes, lack of co-responsibility and the scourge of gender-based violence. Spain is the second most unemployed country in the European Union. We have a rate of 14.7%, only exceeded by Greece. We double the EU average, which is 6.6%. What a coincidence that when the left is in the government, who is doing well is only to the left, not even the collectives they claim to be defending. Believe me, with the current data, many of us do not understand the euphoria of this government and the desire to waste public money. Forget the adolescent measures proposed by Minister Montero and focus on a peaceful and equal coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago the rankings of equality placed Spain as a fifth country in terms of the welfare of women; today we have fallen too far behind. That is why I want to make it clear that we must all make a real effort to seek consensus, in this Chamber and in society as a whole, and to leave behind possible partisan discrepancies. Ladies and gentlemen, this year our young man, but a well-established democracy, will be 44 years old. Throughout this time we have built a developed and modern country, but we will not go forward celebrating successes, but overcoming adversities. The People's Party has always believed in equality and quality employment as the best tool to end inequality and discrimination. We have always believed in the mechanisms of the welfare state as transformative levers to promote equal opportunities; we have always rebuilt what the Socialist Party has destroyed. During the governments of the People's Party we achieved the record that eight and a half million women contribute to social security, we reduced the wage gap by 5 points and increased the pensions of women who had interrupted their working lives by caring for their children. That's the way we have to go. Of course, we will vote in favour, because we must show that Spanish policy is mature enough to turn an old failure into an opportunity for all. It is a mistake that has taken too long to correct and whose solution comes today; late, but justice comes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u75	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u76	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, concerning the implementation of an economic recovery plan in La Palma. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the volcanic eruption that started on the island of La Palma on 19 September 2021 led to the properties of thousands of palm trees, their businesses and farms. It was a hard blow for the economic sectors of which La Palma lives: agriculture, livestock, fishing and tourism. The largest industrial area in the Aridan Valley was destroyed. For months, businesses in the affected area and throughout the island suffered the consequences of the lack of consumers, both tourists and locals, and in many cases the very destruction of the business. With regard to agriculture, the latest data reveal that the affected hectares exceed 370 hectares, mainly of bananas, with more than 223 hectares, vineyards with about 68 hectares, and avocado, with more than 27 hectares. In addition, many protease and indoor consumption crops are also damaged. The affected agricultural area is the most profitable on the island and one of the most profitable in the Canary Islands. Many livestock farms have completely disappeared. Two dozen herdsmen and herdsmen had to evacuate their animals as they could and now want to recover their economic activity as soon as possible. All farmers in this country are at risk for increased costs. On the island of La Palma the situation is already unabated for them. Aid to the palm agricultural sector has begun to arrive. First, POSEI funds and income loss aid did so, but they are absolutely insufficient. To give an idea, during the visit of the Commissioner for Agriculture, the amount needed to recover the crop infrastructure in the affected area was calculated at more than EUR 110 million. The Ministry of Agriculture has allocated 20 million, it is clear that it is absolutely insufficient. Aid to the fisheries sector has also been coming, but a recovery plan for this subsector is needed to give stability to fishermen in the medium and long term. All this must be combined with the destruction of much of the tourism economy. The La Palma Renace Plan has been launched, which envisages a bonus to recover tourists, promotional campaigns and a line of support for connectivity, but no amount has been foreseen for the recovery of the lost accommodation, which is more than six hundred, according to the area of tourism of the lobby. To the destroyed tourist squares, the 4,000 currently unused must be added; among them, those located in Puerto de Naos, the main tourist center affected by the emission of gases, without knowing when that situation will end. Considering that the total number of beds in La Palma is around 14,000, the paralysis of more than a third of the island's beds is inconsumable for the local economy. As far as industry is concerned, the disappearance of the industrial area of Callejón de la Gata in the Aridan Valley has been a severe blow to the area. On a non-capital island, such as La Palma, industry is already having serious difficulties in moving forward, due to the small scale of population and the high transport costs, which are now being burdened by the price of oil and war. The planning and implementation of a similar industrial zone, with the urbanization affected by light and water and telecommunications services, is estimated to take about ten years. Trade in the area has had a huge impact, not only because of the loss of business, covered by lava, but also because of the lack of access. Economic paralysis continues in the exclusion zones, which still prohibit access by gas detection on the coast. The businesses of the whole island suffer enormous difficulties. They have passed the pandemic, then the volcano and now they encounter the lack of tourists and the economic problems of the local population. The condition is, therefore, enormous and reaches all economic sectors, not only of the municipalities El Paso, Los Llanos and Tazacorte. The repercussions on such a small island extend to the entire island economy, an economy supported by almost 95 % in autonomous and micro-symes, which make up the vast majority of the productive fabric. Above all, what we propose through this non-legislative proposal is urgent. We call for measures to enable the economy of La Palma to recover, because we do not want the episodes of mass emigration that the island has experienced historically after the volcanic eruptions to be repeated. In Coalition Canaria we urge and demand the Government of Spain to set up, together with the island and autonomous institutions, a programme of economic recovery in La Palma that includes: first, in-depth lost aid to cover the current and future needs of the companies until the economic recovery is complete; second, preferential loans to face infrastructure costs necessary both to recover the activity and to convert the companies in cases where it is impossible to continue the activity as such, and third, the inclusion of palm companies as preferred in all the business or economic support actions that are being launched by the Government of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard about La Palma and the palm trees in this Congress every time I have had the opportunity, and I will continue to speak, to demand, to fight here for each and every one of them. The Government of Spain, in an act attended by the kings, paid tribute to the Palm people for the way in which they faced a catastrophe whose dimensions are still being assessed. The Canarian people are proud of this island, which grew up in the face of the tragedy and which gave us all an example of solidarity and mutual support, but the palm trees and palm trees, who sincerely thank the tributes, also want certainty. When some authority outside the Canary Islands visits La Palma, the palm trees shout: Don't forget us! And from here I will continue to shout with them so that they will not forget, so that all the promises made to them, while the image of the volcano copied all the media, are fulfilled, so that the Government of Spain, which committed to them, fulfills and, above all, to send today to all the palm trees a message of political unity that in the end we will strengthen and we will continue to implement all those measures that La Palma needs. Have things arrived? Yeah. Is that enough? No, no, That is why I am asking you today to have a message here from all the political forces that we are not going to forget about La Palma and it is going to be a political priority for this country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u78	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u79	Good afternoon. First of all, and given the subject before us, I would like to send a solidarity hug to those and the palm trees who have been suffering for months as a result of the eruption of the volcano, and I would also like to respectfully greet each of the Canary Islands ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and to remind them that we are not 350 Members of Parliament in this Chamber, nor my parliamentary group are 35, but 34 Members, because we lack the seat of my colleague Alberto Rodríguez, whom I sincerely and proudly send to him from here. [[Applauds]] The eruption of the volcano on the island of La Palma last September has been a great blow for the population, for their lives, their health, their crops, their businesses. The palm economy, which relies substantially on agriculture and tourism, has been deeply affected. Before I refer to the Government's action, I would like to highlight social, neighbourhood and community solidarity networks. Once again, it is clear that it is the people who save the people and that example in the process, that we must follow in the institutions. Anonymous aids from the proximity, and not only that, gestures of absolute coherence, such as that of the young writer, Andrea Abreu, who awarded the Dulce Chacón Prize for her first novel "Panza de asura", to the damaged and damaged by the volcano. The Government has launched a wide range of measures to facilitate the reconstruction and economic recovery of the island in recent months. I will give some examples that your ladies and gentlemen know well. The Royal Decree 820/2021 of 28 September approved the direct grant to the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands of a grant to finance the purchase of housing -€5.5 million for the acquisition of 107 housing units - and basic necessities -€5 million - for families affected by the volcanic eruption in the area of Rajada Mountain. This royal decree also contains extraordinary measures in the field of contribution and protection for unemployment, and also provides for measures specifically directed at self-employed workers, because the eruption of the volcano has stopped their professional activity; in fact, they were extended at last week's plenary session. On the other hand, Royal Decree-Law 20/2021 of 5 October was adopted, which provides for urgent support measures for the reparation of damage caused by volcanic eruptions and for the economic and social reconstruction of the island of La Palma. With this royal decree more than 213 million euros are mobilized through subsidies and direct aid, with various actions to support and boost the economic, labor and social reconstruction of the island. In addition, a real decree was subsequently adopted with a direct subsidy to the autonomous community, this time of 17.5 million euros, for both the tourism sector and support for SMEs. Measures have also been adopted that have continued the whole package of social protection and economic activity in the Canary Islands. Measures to support financing and to cover risk in loans to the private sector have also been deployed and, within the framework of the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan, component 14 contains tourism resilience strategies for extra-penisular territories, with investments for the Canary Islands of EUR 100 million, spread over the years 2021 to 2023. And two more data, between the Ministry of Social Rights of the Central Government and the Council of Social Rights of the Canarian Government, have been allocated 5.5 million for social policies in the three affected municipalities, which have allowed the maintenance and expansion of multidisciplinary teams. And, given the increase in calls, resources were made available under a specific heading of the Ministry of Equality for women victims of sexist violence and for their children. So, in line with the above and in response to the question also answered by the proposer, have aid arrived? Yeah. Is that enough? No, no, Do we have to keep them? Of course. We have to continue and that is why we have jointly tabled a United We can and the Socialist Parliamentary Group amendment in which we recognize the priority of the economic recovery of La Palma, urging the Government to maintain and increase its efforts, because we know that the process is slow, and that is painful and difficult for the palm population. Support for the hit sectors, such as tourism, agri-food, fishing and also cultural, must be maintained and continued as long as necessary. And we appreciate these initiatives being brought in, because it helps us to continue with our attention and not to forget that which ceases to appear in the media incessantly as if it stopped happening and as if it stopped hurting us. I have finished and I make mine the reflections of a fellow canary who says that on the dead lava will continue to grow, because it is what has always been done, because it is the essence of that land made up of volcanoes. And something that, moreover, I think that in dark times we should never lose sight of, what are now scars in the future will be memory and identity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u80	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Oramas, today we are debating your non-law proposal, registered on 24 February, concerning the volcanic eruption on the island of La Palma, which began on 19 September 2021 and which was declared to be completed on 25 December almost four months ago. Mrs Oramas, it's better late than never, but time in these kinds of natural disasters is key. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we recorded a non-law proposal on September 21, 2021, that is, two days after the volcanic eruption began. As for the timing of your initiative, Mrs Oramas, but as far as the substance is concerned, it is on a single page of the Official Gazette of the Courts-General, and I would like to read briefly: 'The Congress of Deputies urges the Government of Spain to launch a programme of economic recovery in La Palma which includes: in-depth aid lost to cover the current and future needs of companies until the economic recovery is complete; preferential loans to cover infrastructure costs necessary to recover the activity or to convert the companies, in cases where it is impossible to continue the activity as proposed, and finally to include palm companies as preferential in all the business or economic support activities that are being launched by the Government of Spain'. Our initiative, registered only two days later, is eight times more extensive and urges the Government to fulfil its obligation, which is to put all means at its disposal to help the affected immediately and to take as many actions as necessary to offer certainty and hope to the future of the palm trees. [[Applauds]] We are talking about the necessary declaration of the area affected by a civil protection emergency, the urgent adoption of a package of exceptional measures, the urgent processing of administrative files relating to the measures agreed as a result of the declaration of the area seriously affected, the immediate setting up of the coordinating committee - which unfortunately was not set up until a month later - the assessment of the damage with all the necessary information and the request for aid from the European Union Solidarity Fund. On this last point, as in many others, the opacity of this Government motivated the question of Mr Buxade Villalba, MEP for VOX, on 3 February, to know whether the Government of Spain had sent to the European Commission the damage assessment required for the activation of the aid and its amount if so, and whether the Government of Spain had requested an advance in order to be able to provide aid to those affected as soon as possible. I insist that in catastrophic situations like the one we occupy time is key. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, time is key and palm trees need action. [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas, we have recorded an amendment with three aspects: firstly, it is a question of establishing the immediate nature of the measure in question; secondly, our amendment covers the various forms of business activity, which your initiative involves, in the end, companies, seeking to avoid unfair exclusions in the processing of aid, and finally, we eliminate the discrimination that the classification of 'palmera' might entail to businesses - self-employed and entrepreneurs - who are domiciled outside the island of La Palma and who have also been affected and deserve such aid. I trust, Mrs Oramas, that you will accept our amendments. Finally, Mrs Oramas, I am obliged to show you my doubts and concerns about the position of your party, the Canary Coalition, with regard to the management of the disaster. You, Mrs Oramas, with very good judgment did not support the investiture of a social-communist government which presupposed the arrival of communists to the Government of Spain; also the consummation of electoral fraud by the betrayal and lies of candidate Sánchez about the partners of government. Although you acted with good judgment not supporting the investiture, the truth is that your party had given you another indication and that is why you received disciplinary consequences. With this background, Mrs Oramas, although I congratulate you on your common sense, I find myself under an obligation to demonstrate that the Canary Coalition is an ideologically drifting party. For the Spaniards - and I conclude, Mr President - who are willing to work in freedom, both in Madrid and in the Canary Islands, only VOX is left. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u82	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Ledesma Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Before we start, a small letter. Madam United Spokesperson We can, not Palma, it's La Palma, that's the name of the island. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree that if we want to comply with La Palma, if there really is a will for a real tribute to the people of Palma we need as soon as possible a programme of economic and social recovery for this island as broad, collective and consensual as possible, because, by collecting the glove of the words spoken by King Don Felipe last Saturday in the act of recognition to the citizens of La Palma, the present and future of the island worries us all. I am therefore sorry to have to say that until this minute we have not received any calls or had any contact from the representative of the group making the initiative for debate. It would seem to Mrs Oramas that she cares very little about the support of the main opposition party and, rather, nothing about the analysis and consideration of our amendments, but I would like to stress that they only seek to give answers, solutions and certainty to the demands of the residents and small entrepreneurs of Los Llanos, El Paso or Tazacorte, among other affected municipalities, of the owners of some plantations, of the modest traders, of the fishing professionals or of the sacrificed owners of a hotel or rural tourism establishment, because we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the productive fabric of La Palma is mostly made up of self-employed and micro-syms, who do not have the same financial capacity as the larger companies. For this reason, I insist, we are somewhat incomprehensible to the attitude of Mrs Oramas, who seems to be only interested in obtaining the vote of the groups supporting the Government in order to be able to guarantee the approval of the initiative and, as usual, then to stand as the only savior of the girl country. For, although you have ignored us, I would like to tell you that we are going to put the other cheek today and, fundamentally on account of responsibility to palm society, we will support the initiative under discussion. However, by going into a brief analysis of the points addressed in this GNP, I would like to point out here that, with regard to the first point of the small sum, the Group of the European People's Party, as early as October 2021, through the formulation of a GNP, which is also subscribed by all my Canarian colleagues, we urge the Government of Spain to urgently articulate direct aid to alleviate the losses in operating income of business activities equivalent to at least 75% of the revenue from the activity for the last quarter of 2020, in order to compensate, I am saying, for the loss of activity before it was too late. In relation to the second point, in the same initiative we presented last October we also requested soft loans, ICO, for the rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of professional, commercial and industrial properties, as well as agricultural and livestock farms and fishing activities, with a repayment period of at least ten years and endorsed by the State. On the other hand, in agreement with the approach set out in the third paragraph of this GNP, we believe that it could also be supplemented by point 4 of our amendment, where we demand that the Spanish Government should encourage, in view of the serious problems caused by the volcanic disaster, the adoption of as many measures and modifications as may be necessary in the field of public procurement legislation, in order to facilitate that all the actions resulting from the eruption can be contracted and carried out under the emergency treatment regime in order to accelerate and speed up the economic recovery in La Palma. In another order, we also ask in our amendment that it be included in the economic recovery programme, which we are talking about an extraordinary plan for the replacement of infrastructure and housing for La Palma, with a budget allocation of EUR 1 billion on a multiannual basis, to serve as a tool and revulsive reactivation in order to be able to intensify the generation of economic activity and short-term employment on the island. And finally, the approval and the establishment of a temporary bonus in air tickets similar to that of the Canarian residents for a period of one year, as a tool to stimulate the revival of tourist businesses in the palm destination, with a much more complex geopolitical context being an ultra-peripheral territory, more vulnerable and with absolute dependence on air transport.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u84	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u85	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u86	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u87	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. To begin with, I would like to thank Mrs Ana Oramas for her concern and her willingness to cooperate with the actions being undertaken by this Government for the socio-economic recovery of the island of La Palma. We are confident that through the amendment we have tabled we will be able to reach a unity agreement that will benefit palm trees and palm trees, adding to the example given by the governments of different political signs involved in aiding the island during the volcanic eruption, and now during its reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, the President of the Government has travelled to La Palma on several occasions to learn firsthand about what has been happening on the island since the beginning of the eruption process. He did so immediately to transfer the support and solidarity of his Government, accompanying and helping with resources and investment at times that are extremely difficult for the population. In the eighty-five days when lava castings, gases and ashes left their trail of destruction and tragedy, the president moved eight times to La Palma to hold meetings with the people and groups concerned, to listen to those who lost their homes, their jobs and saw their routine broken and their lives forever altered. Sánchez prioritized in his agenda and in his government action the granting of urgent aid to try to alleviate the economic and social disaster caused by the eruption, the longest of those lived in La Palma, the most destructive of the last century in Europe. Until last week, the amount of aid earmarked for and provided for the economic recovery of La Palma amounted to EUR 314 million, of which EUR 314 million was earmarked specifically for enterprises, self-employed persons and economic sectors, with a particular impact on the banana sector, a figure which will continue to rise as the lines of financing are processed: social emergency and employment, housing and housing, road infrastructure and desalination. From direct contact with local governments, productive sectors and economic and social groups, the road map has been drawn to meet the population and its needs, leaving no one behind. We are all aware that on 13 December the crisis did not end, only volcanic activity. On 13 December another phase began, also full of uncertainty and concern for the future, so let's not forget about La Palma. We have not forgotten; reconstruction continues and the Government's presence shows its support and solidarity, too. [[Applauds]] This past weekend the Conference of Presidents was held in La Palma, as Pedro Sánchez committed himself, thus showing the support of all communities with the palm society after the eruption in Cumbre Vieja. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that, in an exemplary way, the political forces have stalled their differences, made a stop in their partisan interests and united themselves in the right direction, in the only direction, which is that of solidarity, empathy and support for a resilience that is more than ever necessary. Which, unfortunately, we did not see in the pandemic, where political gain got ahead. What we have not seen on so many other occasions of enormous importance for this country we applaud in La Palma, a management of the crisis shared in a responsible, committed and honest way by the progressive government of Spain, by the government of progress of the Canary Islands and by the island government of La Palma, with a president of the People's Party supported by the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] I sincerely hope that, at this new stage in the People's Party, the capacity to adopt state agreements, such as the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, will come to an end and that the destructive criticism they make of their country in Europe will cease. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I must tell you that, despite the words here today of your spokesman, at that time you showed your true face, that of frentism and blind opposition, and disheartening the cries of help from La Palma, taking away the look of the houses buried in ash, the schools destroyed, the villages disappeared, the agricultural installations inoperative, abstained in the vote on the decree of reconstruction of the island.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u88	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u89	Mrs Oramas, as I said at the outset, I hope that we can reach an agreement that will be one more chapter of this good political agreement, which has benefited and will benefit the island of La Palma. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u90	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u91	President, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken three hours of plenary to move on to the Civil War, to Francoism and to talk about real and current things. The initiative now before us seeks to alleviate the devastating effects of the explosion of the Old Summit volcano in La Palma on 19 September. Since then, we have attended several debates in this House in this line, where we have always been committed to providing the necessary help to the inhabitants of La Palma so that they could overcome the terrible consequences of the eruption. Today, Mrs Oramas, we will also support this non-law proposal. We understand that it is necessary to add to the measures already implemented those detailed here in order to launch an economic recovery programme in La Palma, because the situation on the island is a huge tragedy for hundreds of families and businesses. We have, I believe, access to data. According to Copernicus satellite estimates, nearly 3,000 buildings would have been destroyed and 138 more would have been damaged, and 370 hectares of crops would have been seriously damaged, most of them devoted to banana cultivation, with the negative and high economic consequences this entails for the island. It is in the face of natural disasters such as the eruption of a volcano of this magnitude when the State must act with determination and without lukewarmness to help the population, a population that has lost everything. That is why in Citizens we have always shown our support for how many measures have been adopted to give green light to the various aid packages, but this has not prevented us from insisting from our parliamentary group on the Government in which it must act decisively and offer the citizens of La Palma the help they needed so much, aid that for many months was not enough or came quickly enough. Nor have we stopped pro-actively proposing in our parliamentary group measures to alleviate the situation in which thousands of families live and live today on the island. We were among the first to warn the Government of the inadequacy of the first support measures taken for La Palma through the first royal decrees adopted. In September, the Government approved its first aid plan for self-employed workers affected by the eruption, but it left out of the benefit for those in charge of workers, since they had to withdraw from the RETA, cease their activity and, therefore, lay off their workers in order to be able to receive the extra aid. Faced with this situation, my parliamentary group, Citizens, denounced the error and asked the Government to rectify it, as it did later. After this royal decree came two more in which were included measures in the areas of housing, employment, consumer protection, aid to the agricultural sector or exemptions to social security, all of them necessary but insufficient. The Spanish liberals since the beginning of the emergency in La Palma have not been left in our arms waiting for the Government to present proposals to alleviate the situation of the palm trees and to accelerate the efforts of the reconstruction of the island we present our own initiatives, different non-legislative proposals with specific measures in support of the recovery of La Palma, with direct aid plans, flexibility of aid to self-employed persons and holders of agricultural holdings, as well as campaigns for the promotion of consumption in the market of the areas affected by the volcano. We will continue to do so; we will continue to do so until the inhabitants and businesses of La Palma can regain normalcy. It is in these limit situations that Spain sets an example and draws all its solidarity, unites around a just cause and shows that together we are stronger. In this sense, La Palma has been an example of inspiration for all and we must answer them with all the help we can. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u92	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas, do you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u93	Yes, Mr President, the Socialist Group's proposal with Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u94	Thank you. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on prioritizing the re-industrialization of Spain. [[File number 162/000838]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u95	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress on prioritizing the reindustrialization of Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u96	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Today the People's Parliamentary Group brings to plenary what would be the road map to prioritise and help the industry of our country without nuances, leaving aside ideologies and political colors. This GNP is the result of consensus, all the contributions and needs of each of the industrial sectors in this country. That is why I call for your approval today in the Congress of Deputies and for all the parties that we make up this House to give a unanimous yes to the Spanish industry. Only in this way will we be able to be competitive and respond adequately to the needs that our country has, in particular to the enormous economic crisis, which has worsened with the invasion of Ukraine. [[Applauds]] Your ladies and gentlemen have the opportunity today to amend past mistakes and look to the future with rigour and seriousness. It is not our intention to criticize actions by the Government that have plagued industry in the current crisis situation or other political parties that support it for proposals that do not match the needs of Spanish industry or those of its workers. It is not our intention, ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to make proposals for a strategic sector that generates 13% of GDP and 12% of employment directly, although its indirect and induced effects reach 43% of wealth and 30% of employment respectively. We know that jobs in the industrial sector are of high quality in terms of wages, stability and training, and that industry is responsible for 92% of goods exports and for more than 50% of private investment in research, innovation and technological development, a key area not only to boost competitiveness, but also to facilitate the development of products and technologies that guarantee sustainability and the effective fight against climate change. It all started with the VOCID-19 pandemic. Industry was aware that behind the health pandemic would come an economic crisis, a change in the way we understand the economy, testing our productive fabric. It is an initiative that we have been working on for many months and that is still in force and is current, ladies and gentlemen, before Putin invades Ukraine. They do not think for a moment that the industrial sector has begun to experience difficulties at the moment. Before the war we had a problem of electricity prices - it had multiplied by five and even ten -; before the war we had an energy rupture produced by an abrupt transition. We had before the war an inflation of 7.6%, two points above the EU average, and before the war we already had a crisis of supply of products in the Spanish countryside. Today, Spain has higher inflation than the European Union, more debt than the European Union and more deficit than the European Union. Therefore, we had a high-risk situation that after the war has increased, it is true. Urgent measures are needed today more than ever. There is no ambiguity, we can no longer afford contradictory messages among the members of the Government. The same week that the presidents of all the autonomous communities meet and support Mr Sánchez to take action, we cannot release the document of the alleged tax experts to the government's proposal, which calls for increased taxation in Spain. It is a mistake to talk about imposing more taxes on the automotive sector. We need to lower taxes, lower the most burdensome tax for families, especially for low incomes, which is inflation. It is necessary to lower energy taxation for Spanish households, but also for companies, especially for electro-intensive ones, and for all sectors that need energy in their production processes. We can talk about the transport sector or the sea sector on my land. The energy transition has to be fair or it will not be. The process of transition to a decarbonized economy requires the indispensable collaboration of the sectors directly affected. Only with them and by making them part of this transition will we ensure that their effects are not negative for our economy. A much more meditated, paused and proportional transition process must be carried out. The problems of Spanish industry did not arise two or three weeks ago, as your ladies and gentlemen know. Don't come up with the idea that war has caused everything because it's not true. All industrial sectors began to work on proposals for the future that we have gathered in four areas of action. And here you are not mistaken, this is not a non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is a proposal of law of the Spanish industrial sector that we have the honour to put before you today, in the Courts. That is why it is essential, if we want to build among all the reindustrialization of our country, to create a climate of confidence and stability that attracts investment and talent, while ensuring legal, regulatory and predictable security for the coming years. The industry's drive plan is based on four axes. Strategic measures, which must develop such a pact by industry agreed with the main political forces, economic and social actors, autonomous communities. Economic measures to improve the industrial environment, confidence-building framework, legal certainty and regulatory predictability. Short-term measures: maximising the transformative potential of the funding programmes authorised for the European Union. And palliative measures: co-governance and coordination measures, a national agency for industrial development without increasing public spending. Finally, I would like to reiterate to you the unity and unanimity of this non-legislative proposal in order to promote the competitiveness of Spanish industry and thus to comply with what has been agreed in the Committee on Industry these months. I insist, it remains necessary and urgent for our industry. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u97	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u98	Thank you very much, President. I hope, Mrs Moralesja, ladies and gentlemen, that this parliamentary initiative will not be sterile, because, knowing the current government that we have in this nation and what its parliamentary support is, I am very afraid that it will not come forward anyway. And it'll be a real shame, I think. As his proposal was recorded in September 2021, it does not logically include the current situation caused by Putin's invasion of Ukraine, and above all the devastating results of it, nor, of course, the consequences this will have for our economy and industry by the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Mr Putin's government. However, ladies and gentlemen, this has caused everything to change - the years of pandemic and now this aggression by Putin. The international order, the security of Europeans and the strategic, financial and energy autonomy of the whole Union - and I would dare say even worldwide - will mean a rethinking of all the known order, especially as regards industry, industry in capital letters, because it will affect how we produce, how we spend, how we invest and how we consume, all of them fundamental factors in defining an industrial policy that sustains our country's capacities in the coming decades. Globalization, as a phenomenon based on the continuous increase of interconnection between nations, whether on the economic, political, social or technological level, will cease to exist, ladies and gentlemen. Independence or rather interdependence, whether energy, strategic, fiscal, economic or industrial resources and capabilities, will be the new paradigm that we must face. And this Spain cannot do alone, ladies and gentlemen, it will be within the European Union - an ever stronger, stronger, more supportive, more autonomous and interdependent European Union - how we will be able to face this enormous challenge presented to us in Western society. Putin's war is a war against the whole of the European Union. The sanctions imposed in the past few weeks, and certainly those that are to come, will bring about the devastation of the Russian economy, but at a terribly high cost to European society. It is the price we will have to pay for defending the international legality and democratic will of free nations in order to continue to choose the world in which to live and not the one imposed by the exclusive will of a person who is not accountable, except for himself. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be a crisis as we have never seen in our democracy. I don't want to be an alarmist, but I don't think we should treat our citizens like they don't know anything. We must offer certainties in the face of the natural doubts of our citizens, we must offer pacts, consensus and agreements, and we must explain this very well, not in a simplistic way, as President Sánchez and his ministers did last week. It is not enough to identify the culprit, Putin and the war; the Spanish Government must also tell society what the future consequences will be and what measures to take. In our group we have amended your proposal by trying to adapt it to the context brought by this war. As we have already said, this decisive event has recalibrated many priorities on the European board, mainly those of security and defence and those of energy. This impact is already felt throughout the industrial chain inevitably, it is in the hands of the government to put the necessary means in place for the Spanish industry to resist and take advantage of this blow as far as possible. Automotive, metallurgy and defence technologies, aeronautical safety and space are the three most important sectors of Spanish industry, with a combined contribution of almost 20% of industrial GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, the defence industry in Spain made €6654 million in 2019 and generated 23,000 jobs. On its civilian side, beyond the pandemic, the aeronautical industry handles demand forecasts of 40,000 new aircraft worldwide until the year 2040, of which 15,000 will come from the renovation of existing ones. On the military side, Spain is important, it is a very important actor in the European framework participating in the projects of the FCAS, the Eurodrone or the expected sales increases of the A400. Spain must maintain this position of strategic aerospace pole fighting to host the projects that arise in the sector. In this respect, we are pleased that today's Council of Ministers has approved this Naval LOSS, although we do not know anything about what will happen to the Aerospace LOSS, which we are also calling for. I believe that both are vital for industry and must be put in place alongside an industrial defence programming law such as that of other countries, which provide stable financial frameworks for the Ministry's programmes. As far as automotive is concerned, the Government must propose genuinely ambitious incentives for decarbonized mobility. In this sense, the priority factor we believe should be batteries to ensure the short-term supply of those materials used in the production; increasing innovation in battery development will entail lower costs for vehicles. Finally, the Government must initiate a programme to adapt the intensive heat industry vital to the Spanish industrial fabric and highly dependent on natural gas. Ladies and gentlemen, we trust that the proposing group will accept these amendments and call on the Government to maintain with the various parliamentary groups a sincere dialogue on the future of Spanish industry in the crisis scenario that awaits us after this invasion, that of Ukraine, unjust, ruthless with the weakest and contrary to international legality and respect for human rights. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u99	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Group of the European People's Party is bringing us an initiative that announces seemingly sharp support for Spanish industry, and a very important part of this initiative does have an acceptable content, we could say that 75% of the initiative, but another 25% is totally unacceptable, and I will explain. This 25%, which is a full section of the initiative, is entitled: Protocol for the decarbonisation - with capitalization of the de - of the Spanish industry. And we must start by asking ourselves if we like industry, if we want Spain to have a strong industry; it is important that we all ask ourselves because, although it seems like a pergrullada, the answer in both parties of the alternation is probably not, or at least not so much, and I will explain myself. The climate issue and energy are closely related, as everyone knows. Indeed, energy is one of the industry's main inputs, as well as having a strong impact on the climate issue, as the industry emits the so-called CO2, and I explain myself. CO2 costs are an administrative cost. To get an idea from those who listen to us, a steel-producing steel company in Spain will sell every tonne of steel about 700 euros and will have to pay for its CO2 emissions up to about 132 euros. Do you guys realize that? They represent approximately 15 % of the final product price of CO2 emissions, regardless of the costs of CO2 included in energy production. We're still talking about gasoline, diesel, and so on. The State imposes taxes representing 50 % of the final price of petrol and diesel. If there is now petrol at 2 euros, one euro is taken directly by the Administration between VAT, excise duties, excise duties on the value added of the product, etc. And yet, they attack these forms of energy and beat other potential forms of energy that we could have in Spain. Think about fracking, oil in the Canary Islands, nuclear energy, etc. And why do they do it? Because they don't like the industry so much. The reality is that all they are doing is putting the industry, one after the other, and the most obvious example we have in regulating CO2 emissions to car production. The European Union drew up a first regulation in 2007. In 2009, they tighten and demand fewer emissions, punish them more, another regulation. In 2011, another; in 2015, another; in 2017, another. And in 2021, with the approval of the Fit for 55 plan, they ended up giving the industry the blow of grace. All this within these protocols for the decarbonisation of industry that the People's Party introduces in this initiative, which supposedly seeks to support industry. You'll think, should CO2 emissions be moderated? Of course we must be moderated, of course, but what makes no sense is what they are doing in the alternation of parties, because they have both done so whenever they have ruled. You see that from 2007 to 2021 both have ruled and both have been accentuating the demands for our industry, and the situation is that the industry is disappearing in Spain. You yourselves, gentlemen of the People's Party, introduce measures that wear it down and attack it in initiatives that you supposedly intend to support, because you have abandoned the workers. Both are traitors, they have abandoned the workers, they have abandoned the industry and they have abandoned the sector. The proof is that all milk production in Spain is disappearing, precisely because of energy costs. Fisheries in Spain are in danger of extinction, precisely or, among other things, of energy costs. Let us not talk about the steel industry or the car industry! [[The lady]] In short, industry is in danger of extinction by the policies that you two traitors have been imposing, one after the other. [[Applauds]] And today the People's Party, to supposedly support the industry, introduces a new twist of thread to these policies...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u101	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u102	...that precisely harm the industry. That is, while with one hand they slap the industry in the back, with the other they put the shackles on their feet to prevent it from moving forward. So, if you accept that amendment, in which we propose that you return to the reasonable path, we will be able to support your initiative; otherwise, we will remain the only alternative for industry in Spain. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u103	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We agree with the statement of reasons for the GNP for the need to strengthen a modernising industrial policy linked to technological change and digitisation, which integrates decarbonisation and energy transition and optimizes the European REACT-EU fund. But we do not agree with other analyses that are forced by reason, in our view, or with the measures they propose. Policies such as strategic reindustrialization that we need are for us the test of cotton to check whether the commitment to territorial rebalancing and the fight against depopulation is a firm and determined bet, assuming that it requires structural changes in the country, or is only so until it affects a particular status quo, that is, the current state of affairs. From our point of view, the industrial strategy must also necessarily be a tool for correcting territorial imbalances, because it can contribute simultaneously and with the same investment to solving two of our main challenges: re-industrialisation and re-balancing and territorial cohesion. To this end, this new strategic industrialization must be located in the territories of emptied Spain. It will be with them that the necessary reindustrialization will be achieved and, at the same time, helping to correct the serious internal territorial imbalances in our country; all this, as I have said, with the same investment and taking advantage of all the positive externalities that the same can have. For this reason, our proposal is a reindustrialisation with activities of high added value, which is based on territorial rebalancing, on combating depopulation and on the dynamism of the towns and villages of the depopulated Spain. It is against the usual idea of placing wind turbines, reservoirs or mines in rural areas that will be abandoned and the industrial centres will derive them all, with higher wages and higher added value, to the industrial corridors or to the metropolitan areas of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group is to be thanked for the approach of this very broad parliamentary initiative, which promotes numerous measures, all of which are of great importance, to undertake an extraordinary plan to reindustrialise Spain. What the Government does not do must be promoted by the opposition. More than three and a half years have been wasted - those of Pedro Sánchez as president and Reyes Maroto as head of industry - to curb the gradual loss of competitiveness and weight of industry in the national GDP, which takes us away from the European average and which is crumbling a set of sectors and subsectors that are key to the present and future of Spain's economy and employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the threats arising from the terrible industrial policy, aggravated by the perverse effects of energy policy, are compounded by the aftermath of the pandemic crisis and now by the impact of the war conflict, with its consequences in the form of a war economy. Just review the newspapers these days to check the damage to the industry, which are already causing stoppages in production, job cuts and relocations in the wild. The Government, dedicated to its self-propaganda, is late and ill. The four main areas of action and development proposed in this non-legislative proposal for a new industrial policy, the proposals and protocols developed in this initiative are urgent. The unit requested by Mrs Moraleja is essential. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u108	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Reindustrialisation in Spain, in Cantabria in particular, and in the whole cantabrian cornice, is an absolutely unreplaceable necessity. For example, Cantabria has risen from about 40% of GDP in industry to just over 20% in recent years, and every week we have some negative news in this area. And, already in a survey years ago, at a time when I was a Territorial Planning Advisor, people were asking for industry and nature, things that can be perfectly compatible. That is why we must tell the Government that it has to act now, that as the world is now, and we are seeing it, the need to act in industry is absolutely indefatigable, because what is now lost is going to take many decades to recover. In addition to great plans, of all that the People's Party proposes, what is absolutely necessary is to take action now. We have consistently demanded it for the electro-intensive industry, but it is necessary for the whole industry and the first step, which is demanding all sectors, is the reduction in the price of energy, electricity, gas and petroleum products. That is absolutely essential. Therefore, it seems to me very good that the People's Party is constructive, that it prepares its plans for when it governs, if it governs, but at the moment it is up to the Government to act, and these measures are indefatigable, above all these great plans that we have. We need to reduce energy prices in Spain as soon as possible, in all sectors, especially in industry.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u109	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u110	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. After reading the initiative of the People's Party, one can only conclude that it is long and extensive, because it certainly is. I think it is intended to be analytical and detailed, and there we can no longer agree so much. You've been told before and I can tell you too, don't you think you should have updated it? And I'm not just saying what it has to do with Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the effects it may have, but something that I'm going to quote you from your initiative that is literal, because I've taken the trouble to read it. It would almost deserve a prize, because it has some toast, but, as I said, this is literally yours: but, stuck in the mistake, this government continues to support its reforms in the opposite direction, repealing the labor reform, which allowed for millions of jobs, additional tax increases. The initiative is of 21 May 2021, tell me what labor reform has been repealed from 21 May 2021 until now, because that comes in your text, what I have read is literal. Tell me, what additional tax increases have occurred, whether what we are talking about here is always about whether the tax cuts that are being made, especially to fuels, are enough or not. I think that's the reality. What you are asking us is a dystopic reality, as dystopic as that of the 2019 pandemic, that I do not know whether it referred to President Sánchez as a pandemic element or has gone beyond braking at the origin of the pandemic. In any case, this is a manual agitation and propaganda initiative. And it's legitimate, I'm not calling that into question, it's as simple as saying that everything bad that happens is the party with which you alternate in the government and that all good that can happen is the work and responsibility of yourself; that is, this is a Rajoy returns, a return to Rajoy's theses, and for that it is necessary to forget about many things. It must be forgotten, for example, that the rise in taxes from 18 to 21 % occurred in 2012 with a government of Mariano Rajoy. That does not appear in the extensive and extended introduction that you make because it does not support your story. That's why I say it's a story of agitation and propaganda, but honestly, for us and ourselves, for the people of the independent sovereignist left, it doesn't stand any serious analysis. To place a stake on the reindustrialization by the party that has done most to turn Spain - the Spanish state, the Kingdom of Spain, as they wish to call it - into a model of production of hospitality, sun and tourism, as a fundamental element and main vector of economic construction, does not resist a serious analysis. In any case, we do believe that his initiative has definite elements, has a very definite aroma, rephrases neoliberalism and class perspective. Perhaps, someone right now is upset about what I just said, but we do believe that they have a class perspective, that of the ruling class, obviously. And why do I say this? For it is another literal example of the initiative that you have presented: 'The collective closures and layoffs that affect industrial groups in Spain are announced every week'. And from there, a retahíla of companies that have suffered - some with a result different from what you expose here - all the cascade of layoffs. But do they affect business groups or workers? This is the eternal debate, the debate that will always separate you and us. For you, wealth is generated by the entrepreneurs, and if it is with public money helping them, much better; for us, wealth is generated by the workers, and the entrepreneur does what he does is enrich himself with the surplus value of the workers and with the help that you continue to demand from the state. In short - and I also said - this is book neoliberalism; Mrs Moraleja, book neoliberalism. And what do they propose? They are planting more public aid for entrepreneurs; a strong state is needed here, to make the entrepreneur stronger. They plan to eliminate the demands on companies regarding climate change or, as you say, to become more flexible, because it is true that there are tougher versions that still propose to return to the 19th century, forgetting any route to cope with the climate transition. But more are being done, we are being given more tax cuts and more tax aid to companies, the same - and we see it, by putting a concrete example, in the Diputación Foral de Vizcaya - that continue to accumulate a third of the tax fraud because, for example, they do not pay corporate tax, but we have to help them more, no matter what, wealth is generated by entrepreneurs and only they, the workers are pawns. And it proposes more, plans to put the state at the service of the needs of the companies, and dare even to get into the educational field saying that we have to change the university law because what needs to be done is to generate qualified pawns for the company and the needs of the company. Don't make any gestures to me, your text says so. [[The lady]] I have taken the trouble to read it; I have some doubt whether you have taken the trouble to read it. It also plants facilities to relocate...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u111	Mrs. Moraleja, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u112	...as if we didn't have a panorama of relocations where we saw how they were given public money to settle, how they were enriched in our territory and how they were going, plus more public money to pay for the redundancies they caused. And in the face of this, what do we propose - because I see that I am running out of time - a new industrial model that is social, equal, technological, ecological and efficient, that makes R & D+i an effective reality, that abandons certain other models, and that, above all and fundamentally, counts with the participation of the workers, because you spoke of social consensus, but this can only generate social consensus with employers and employers who always mother the uber of the state to continue to maintain their levels of benefit as they were. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u113	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u114	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Of course, if we are convinced of something in my parliamentary group, and if the Basque Government is committed to something, it is with the drive of industry as an engine of growth and a generator of wealth. Industry, of course, is a key factor generating stable, quality jobs and good wages, which in Euskadi account for 24% of GDP. Industrial policy, of course, we believe that at the moment we should take into account the situation of the war in Ukraine, which is certainly going to change the mode of production, the way of thinking about business and also the way of dealing with energy policy, which is going to be key to the competitiveness of industry. It is true that today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have a GNP which we believe, in that sense, is somewhat out of time and which, then, because of its extension - which I think you have already said here - is much more like a GNP which usually brings us very extensive VOX, which is sometimes difficult to read and which I believe is neither effective nor efficient to the object it seeks. It is a somewhat generalist proposal. We understand that industrial policy requires a strategic and ad hoc reflection of the autonomous communities, because the productive fabric has nothing to do with each other; a GNP that does not, of course, contemplate the autonomous reality, generic measures; and we understand that the key to an efficient industrial policy must know the global challenges to be addressed, the productive fabric of each territorial reality, its strengths, its capacities and its weaknesses in order to be able to design measures ad hoc to the objectives sought. Industrial policy must now be accompanied by concrete energy policies, as I said, so as not to undermine its competitiveness. I think that Mr Mazón has also said this here, and I think it is more essential at the moment to address this issue of high energy prices and even the gas disconnection of the bill. We share the fund, but not certain measures, because some, even, affect competences that are exclusive to the autonomous communities. They focus on measures that can be all and nothing. Perhaps it could be an amendment, better, to the whole of the recovery plan or axis 12 of the government's industrial policy and which we are not going to share, even though we also believe that, in that industrial policy axis or in that recovery plan, of course, there are measures and spaces for improvement. They include measures that have been discussed in plenary and also in the Commission; some have been rejected, such as the creation of an independent authority that we do not share. They talk about an industry pact, when there are already some foundations of the industry pact that we were given to political groups within the High Level Forum for Industry. They talk about changes in the selection and analysis processes of the recovery and resilience projects or in the PERTE, when we do not know at the moment neither the procedures nor much less the selection criteria that are being dealt with, because there are no regulatory bases, there are no calls in many cases and, moreover, they seem to try to alleviate a wound that may not exist. They are also talking about a fiscal rebalancing plan which, of course, has been widely rejected in this House. They call for measures against lateness that are already contained in the bill creates and grows, which, of course, will have to be improved. They speak of national agencies that we, of course, do not share. And that's how it goes on and on. We believe, as I said before, that, given the situation that industry has been experiencing right now since June, it might have been better to address concrete measures to alleviate those energy costs that industry is suffering at that time and that, at a time of recovery and transformation, we understand that we cannot afford to do so. Industry today does need a real boost and support and, of course, if there is already an industrial strategy, even if we do not agree 100% with it, we believe that, if there is will, we should all work in that direction to improve, contribute and to make industry competitive and help generate stable and quality jobs. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am not going to go into the content of your proposal because there is a previous question: to make proposals, such as the one you bring here today, on industrial policy we must have credibility and you definitely do not have it. The BNG fights in this Congress every day for the government to deal with the serious industrial crisis in Galicia, especially in the field of energy, but also in the Galician Parliament, because it must be remembered that the Galician government has competence in economic and industrial policy, and therefore, beyond the PP's government experience in the state, the Galicians and Galicians know well what the industrial policies of the People's Party consist of. The government of Feijóo abdicated its responsibilities in this area, remaining impassive or, if possible, trying to use it in the partisan debate in the face of the turmoil of companies in crisis or which have closed the doors in the last few months in our country. Poligal, in Narón, 108 workers; Isowat, in A Coruña, 66; Siemens Gamesa, in As Somozas, 215; Vestas, in Viveiro, 115; Endesa, in As Pontes, 800; Vulcano, in Vigo, 69 at the time of closure, but in 1983 he gave employment to 1,700 people; Alu Iberiana, 320 workers. These are some examples of plants that recently closed down in Galicia, such as the shipyards of Barreras, in Vigo, in competition with creditors, with 120 workers at risk, being a company that came to exceed 2000 jobs, and Alcoa, with the tanks stopped and 1000 people with uncertainty about the future of their jobs. And the People's Party, with Feijóo at its head, taking a profile, when not hindering solutions, as in the case of Vulcano, with the president of the Harbour Authority, Enrique López Veiga, former councillor of the Xunta, resolving the concession of public domain. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Moraleja, if your hope is that Feijóo will come to save and rescue the PP, you should ask him not to do the same as with the industry in Galicia or with those sectors on which he has contributed to precariousness, I will deteriorate directly to demolish in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u117	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u118	Thank you, President. In our view, the prescriptions for what should be done in industrial policy are well known. Spanish policy sometimes fails to make many unfulfilled plans. I will base my intervention on some articles by Professor Xavier Ferràs, an expert in innovation and industrial policy. We just need to look at the industrial policy that the main industrial countries, such as Germany, the United States, Finland, Israel and China, carry out. These countries allocate public subsidies to innovation so that a large part of the technological risk is not borne by the company, but by the country; the company is responsible for assuming the totality of the business risk. For example, in Finland it is supported by direct support for high-tech R & D business projects that both have a high risk and a high return. Huawei, the leading 5G infrastructure company, has received $75 billion from the Chinese government. In Israel, its technology incubators account for 85 % of the costs of high-tech entrepreneurs with the greatest impact potential. This R & D aid is not intended to generate scientific knowledge but is aimed at creating industrial competitive advantages. These industrial policies are stable and well-endowed innovation policies. The INNVIERTE fund, of the Centre for Industrial Technological Development, is in this line. Too bad he's totally under-educated. Following the example of these countries, industrial policy should be based on a new social contract whereby the Government would finance much of the R & D of companies in exchange for them to grow and generate quality jobs, and to this end it would be essential to increase R & D resources. There is now the opportunity for Next Generation funds, but, from what we are seeing, they are not being used enough to carry out very high-tech projects developed by companies aimed at generating technological competitive advantages, having sectoral impact and creating quality jobs, and we must add that they are highly centralized. The Generalitat of Catalonia presented twenty-seven transformative projects, with a capacity for profound changes in the productive fabric, which have been ignored so far. For all that we have said, we shall abstain from this proposal for a law. In our view, it does not focus well on the priorities of industrial policy and does not give rise to the role that autonomous communities should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u120	Thank you, President. The People's Party today brings to this plenary a non-legislative proposal in which it says it wants to prioritise industrialization in Spain. This GNP has a good thing, because at last the People's Party seems to abandon that maximum that the worst industrial policy does not exist, which was applied during the Rajoy government, with devastating effects on our industry. So far, the deals. And from here what should be explained to us is exactly what industrial policy your ladies and gentlemen want, because for us an industrial policy is needed that promotes reindustrialization aligned with European policies, a green reindustrialization that generates quality jobs, and that is exactly what the government is doing through innovation, adaptation to new technologies, technological impulses and generating quality jobs. The first thing you should explain to us is what is the framework in which you are moving, because the Castile and León Government has just agreed with a party that is a climate change negationist and, therefore, everything you talk about in your document on decarbonisation, ecological transformation and green taxation falls like water of drunkards. Should we believe in your document or those with which you agree? Mr Figaredo, representing VOX, has said here that 25% of his proposal does not like it; 25%, which refers to climate policy, and has devoted 100% of its intervention to attacking climate policies. Therefore, explain to us what is the framework in which you move, because the allies with whom you are negotiating government are directly negators of climate change. [[Applauds]] And not only are their government pacts, it is that in their action in autonomous communities and municipalities they are applying not the denialism of VOX, but the petardism of policies, which it does is to prevent the development of progress. In that sense, we believe that it is essential to define what kind of industrial plan is desired. Do they want industrialization in line with what the European Union has proposed and supported by European funds? In that case, two things are necessary: firstly, to have clear priorities, and secondly, to support European funding, and not to put obstacles, as you have done. In your document - like Mr Matute, I too have had the patience to read it - you speak of the repeal of labour reform. However, when the labour reform, agreed with the social partners, was voted on, and it is really an essential tool for industrial development, you, with the honourable exception of the Member of the House, voted against it. They talk about decarbonization, but what policies will they implement to achieve it? For example, the other day you, Mrs Moraleja, in the Committee on Road Safety, speaking precisely of decarbonisation policies and low-emission zones, showed your lack of support. Likewise, you talk about the climate change law and you lie, you in this GNP directly lie. They say that the text was adopted in a single session, without just discussing the more than seven hundred amendments tabled, and that is false. This law was debated for months in this House in the seven papers that there were; for months we were negotiating with the groups and a lot of amendments were adopted. His abstention from this law is a shame, which shows his true face in the field of climate. They're climate policy blockers, as I said. On the other hand, you are talking about the national energy sustainability fund, criticizing it and rejecting it as a government proposal. You are aware that this fund comes from the group of experts that formed the People's Party to discuss energy policies in the Rajoy legislature. It is your proposal, which you are now attacking in your non-legislative proposal. They take advantage of this GNP to introduce through the back door principles such as those of technological neutrality or net emissions calculation, which were discarded by the majority of this House in the debate on the climate change law. With regard to taxation issues, you forget that you have consistently opposed any initiative that could make us move forward in green taxation. So what are they telling us about green taxation is systematically against everything? I insist, we are committed to industrialization in line with the European Union's plans, to industrialization that generates quality employment, to an improvement of the environment and the recovery of industry for our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u121	Mr. López de Uralde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u122	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u123	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Serrano Martínez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u124	Thank you, President. Today the People's Party brings us a GNP with which we believe from the Socialist Parliamentary Group that it comes to claim that it is the first party of the opposition, and Mrs Moraleja well knows that the Government has already been working hard on some aspects of this GNP. You speak of stability and legal certainty, and precisely the People's Party at the most worrying moments of the pandemic with its negationism said no to all industrial policies, all the measures that came to protect at the most decisive moments; yes, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, as has been said by other Members, they have lost all credibility in defending this GNP, an initiative that speaks precisely of a pact for industry, in which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government are already working, to promote a pact that has the consensus of all, not of some, but of the entire industrial sector of our country, from which the industrial plan is also born, a strategy that the Government already has and also alludes to its GNP. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it is curious to see that they also refer to an industrial law in their GNP. We must look back: if we look at the industrial regulatory framework, this date of 1992, and the People's Party has ruled by absolute majority on two occasions in our country and has never introduced or promoted from the government any law to protect the industrial sector of our country, it has never done so. [[Applauds]] Why? Because it is easier to stir up from the opposition, and yet when they are in the government they do absolutely nothing, in this case in the field of industry and protection of our country's industrial fabric. You do not have an industrial project, you do not have any industrial policy to protect all the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, and now less, ladies and gentlemen, because, depending on where you are, you will have to position yourself one way or another. Or what are you going to do with your partners and that shame pact of Castile and Leon? Are you going to support European industrial policy or are you going to support the conditions that Mr Figaredo, spokesman for VOX, has told you? [[Applauds]] That is the reality, and therefore you are not aligned with that industrial policy of Europe. That challenge that Europe has set itself to re-industrialise all our countries, also ours, and that by 2030 our country's GDP is supported by industry by 20%, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have already called it into question. So we, the Socialist Group, when we see this GNP, ask: Where were they then? Where was the People's Party when the government asked him at the decisive moments of the pandemic to approve the ERTEs? Where were they when the government was reaching out to approve lines of endorsement that have enabled EUR 120 billion to be mobilised to give liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises? Where were you then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] What this GNP does mean, Mrs Moraleja, is an opportunity for the People's Party. And it is that they have the opportunity to change their attitude, rather than continue with that negationist policy that has done so much damage to industry in our country. We welcome them and extend our hand to them in that policy of building, of responsibly facing the problems and challenges we are going through. But what we can't do, what you can't do is take advantage of the circumstances and the situation that is going through our country. You cannot do so, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and you know precisely that the Socialist Party and the Government are already doing many policies so that the situation we are going through will not be affected by the whole sector. I am referring to the rise in the prices of light, gas and hydrocarbons. The government immediately set in motion the reduction of the generation tax, the reduction of VAT from 21% to 10%, which you raised, in a direct aid deployment, in the elimination of the sun tax, designed by the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u125	Mr. Serrano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u126	I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u127	It has to end in seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u128	Here and now we reach out to them from the Socialist Group to work for the sector. Be clear, explain it to your colleagues and your travel partners. What they can't do is bring us a GNP on something they know exactly that the government is already working on and VOX puts them in check. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Moraleja, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u130	We are working on it and we will bring to the Bureau the agreement that will be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u131	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u132	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Oramas González-Moro, on the steps that the Government will take to improve the management of minimum living income so that it reaches all those who need it. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u133	Thank you, Madam President. On May 29, 2020, the Government approved the minimum living income, and, like when the adoption of the laws of dependency, diversity and homosexual marriage - of which I have lived - was a happy day for this country, because we covered the most vulnerable people in society. However, the Government estimated that it would reach 850 000 households and 2 300 000 people in a first phase, yet one year later, it had reached only 373 000 of those originally planned by September. The causes for which we did not reach all those we wanted by the political forces and which the Government had raised are multiple, first of all because of the precipitation with which the first part developed, when it was warned by many of the political forces that there were errors in processing and those requirements, a bureaucracy and requirements that most people could not meet, and that was why three subsequent corrections were made. Another cause was the need for telematic processing, when people in exclusion and poverty lack minimal digital knowledge. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u134	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Oramas. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u135	As we all know, according to Foessa and the Ministry, half of the households in social exclusion suffer from digital blackout, which means that 1 800 000 households are in this situation today, mainly people over the age of sixty-five. Telematics management must therefore be an alternative but not an imposition, especially in a benefit such as this. There is also a shortage of staff. The other day I discovered the case of the Canary Islands, but I know that there are more communities in the same circumstances, with huge queues since five in the morning, with people who are going to process not only the minimum living income but also the pensions and, in general, the type of benefits that are made in these offices. It should be borne in mind that the officials were already overloaded. In the case of the Canary Islands, we have an average of 30% unfilled seats, and this situation has caused the trade unions themselves, in defence of the citizens, to be mobilizing weekly. That is why, as I say, it is also essential to have sufficient staff to attend to the processing. On the other hand, when the requirements change, the persons who had been refused are not notified and now they are entitled to the corrections subsequently made by the ministry. It is usually the case that people, especially those of social exclusion and poverty, are not left to the bulletin and do not know that they are now entitled to it. And those who have knowledge and go to the offices make them resubmit all the documentation, when they already have that right. Sometimes you have to solve some problem with a paper, but one hundred percent is required. And with regard to those who resort to justice and the social court gives them reason, the High Court of Justice is called upon and, as the People's Party has very well explained in its approach, they do not start to charge from that ruling of the social court, and I know specific cases, and that is why there are billions of this year's budget that have not been spent. I have put forward a number of proposals and informed all the parliamentary groups that the last four were unanimously adopted in the Parliament of the Canary Islands by means of a non-law proposal by Podemos, Citizens, the PP and the Socialist Party. The first ones relate to the reflections I have just expressed to you, on the one hand, by trying to ensure that the people who were initially refused but are now entitled to be notified of this, while they are not required to have all the documentation again because yes, but only those requirements that are essential, so that the granting of the benefit is approved ex officio to those who do not have to prove anything, and, if there is a judgment of the social courts, that no appeal is made in most cases, that they begin to receive the benefit and that telematic management is only one option. As I want to be positive and here nobody is going against the minister, against the government or against anyone, I will point out that what I am proposing is what the Red Cross, Caritas, social workers and social security workers say, that is, that the number of families and households entitled to minimum living income could be increased immediately, as was the will of the government and this House. That is why I am not going to accept any amendments, not because they do not coincide, but to allow each of the points to be voted on separately, so that those which were approved by all the political forces, such as the workers' claim and the Administration concerning the filling of the places and having sufficient staff for face-to-face care, can be supported. And, with regard to the rest of the points, if you agree that they should be communicated to you on their own initiative, as you will understand, I cannot accept that an information campaign should be said, but that every person who has been refused and now meets the requirements should be sent a letter telling him to go to the office, that the law has changed; that, as I say, instructions should be given that, when there is a social judgment, they should begin to collect, as the rule determines; or, finally, that people who are in social vulnerability, exclusion and poverty should not be forced to do telematics management, when they do not have the right tools or knowledge. Another thing, as I say, is that communities will improve their management from the point of view of making such a transfer, just as it could happen in smaller municipalities, because it could be done perfectly. Today I make positive proposals. There is no lobby of people who have the minimum vital income. It is only a matter of having those two million people whom the Government envisaged receive a right that they have by law. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u137	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This motion addresses one of the most relevant issues in the social sphere, which is the arrival of minimum living income for people in poverty and who need it, an issue that is important to address, especially in the situation in which we find ourselves, with the rise in prices that we have been suffering for several months and that have ended up breaking out with the invasion of Ukraine. Now it becomes even more necessary to address this matter, there are many families who are already noting in their pockets how it is increasingly difficult for them to make the purchase, pay the receipts of the light or fill the car deposit, and, as always, the most harmed are the vulnerable people. For this reason, from Citizens we have defended minimum income as an essential tool for our welfare state to be effective. In fact, I have to correct Mr Enrique Santiago, because last week he alluded to my colleague Edmundo Bal at the point concerning the debate on the state of the nation saying that Citizens had not supported minimum living income. It's totally uncertain. We have been among the parties that have most defended minimum living income as a social shield and have made contributions to make this benefit effective. During its parliamentary process, we have already noted that not enough work has been done to address one of the most important challenges, namely reaching people in severe poverty. The data show that it has not yet arrived. As is well said, it is because of excessive bureaucracy, because there are many requirements that are complex and because there is a lack of adaptation to the realities of the people receiving this benefit. Sometimes the ministry itself is airtight in the face of realities that the social entities themselves and the parliamentary groups themselves have put on the table. When the royal decree was passed, it was said that it would reach 800,000 households and 2.3 million people; however, today only 350,000 benefits have been approved. The reality is that the promises of the Government of the real result are far from being made. Moreover, if we see the causes of the denials of the minimum living income we realize that they have to do with errors in the documentation, with the belonging to what is the unity of a coexistence other than the units of conviviality to which they are addressed or with the lack of papers, signatures or with presenting it in duplicate. We see that there is a bureaucracy that ends up screwing up, and the only thing it is causing is that the minimum living income is not reaching the families or the poorest people in our country. After two years of implementation, I think it is obvious that something is not working well. We can't say that everything works fine when, really, it's not coming. That is why our amendments to this motion are to help those population groups that are not being reached. Why is it being denied that minimum living income reaches those 18 to 22 years of age who are self-reliant and who have no children but are in poverty? The Ministry looked elsewhere when we requested it. We are now told that this type of amendment is not going to be accepted, but why deny the poverty that exists within vulnerable groups and that it also affects young people? Citizens don't understand. Why refuse to change the regulation of minimum living income living units? Why can two brothers living in poverty with their family units not ask for a minimum living income for each family by sharing their homes? It's just that it's incomprehensible. These are realities that we put on a tray, but everyone says they're going to look at it, although it turns out that they don't want to see this reality. Why are not the last twelve months not counted in the calculation of income - it is another question - to see the economic reality of families? What we want to say is that Citizens and those who present motions put reality on a tray to the ministry, the reality that would make this benefit useful. I tell you that - it does not give me much time - with two years of benefit we would have to be talking about the inclusion itineraries and how this benefit is being compatible with employment. But no, we are still stuck in a great bureaucracy and there are those who are not getting the minimum living income. Therefore, what I am asking for is responsibility and to be heard, ladies and gentlemen, is what citizenship, in a situation of severe poverty, needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u139	Thank you, President. We again take stock of vital minimum income, an example of mismanagement. The facts are indisputable, despite Mr.Written's negative pride in recognizing his failure and despite the fact that poverty continues to grow. Compared to the 2.3 million beneficiaries promised, today, barely a third receive it and, while 6 million Spaniards in severe poverty, 2 million more than in 2018. While the Government denies 75% of applications, 90% of Spaniards at risk of exclusion remain without resources. In a country with the highest unemployment rate in Europe, with 11 million Spaniards at risk of exclusion, with inflation, with the low income tax unlocked, with light, diesel and many basic foods turned into luxury items, the government leaves 1 billion IMV unexecuted while doubling subsidies to friendly unions and devoting billions to the useless occurrences of the invisible Minister of Equality, for the Spanish scandal. While in the street the anguish is palpable, you are squandering on unproductive spending. An example that the IMV is not that idyllic world that Mr Escriva paints is also the situation of thousands of people, like Mari Luz, a young Galician with a younger daughter who have recognized the IMV on their own day and those who now reduce the small amount they received, claiming, moreover, what they supposedly perceived wrongly, even if they were recognized on their own by the INSS itself, something they cannot cope with, or do you believe that these families have some saving capacity? I would like you to know your anguish at the consequences of a debt that she has not caused. There is also the case of those beneficiaries who by the end of 2021 had not made the 2020 update and continued to receive the amount calculated according to 2019 revenues, when the pandemic had not impacted their economies. It is indeed necessary to strengthen the staff of the INSS, whose professionalism the People's Party recognizes. It is the Government that has burdened them with work without the necessary reinforcements. And to this, too, your political sectarians discriminate against the Spanish, because even from the fight against poverty, gentlemen of the PSOE, you are making a partisan use. Of the European funds for inclusion routes, 81% have been allocated to communities governed by the PSOE and use the IMV to satisfy their independence partners, breaking the single Social Security box and endangering Spanish pensions. Indeed, we warned him. The precipitation, the lack of rigour and the implementation of the IMV without having the means to do so have collapsed the INSS offices, causing delays in other services. That is why, in our amendment, which we regret is not accepted, we reiterate today the need for these personal and material reinforcements of INSS throughout Spain, especially in the provinces, where the official/expedient ratio is high, the improvement of face-to-face appointments to combat this digital exclusion and the simplification of bureaucracy. We have been asking for this for a long time, and the Government refuses everything, turning the management of this benefit into ineffective to combat poverty, which grows every day, even with the IMV. They said they were not going to leave anyone behind, another slogan that believes the frivolity of their policies, because at this stage no one will stand. Their inability to prevent and tackle problems, their collection voraciousness and, ultimately, the difficult situation that families and all sectors - self-reliant, industry, farmers, businesses - are experiencing today totally delegitimizing their policies. Please note, the economic situation in Spain is at high risk. It is urgent to take concrete measures to reduce taxes on light, gas and fuels and to allocate them to families and businesses. Stop being frivolous, because no docuserie is going to solve the poverty situation of millions of Spaniards. Start thinking about the general interest of the Spaniards or in a short time the situation of millions of people in this country will be irreversible and there will be no IMV to solve that situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u140	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Baños Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u141	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this agenda item we are discussing a motion following an inquiry into what measures the Government is going to take to improve the management of the IMV. Mrs Oramas, the Socialists thank you for the inquiry, because it allows us to highlight the important effort, from the government and from the officials who manage this benefit, it has been developing continuously for twenty-one months. It is a motion that allows us to see that we are in a complex policy, by the population to which it is addressed, people at risk of exclusion, both with access difficulties and to record their degree of vulnerability. Hence, it is subject to a permanent proof-error assessment to move forward in improving its management and reaching more beneficiaries and more households. Mrs. Oramas, do you know what it's for to do this continuous test of the actions that have been set up? So to make evidence-based policies and gain in effectiveness, look for good practices and thus extend them to the whole territory. Ladies and gentlemen, last December we passed the law on minimum living income. Two and a half months later, the number of beneficiaries amounts to 965,000, 16% more than the October data, and there are 381,000 protected households, 9% more. And it is very important, because if we focus on children, we will see that last February, the IMV-perceived households with minors were able to charge the child support supplement, 154,000 households, which added 15 million euros to the benefit. And all of this has been possible thanks to the increase in the income threshold and the assets contained in this law. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, poverty is inherited and minimum income is a stake in inclusion and, therefore, a stake in the future. But let us also have perspective, ladies and gentlemen, because just two years ago the UN Special Rapporteur asked us as a country for not understanding how Spain was the fourth economy in the European Union and the fourteenth in the world was among the countries with the highest rates of inequality and poverty. And he told us, ladies and gentlemen, that poverty was a political decision. And this government has decided to eradicate it, as we have demonstrated in the midst of the pandemic by deploying a genuine social shield that includes minimum living income; yes, Mrs Angulo. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have one million people protected from the risk of social exclusion. If in thirty years the minimum autonomous income reached three hundred thousand households, in year and a half the minimum vital income reaches four hundred thousand households. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen, eradicating poverty and avoiding social exclusion must be a collective effort. Therefore, we agreed that minimum living income was a guaranteed minimum soil, from which the autonomous communities could complement and expand it, articulating specific policies that would achieve that true inclusion. And that is what we have collected in the law, and that is what the Government of the nation has focused on, agreeing with the autonomous communities, with the local entities and with the third sector; and already the majority of the autonomous communities have changed their regulations to adapt precisely to the minimum living income. As you well know, in the Canary Islands too. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen, of course I agree that we have to extend the benefit to the people who really need it, to those who surely, given their risk situation, do not know that it exists and that it can also help them to increase their limited financial resources and to place their children in a better position. In this respect, we have tabled an amendment which seeks precisely that, Mrs Oramas. If we are really in the same situation, I ask you, despite what you have announced, to reconsider it, because it is important that we go together in the urgent matter and that we do not get lost in generalist and unrelated requests, that they are all in one motion and that, in addition, all they can do is end up in sterile debates, turning away from what really matters to us. I'm finishing up, President. Today, ladies and gentlemen, minimum living income calls us back, and I hope it will continue to do so, for this means that we continue to try to improve a benefit that was born out of nowhere at a time of great social vulnerability and that today, unfortunately, becomes more important. We must congratulate ourselves on its existence. As you have pointed out, it is one of the most important pillars of our welfare State since the adoption of the dependency law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Baños. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u143	President, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u144	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u145	..., I believe that the initiative puts on the table such basic evidence that it has not been deployed as should the minimum living income, because the coverage has been scarce for the claims it had, nor has it been accessible to those who needed it, because it has been, as has already been pointed out, tens of thousands of people who have encountered difficulties in accessing this aid, to the minimum living income, and not because they do not meet the requirements, which, as has been pointed out, have also been changing or changing, but because they were faced, probably and the fruit of their situation of poverty, with a reality more difficult to access the telematic tools that in many cases seem essential. I think that saying that is not zaherir to the government, it is not even disturbing or recriminating the government action of any minister; it is pointing out and verifying the evidence, and I think that is not intrinsically bad. Therefore, I do not understand that this initiative is seen in those terms. Many things separate us from those who have proposed this, but we can only see that this is true. It's just that surely all of us and we have had someone come to us on more than one occasion with such requirements. Moreover, this was already at the beginning of the debate, because you, ladies and gentlemen, will know that at the beginning of the debate the whole central element of how to save, in a crisis context, the difficulty in accessing the minimum living income of many people living in situations of extreme poverty had to do with whether we could articulate a previous mechanism that would be to give the aid and then check that no one had to depend on it for a month, two or three months in order to be able to eat, in order to have the minimum. That was the great debate that took place a year and a half ago when the minimum living income was set up. It would probably have been good to have done so, because there will be those who think that this would have led to a lot of fraud, a lot of picaresc. That debate I sincerely believe that we have overcome it in Euskadi and in Nafarroa, because this is also what is being said systematically with the guaranteed income to Navarre and with the income guarantee income, but then the reality is clumsy and shows that more than 96% of the economic fraud that occurs in either of those two realities that I have quoted has more to do with large companies than with the small amount of fraud that each one of these people can do. Therefore, we do believe that it is necessary to strengthen in the face of the telematics, that it is necessary to attend to a new reading of the requirements, that it is necessary to equip more personnel and that it is also necessary to do so in a more agile way, because I believe that we are all aware of the damage that we cause to anyone when, by getting them into a bureaucratic mess, we are not able to respond to their needs for months, for many months, and I no longer speak only of frustration or anger... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u146	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Matute. I'm sorry to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u147	As I say, I am not just talking about the pain that one can cause one to be left unspoiled by the Administration when he believes he is entitled to, but I am talking about the contingent and sounding reality of those who do not reach the end of me, of those who have difficulty in having a decent diet and depend on these incomes, and that is another obvious fact. In any case, we do believe that there is a lack of reflection. If this minimum living income was calculated and estimated on the basis of a reality that was that of a year and a half ago, we would now have to understand that the number of applicants is probably higher, because the situation is not better, and that the amount would have to be higher; that is, the required ceilings would have to be raised, because prices, unfortunately for all and all, have only done so much, and that makes it possible to access less with the same money. I end with a question, which has to do with the transfer of competition. I know that later there will be those who can influence it more, but I think it is also up to us to say here that this is also a matter of delay. This issue, the transfer of minimum vital income to the autonomous communities, in this case to the Basque Autonomous Community, has been announced as definitive four times already by the different governments questioned, by the central and by the autonomous. Four times we have been told that minimum living income was already a reality, but what is the reality?: that today is not a reality. I think someone here would have to make a slight self-criticism, and I'm thinking more about who doesn't end up crossing the competition than anyone else. That can be done without raising the voice or having to be insulting. Again, I believe that here we see a centralist view of the state when, probably, from different autonomous communities, the ability to weave social protection nets for the most disadvantaged people has already been demonstrated. I have spoken before about the guaranteed income of Navarre or the GIR, the income guarantee income. It ended with a question, because, as I've been relatively smooth, but I'm used to being tough, I don't want to lose my habits. It is often said that it is better to appear ignored for remaining silent than to speak and prove it. What does no one from the People's Party have to explain to Basque and Navarra citizens, who have been holding on to their own resources for some time, not evading anyone - with their own resources - a guarantee income for the citizens who have less? Perhaps what should be considered is why the citizens of the autonomous communities where the People's Party governs have less rights, because, probably, its rulers...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u148	Mr. Matute, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u149	...they prefer to allocate the money to other things. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u150	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are not allowed to chat in the Chamber or sit in the hallway and make comments. I beg your silence, please. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Almost two years have passed since the implementation of the minimum living income, but this aid has reached only 35.8% of the beneficiaries initially foreseen by the Government and receives only slightly more than 9% of the population living below the poverty line. Meanwhile, three out of four applications are still rejected for failing to meet or demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the standard. In Galicia alone, the number of Galicians and Galicians in a situation of severe poverty fell by 20% last year, to 253 783, the majority without access to such aid. The basic income that already worked, such as in Galicia RISGA, is an insufficient benefit in terms of its amount, but a greater extent. For this reason, the BNG defends from the first moment the transfer of management to the Xunta de Galicia, in order to be able to group together both aid and, therefore, to have a greater impact, a claim that was also approved by the Galician Parliament in 2020. Improve the management of minimum living income yes; transfer it to Galicia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u152	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u153	Thank you very much, President. This motion by Mrs Oramas is full of common sense, of reasons that we can share with all groups. This motion has the common sense of an old Japanese proverb, which said that common sense is the art of solving problems and not raising them. That is what we should all do, primarily politicians. This motion seeks to resolve deficiencies that have been detected with the application of minimum living income, which was not as said at first, as predicted by the minister. It has been seen to have had many shortcomings. Because of these deficiencies, it is intended to facilitate processing and concession to reach more people and then to provide personal resources so that it can be handled with agility and that it can reach more people. Common sense. From Compromís we will add a point that would complete the motion, and that is that the autonomous communities that wanted it could manage the minimum living income. The Valencians know how to manage it, we have demonstrated it every day in the Gouvernement Del Bòtanic. Our Valencian income of inclusion is one of the most complete and highest in the state: it reaches more than 75 000 Valencians, compared to the 25 000 that they paid when the People's Party was there. That is to say, we have multiplied the budget and recruitment by three times in collaboration with the municipalities, and with an absolutely unjust financing system. So, obviously, we're going to vote that yes...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u154	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u155	...to this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u156	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u157	Thank you very much, President. Good night. A first reflection in the area of minimum living income is that a very good work was done with the adoption of this law. PeCAT actively participated in the adoption of this law with amendments; some were incorporated, some were not approved by the Senate and finally lost, and we believe they were very interesting. But the truth is that a very valid instrument for those most vulnerable in situations of poverty entered the social state. However, on the application of this vital minimum income there are some doubts to be put on the table. Firstly, when in August 2021 we asked for information on the application of minimum living income in Catalonia we were told that only 46 000 people were beneficiaries, when Caritas de Catalunya pointed out that there were about 944,000 people in severe poverty. A number of issues have been added to this implementation of minimum living income. One is why the reasons for the denial of minimum living income are not indicated. We believe that it was necessary that this detail be indicated. Nor were there any parliamentary questions from this Member asking the Ministry about the breakdown of the causes of these denials. Over time, we even discovered one more obstacle to this application of minimum living income, the social security form, because those requests that I considered duplicated, automatically and without any resolution, ended up being totally discarded. This must also be linked to the issue of social security offices and the lack of human and material resources and the lack of face-to-face attention. It is precisely in this area that citizens are called upon to process minimum living income via telematics, which further deepens vulnerability situations. We have also asked various parliamentary questions in this area concerning previous appointments or lack of face-to-face attention. It is at least curious that the ministry does not have the capacity to say what the failure level of these previous appointments is. On parliamentary questions, we are told that people score well, that they put a 4 out of 5 in the service they are given. On the other hand, it is said that it is very difficult to quantify accurately the overall number of requests for prior appointments that are ultimately not materialized at the electronic headquarters. In other words, the attention that is given may indeed be very good, but the ministry and the Government are unable to quantify how many requests for prior appointments have failed in the electronic headquarters. And this, of course, ladies and gentlemen, also determines the success of benefits, the success of minimum living income. If there is no way to get a pre-date, there is not even enough attention to be able to process these aids. Honestly...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u158	Mr. Boadella, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u159	Cape in 20 seconds, Madam President. Frankly, we are waiting for the report that the AIReF will make within the first quarter of this 2022 to make an overall assessment of the minimum living income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u161	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It would not be a good position on the part of the Government to argue that in the management of minimum living income everything has been like silk, because unfortunately there are many people who can testify otherwise. We therefore share some of the underlying spirit of the initiative put forward by Mrs Oramas, because despite the unanimity that generated the creation of minimum living income, to this day it is far from fulfilling expectations. This benefit was presented as the ultimate tool against social exclusion, as if no one had previously worked on care measures to support people with fewer social resources, as if there was nothing other than the General Administration of the State. But you know what? In the Generalitat de Catalunya, despite the historical funding shortfalls, we have already established the guaranteed income of citizenship that was successfully led by Constellera Bassa a few years ago. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u162	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Pujol. I have to ask you again for silence. There are three speakers left. I'm asking you for one last effort, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u163	Thank you, President. The effort that guaranteed income from citizenship represents for an economically limited administration such as the Generalitat is immense and, despite this, it was done; it was done before in the State and has proved useful. The incredibly adverse conditions encountered by the Government to adopt policies of this kind demonstrate a degree of political involvement in the fight against inequality and also demonstrate something else: that close politics is always better, that things always get better if you know them firsthand. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here to demand competence, it is not our raison d'être, what we are is independence. However, no one can expect us to give up a single piece of ground in the area of self-government and, in this regard, competition belongs to the Generalitat de Catalunya. We are not going to get into how things should have been done, but today no one can argue that it is basic to channel the complementarity of the two benefits. There are differences, different speeds, different nomenclatures, different access requirements and, in addition, it is managed by different channels, which does not help either to be effective or to make life more useful and simple for people. It is not managed solely by the Generalitat, and this leads to significant chaos in such management. We want to manage it directly to be more operational, to be closer to people and, ultimately, to make life easier for them, so we're here. Let us be clear, we do not ask for the transfer to be mere managers, but to really manage it, and for this we need the transfer of resources from the State budget and from staff. We believe that the competitive factor of management is relevant to ensure that the current recipients of the guaranteed income of citizens can access it with the utmost agility and without negative effects and so that the times of resolution of the minimum income of life are not extremely long for those who are also entitled to the guaranteed income of citizens, since currently in Catalonia they are being resolved in a month and a half. Slow attention to extreme poverty is ineffective and perhaps useless. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by referring to an issue which also affects the poor management of minimum living income and which has an even greater impact in rural areas where we have historically suffered from unequal services and carelessness. I refer to the closure of the office of the National Social Security Institute of Móra d'Ebre, since March 2020 by the pandemic, and since April 2021 definitively. A month after the closure, on May 26, 2021, a motion for re-opening was passed by a majority in the Senate, with the PSOE's own favourable vote, but almost a year ago, and the neighbours of the Ribera d'Ebre, Terra Alta and the Priorat have no office to address their procedures. I would say to the Minister: put a solution to an issue that is essential for citizens, put a solution to an issue that you yourself have committed to reversing. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of our group, the monitoring and work of the Association Victims of Unemployment in this law and in the implementation of the minimum living income. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u165	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we talk again about minimum living income. Minimum vital income has undoubtedly been one of the main areas of progress in social protection. The Government took a historic step in social protection in Spain, generating a new social right: guaranteeing minimum income throughout the State to deal with a situation of social exclusion and economic vulnerability of a structural nature. The pandemic forced us to act urgently, as the crisis left many households without income, and it was necessary to advance this implementation of the last network to protect those in a serious situation of great vulnerability. I would like to recall that, for the first time, policies to respond to an economic crisis such as the one arising from the pandemic were geared, in this case, not to cuts, but to the protection of people in vulnerable situations: the social shield, the ERTE, protection against evictions, the guarantee of supplies, aid in social policies or minimum living income. We must also admit that the implementation of this new right, more in extraordinary pandemic conditions, took time, and the inefficiencies and obstacles that prevented its full deployment needed to be well observed. I believe that an important effort has been made to review and share a diagnosis with the different organisations in the third sector and professionals. Those major obstacles were identified and, thus, there have been numerous occasions when the rule regulating minimum living income has undergone some modification. Some of the requirements and the complexity of their own processing were unfortunately making it impossible to get to where it was intended and, therefore, proposed and approved different changes that made it possible to go further. The protection of people with some degree of dependence was improved; the protection of children was improved with the addition of children; the conditions for access were improved and some amounts that were not counted in the income for the living unit were eliminated, in short, some of the elements that prevented, as I say, going beyond. But this rent, we cannot forget, is a basic income, an income land for the whole territory. What means is that the autonomous communities that have competence in social services or social assistance and have approved minimum autonomous incomes must continue to assume the same responsibilities and provide their resources to compensate, improve and extend this provision according to the specific needs of each territory. In Euskadi, for example, we are on it. I believe that this is good news and we hope that it will be so: tomorrow the Joint Transfer Commission is meeting to finally seal the transfer to Euskadi of minimum living income, a transfer that will finally be as it should be, full and of an indefinite nature. In Euskadi they already charge this minimum living income about 30,000 Basques and Basques. It is true that in Euskadi we have had an RGI since 2008, but it is found that it is insufficient, that it does not protect a large part of Basques and Basques who are in a situation of vulnerability and social exclusion. All the reports tell us that Basque society is increasingly unequal. We must therefore seize this opportunity to transfer minimum living income. The proposal for a reform of the GIR must be on track to coordinate with the minimum vital income so that these two benefits, together, can increase the level of protection. We must extend social coverage more widely, we must deepen the universalization of the income system and reach segments of the population who need our help or the help of this benefit and do not yet have it. It must therefore be recognized that there is still a way to go. Much remains to be done from the point of view of cooperation between the different administrations; processing and documentation must be simplified and, of course, expanded resources and more resources must be available, and we must therefore continue to work towards a model of social protection that leaves no one behind. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u167	Thank you, President. Mrs Oramas, last week, in your inquiry, the executing arm of the star measure of Podemos, Mr Escriva, came to tell you that as you voted in favour of minimum living income, as you had no right to protest. He only failed to respect that the minimum living income has not reached the 2,300,000 people promised because of Putin or because VOX will rule in Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Because this government, instead of seeking well-being for the Spaniards, is dedicated to evangelizing with dogmas of faith, pretending that we believe that inflation close to 8%, astronomical fuel prices and the bill of light are Putin's fault or that VOX will rule in Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Because now the payrolls are hybrid: half for gasoline and half for electricity. And what worries this unworthy government is not that the Spanish have a job with decent wages, that they have a home unless they illegally leokupen, that people feel safe in their neighbourhoods or that young people have a future; this government of shame needs 21.3 billion euros in feminist policies I don't know what, which is actually 21.3 billion reasons for them to resign and leave. [[Applauds]] According to data published in December 2021, the National Social Security Institute has received more than 1 500 000 applications for minimum living income, of which 362,000 have been approved, with 824 000 beneficiaries, accounting for 35% of the 2 300 000 promised, ceasing to implement EUR 1 billion of the 3 billion budgeted. However, for feminist policies I do not know what they will provide 21.3 billion euros. [[Applauds]] And it is that the most emblematic feature of this government is to do just the opposite of what it promises and, in the case of Minister Escriva, to develop policies contrary to what he himself recommended before going to the dark side. And it must be that it has no historical memory, because when it chaired the AIReF and presented the study on minimum incomes in 2019 it stated: experience shows the complexity of developing these minimum income programmes during the crisis, since in practice the effective way to implement them is precisely to do so before the crisis takes place. An optimal design is therefore to frame the implementation of these minimum incomes into a medium-term budgetary plan, which will compensate for the structural increase in expenditure, ensure its monitoring and continuous evaluation. And, with regard to the ongoing evaluation, today the AIReF has to present this evaluation in the first half of 2022 and the only thing it finds is the refusal of the Ministry of Finance to be able to sign an agreement with the Tax Agency that allows it to access this data. The minimum living income has become a real nightmare for thousands of families, who have seen their income drastically reduced by errors in social security calculations. A benefit supposedly aimed at preventing the risk of poverty and social exclusion has become a deadly trap for families living on the threshold of begging. Mr Escrivá, Mrs Oramas, also reminded you that you voted in favour of the fifth additional provision and that because of the extraneous singularity of Navarre and the Basque Country, things have to be done in a different way, because minimum vital income requires the exchange of tax data and, since it is a competence of the outlaws, they must do so. For I remind Mr Escrivá that, in the area of information exchange and tax management between the outside finances and social security, there are several agreements which must be ignored by him, despite being published in the Official Gazette of the State. The only truth of the Government's lie is that it agreed to transfer the full management of the minimum vital income to the Basque Country so that the PNV would not present an amendment to the general budgets of 2022 in full, with the aim of ensuring that Mr Sánchez remained screwed to his chair in the Moncloa. [[Applauds]] The rest are lies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u168	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u169	In addition, the Professional Association of the Higher Body of Letters of the Social Security Administration has warned about the possible unconstitutionality of the transfer of minimum vital income to the Vasco and Navarra Country, as our social security system can be seriously affected by the break-up of the single box. The single box of Social Security and the equality of the Spaniards are protected by the Constitution, and that is above any dream, imaginary republics and nationalisms of blackmail and extortion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, pay attention, because the VOX Parliamentary Group will appeal to the Constitutional Court the Law on General Budgets of the State for 2022, among other reasons, for having broken the single Social Security box, transferring to the Basque Country and Navarre the competences on minimum living income. If I were you, I am very concerned, because you have already suffered in your own flesh the effectiveness of VOX resources. We already know the ruling of the Constitutional Court that has overturned the fascist and supremacist cord that placed in the Basque Parliament our dear AmayaMartinez, because works are love and not good reasons, and in VOX, we comply. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas, I understand from your statement that you want to put the motion to the vote on points. [[Consent]] All right, that's how it's gonna be done. Thank you very much. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. First of all, we vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Organic Penal Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 330 plus 9 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 66 plus 4 telematics votes, 70; against, 264 plus 5 telematics votes, 269.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u172	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the effective recognition of the time of service of the Social Service of Women in access to the Part-Julture Penalty. [[File number 122/00201]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u173	We proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the effective recognition of the time taken to provide social service for women in access to partial retirement pensions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 330 plus 9 telematics votes, 339; 330 plus 9 telematics votes, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-15-CD220315.u174	Consideration is given to the proposal for a law. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was eight and twenty-five minutes of the night.
