ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. Today we will address the attendance, at our own request, of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to report on the meeting of the European Council on 7 October and to report on the economic and social measures taken by the Government to respond to the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In the last debate of the state of the nation I addressed the House to explain the different energy scenarios that the government contemplated for the war in Ukraine. I warned then that one of the risks we face, perhaps the worst of them, was that Putin will cut Europe's gas altogether. And, in response to this possibility, I shared with your ladies and gentlemen that the Executive had a duty to prepare for the worst and that, therefore, we will approve an energy saving plan and also a contingency plan. Unfortunately - you know - the gas cut is a reality today, Putin - we have said it many times - has also used energy as a weapon against Europe in this war in Ukraine. And, in the face of this threat - which unfortunately has become a reality - Spain has been preparing itself over these months on various fronts: the first of them is diversifying the supply of gas; the second of them is promoting energy autonomy thanks to the development of renewable energies, energy efficiency and self-consumption; the third is approving at the beginning of August a plan that has already allowed us to save 4.6% of the electricity consumed in relation to the previous year. In short, a savings plan which is consistent with the contingency plan adopted last Tuesday in the Council of Ministers and which we will send over the next few days to Brussels. [[Rumours.-The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group enter the Chamber.-A Member of Parliament: Spain at dawn!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] Quiet, please! [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats quickly. And I pray silence so that I can continue with the appearance.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the contingency plan consists of ten axes and seventy-three measures. The first of these is the protection of the social majority of our country, the workers, the middle class. The second is to protect the most vulnerable groups. The third, more intensively deploy solar plates and self-consumption to increase our energy autonomy. The fourth, to preach with the example, that is, that public administrations and large companies lead energy saving. Fifthly, greater transparency in the bill for the light and gas that our citizens receive. The sixth and seventh are fiscal measures, which you know, and also increased funding for the productive tissue via ICO. The eighth is greater flexibility in electrical planning. The ninth is greater support for industry, with the deployment of the strategic renewable energy, green hydrogen and also storage project. Finally, more solidarity with the European Union thanks to the boost of gas and hydrogen interconnections. This contingency plan, together with the savings plan approved last August, and I would say that all the energy policy that the Spanish Government has been deploying for the past four years to this part, also has the following objectives. The first is to protect the social majority; the second is to strengthen our energy autonomy - as I said before -; the third is to be more supportive of the most vulnerable countries, because they are more exposed to Putin's energy dependence, and finally, that the responses to the energy crisis are aligned with the responses to the climate crisis. In short, we have a strategy, we are deploying it, and then I will go into the details of some of the measures included in this contingency plan. It is enough for now, ladies and gentlemen, to list the axes of action and also the principles and objectives guiding our energy policy and the response to the economic and social consequences of this war in Ukraine. If I may recall at this point that in the debate on the state of the nation I also explained that the response to the energy crisis and to the world's prices - and, in particular, logically, of our continent, Europe, which is at the forefront of the war - required two levels of action from us: the first, the level of European response, because the energy market is a regulated market at Community level; the second, the level of national responses in line with our domestic reality. Among these European responses is the so-called Iberian solution. Recently - and I would also say fortunately - the European Commission has declared that its reform road map incorporates measures such as: one, the centralised purchase of gas; two, the reform of the electricity market; three, the extension of the cap to the whole of Europe at the price of the gas generated by electricity, that is to say, the conversion of the Iberian solution into a European solution, and finally, limiting the price of buying imported gas. These are all measures that you are familiar with, because different members of the Government and I myself from this rostrum over the past few months, long before the war even began, have been proposing such actions. They have heard me say them a thousand times - if I may say it in colloquial terms - and believe me in this regard if I tell them that Spain is today, thanks to the intense work of the Executive, the most credible European country in the proposals to cushion the effects of the energy crisis in Putin. [[Applauds]] Already in Spain, the Government has been promoting a comprehensive and powerful package of measures aimed at capping inflationary effects and protecting the middle class, the working class, small and medium-sized enterprises and Spanish industry. Almost 3 points of gross domestic product in aid and tax cuts have been deployed long before the war crisis began, i.e. since September 2021. And the data show that these measures, despite all the difficulties and the complexity of the context in which we find ourselves, are working. Today, it is true, we have high inflation but below the European average. These are measures that are being approved by the vast majority of the population, they vote for what they vote for, for example, taxes on large financial institutions, on large energy institutions or, more recently, the government's announcement of a solidarity tax on large fortunes. In addition, there are more and more neighbouring governments, international financial institutions - for example, yesterday, the International Monetary Fund supports the establishment of solidarity taxes for the great fortunes, in this very complex context - and European bodies that follow the path opened up by our country. I must say that only one government has deviated from this consensus, which we could describe as social, marked by Europe, this is the British government, with disastrous consequences for its economy and with a clear risk to the evolution of the global economy. Ladies and gentlemen, European unity, the solidarity deployed by Europe and also by its allies with Ukraine on all fronts - humanitarian, financial, military - and also the strength of the economic sanctions on Putin's oligarchy allow us to say that Putin is not winning the war today, that Putin is not fulfilling his war objectives today. If he first wanted to invade Ukraine, then decapitate a legitimate and democratically elected government, such as Zelenski's, to put a puppet government, like the one that is currently suffering from Belarus, he is now retreating into the Donbas and force illegal pantomime referendums, which yesterday were rejected by more than 140 countries in the General Assembly of the United Nations and which, consequently, will never find the recognition of the international community, with the aim, all this, of hiding their military failure on the ground. The threat of the use of nuclear weapons - we must not overlook that blackmail, but we must reject it -; the discovery of graves with vilely murdered human beings - images that take us back to the horror of the war crimes that ultranationalism perpetrated in the Balkans in the 1990s and that cannot and must not go unpunished - the rape of women, children and girls by Russian troops in Ukraine; the indiscriminate bombardment that we are seeing in Kiev and other parts of Ukraine, with the sole aim of destroying, destroying, destroying for destroying, as Putin already did in Syria and also in Chechnya, or the sabotage of gas supplies that point directly to Putin, if all these atrocities occur, is the flight forward of a disordered and heartless regime. A regime, ladies and gentlemen, that has made the historical mistake that imperialism always makes and is that of underestimating the enemy, because no enemy is smaller; let them tell the Americans in Vietnam or the Russians themselves in Afghanistan. A Vladimir Putin who has been overcome by the fortress, by - I would also say - the heroicness of the Ukrainian people and by the determination of Europe and its allies to defend Ukraine's freedom. This, ladies and gentlemen, should not lead us to any misunderstandings: Spain and Europe want peace and, as this moment so desired by our societies comes, we must continue to support the aggressor in the face of the aggressor. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot choose the challenges we face on the road, but we can choose how we respond to those challenges. If during the Spanish pandemic it was placed together with science and with multilateralism to give a global and solidarity response to a global evil, such as the COVID-19 virus, in the Putin war in Ukraine Spain stands on the side of international legality, respect for national sovereignty, territorial integrity and the freedom of peoples to decide on their future. [[Applauds]] Spain stands beside the aggressor in front of the aggressor, alongside an international order that has to be based on rules so that - let's say - it does not win the strongest, where multilateralism thrives, the resolution of conflicts thanks to dialogue and not by force. In short, peace and not war, yesterday, today and forever, whether in Iraq or Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, in the economic response to the war we must also not forget the most important lessons. Let us remember how the neoliberal prescriptions of welfare cuts led to a depression for European economies, which took a decade to recover their pre-2008 levels of growth and employment; inequalities widened within and outside our borders and social unrest polarized political debate in our societies; a project as important to the well-being, security and prosperity of all as the European project was questioned and weakened. Today, on the contrary, the social response that Europe and Spain have given to the pandemic and that we are now giving to the war has been quite different: protecting the incomes of workers and also of the middle class, strengthening the welfare state and competing in quality and not in precariousness and devaluation of working conditions. All these policies can be summed up in two words, namely those of dignity and justice; dignity and justice that will make us overcome this crisis at a lower cost, leaving it more strongly, with a strengthened Europe and with legitimacy. I believe that the superiority of this social response to the crisis, in the face of the neoliberal, is so evident that so far they adopt many of these prescriptions, including conservative and liberal governments in Europe. In the West, a new consensus dominates, the social consensus, which is characterized by prioritizing collaboration in the face of competition, collective interest in the face of individuals, public-private collaboration in the face of the enormous challenge of green and digital reindustrialization of our economies, and the commitment to the development of a welfare state to give security and prosperity to our societies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that Spain has not been a mere spectator in the construction of this social consensus, on the contrary, we have been actively involved in its creation; we have fought - I would say with a party - in Brussels to prevent Europe from repeating the mistakes that were made a decade ago during the financial crisis; we have fought for a bold, collective, social and solidarity response to this crisis this time; we have made our case and they have listened to us. Proof of this was the European funds, the Next Generation funds, which are bringing to our economy €70 billion over the next few years to, on the one hand, make a countercyclical effect at a time of economic uncertainty such as the current one, and, on the other hand, to modernise our economy and reindustrialization in full ecological transition and digital transformation. Proof of this has also been the so-called Iberian solution, a measure which has already saved our consumers EUR 28 billion, 15%, and which many European governments are calling for in their countries; more, as I said earlier, the European Commission itself is already proposing to extend the Iberian solution to the European solution. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Iberian solution - which the conservative bench called the Iberian thyme - had last week the recognition in the European Commission of governments of all political signs, whether they are social democrats, liberals and conservatives. With regard to the need to extend the Iberian solution to the European solution, if there is any evidence, it is the blindness and negationism of an opposition that has only been dedicated during this legislature, with the pandemic first and now with the war, to harass and try to overthrow the Government and not to help its country in two of the most critical moments of recent Spanish history. [[Applauds]] As you know, we have been defending the reform of the electricity market for over a year, many months before Putin invaded Ukraine. We were pioneers in Europe; we were able to see it at the last extraordinary Council in Prague last week, also yesterday, at the Energy Ministers' Council in Prague, and we will probably see it at the next ordinary European Council in Brussels at the end of the month. Allow me a date, ladies and gentlemen. I open quotes: 'We have to turn off the dominant influence of gas on the price of electricity. To this end, we will be carrying out a thorough and comprehensive reform of the electricity market.' I'm closing Comillas. These words, ladies and gentlemen, I have not said them, none of the members of this government have said them, said the President of the Commission, Mrs Von der Leyen, in the debate on the state of the Union before the European Parliament on 14 September. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are achieving something important, with great difficulty and in an economic context as complex as the result of this war, and it is that Europe leads a social response to this energy crisis; and, above all, we are giving it ourselves, preaching by example within our borders. In recent months, the Executive has promoted one of the European Union's most ambitious shock plans to deal with the effects of inflation, not only to alleviate the effects of inflation on the real economy - which would already be important - on the middle class, workers, industry or businesses, but also to help effectively control the rise in prices faced by all countries and, in particular, the Member States of the European Union, which are the most directly affected by this war. We have already mobilised more than EUR 35 billion by the end of the year, representing almost 3% of our gross domestic product in direct aid, in selective tax cuts to protect people with. More than a million and a half fertilizers have already been emitted from nearby, medium-distance rolling stock, and it is possible to reach two million at the end of this year. To understand the benefits of the 100 per cent subsidy on public transport, free public transport, which we propose in the draft State General Budgets to extend until December 2023, I share with you only two examples. First, global saving on gasoline and emissions, 118 million litres of fuel and 360,000 tons of CO2 less in the air we breathe. Secondly, what this measure represents for a person with a payroll - let's put - of 1500 euros per month and who travels daily by public transport. Only the monthly savings resulting from the free public transport allows to cushion about half of the impact of inflation on your pocket. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we are not talking about abstractions, we are talking about measures with a real and positive impact on the day-to-day lives of people on foot, aid that we are also giving to the agricultural sector, to the transport sector, to small and medium-sized enterprises with intensive gas consumption. We are talking about the limitation of the price of butane, which is so important for many families in our country. We are also talking about the limitation of the rent increase, the 20 cents discount on fuel. In short, we are talking about protecting people and contributing decisively to curbing the price rise caused by the Putin war. We talk about the supplement of 100 euros in scholarships so that our students can continue their studies at the university, who already reach a million young people who have a scholarship for this school year. We are talking about additional supplements for income from work below EUR 14,000 or from beneficiaries of minimum living income, to which we have increased this income by 15%. We are talking about the reduction in VAT on gas, electricity, other taxes, which results in an 80% reduction in invoice taxes for 23 million domestic electricity consumers, and for 7.5 million gas consumers. In total, ladies and gentlemen, the effort we are making is so extraordinary that it represents EUR 10 billion in tax savings. We are also talking about two million households benefiting from the electric social bonus to pay for electricity and heating receipts. Our commitment, ladies and gentlemen, to those most in need of public support has enabled us not to increase the bills of the most vulnerable groups in the price crisis. Vulnerable consumers receiving the social bonus have been able to check how their bill in August 2022 is the same as that recorded between January and June 2021, i.e. before the energy price crisis. But we're going to go beyond that. That is why he announced to them a new package of measures that will strengthen the protection of citizens and that we will adopt at the Council of Ministers next Tuesday. [[Applauds]] Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to strengthen the electrical social bonus, benefiting 1 300 000 households; we are going to increase the amount of energy eligible for a discount by 15% and increase the discount rate from 65% to 80% for vulnerable and severely vulnerable, respectively. Secondly, we will temporarily create a new category of electric consumers entitled to a 40% discount on their bills for those low-income workers' homes, and with that we will come to protect one and a half million additional homes. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, we will strengthen the thermal social bonus in the years 2022 and 2023 for vulnerable households, doubling the budget in both years. What will allow us this? It will allow us to raise the minimum aid amount to EUR 40, the equivalent - so that we can get an idea - to the cost of two butane candy, and to double the average aid amount to around EUR 375/home. Finally, a very important measure for natural gas, heating and hot water costs of 1 700 000 households in our country with Community gas boilers. We will extend the protection already granted by regulated tariffs to households that form part of neighbourhood communities with centralized heating of natural gas, creating a new regulated tariff so that the quarterly increase in prices is limited until the end of 2023. [[last resort rates 1, 2 and 3]] [[applause]] With this measure, ladies and gentlemen, about 1 700 000 households will benefit from a reduction of more than half of their receipts from what they would pay on the market with current offers. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to mobilise about EUR 3 billion more from the State's General Budgets to protect people from rising energy prices. These measures will, as a whole, protect 40% of our country's households. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot avoid the Putin war in Ukraine, nor can we totally avoid the economic consequences and implications of this war in Ukraine, cannot do so by this or by any government in the world, but we can, to the extent of our possibilities, cushion the economic impact of the Putin war on the social majority of the country and on the most vulnerable groups. We are doing this, ladies and gentlemen, and, as I have said on many occasions since this war began, we will continue to do so until the war is over. Madam President, the protection of the middle class and the workers, the families, the self-employed, the industries, the businesses, especially the most vulnerable domestic consumers and the most vulnerable groups, has always been the priority of the Spanish Government. Today, almost a hundred days after announcing the implementation of these measures in the House - I mentioned some of them earlier - we can make an objective first assessment, with data, of their real impact. A week ago, for example, we were aware of the data on harmonised inflation in Europe for the month of September. Spain - it is true - has an unusually high inflation, but below the European average. For the first time for quite a few months now, underlying inflation is falling and, despite the high figure, developments point to a gradual moderation in prices, which should be consolidated in the remainder of the year. These are data that do not invite self-congratulation, ladies and gentlemen, but invite us to redouble our efforts in the direction taken to protect the incomes of the social majority of our country and to make progress in the reforms that make us stronger, more resilient in energy autonomy. It is true that much remains to be done to mitigate the effects of rising prices where it matters most, which is on the real economy, on the day-to-day lives of households and businesses and workers. I know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that no speech serves to pay the bills and that it is difficult to face a reality marked by resignations and sacrifices, especially after having overcome a pandemic like the one we are overcoming in the world and also in Spain. I can't set a date for the end of this damn war, I wish it were today or tomorrow, but I can promise that every day the Executive works to mitigate its effects, to cushion the damage to the Spanish. We're going to keep working, we're going to keep transforming, we're going to keep protecting the middle class and the working class, unlike what other governments of different signs did during the financial crisis, which was just using that crisis to impose a liberal agenda of saving anyone. We live in complex times, no doubt, but I am sure that sooner or later we will also overcome this test, as we overcome the pandemic, with unity, determination and solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, I said before that we cannot forget the lessons of the pandemic. I will not forget them as long as I have the honour of being President of the Government, I will always remember that we entered the VOCID-19 pandemic, the worst health crisis in the last hundred years of mankind's history, with just over 4000 UCI beds, while Germany had 28 000 UCI beds, and that we had to face the tragedy and drama of the VOCID-19 with 30,000 less health professionals than we had a decade ago. I cannot forget that one of the worst hangovers left by the pandemic is a silent wave that extends throughout our country: mental illnesses, to which we have to respond. All these needs must be met and for that we need economic resources, we need public revenue, we need taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, what a hypocrisy the hypocrisy of those who during the pandemic called for more state and now that we have overcome it demand less state! [[Applauds]] In its media platforms, in its political terminals - we will see it also in this debate - the virtues of having a weak state are defended again. They try to sell us how much better it is that the citizens have the money in their pocket and not in the pocket of a state that, according to their words, is literally lining up; hell calls it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us develop the argument. Whoever says that money is better in the citizens' pocket is also telling us that solutions are better in the citizens' pocket. We are not talking about abstractions but about realities, and I will give you some examples. A heart transplant costs in Spain, thanks to our free and universal public system, just over 90 000 euros while in the United States, with a private system, the world's first economy, a heart transplant costs more than a million and a half dollars. Thanks to our welfare state the Spaniards are mortgaged for buying a car or a house, but never for having a cancer treatment. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, hell would have to be mortgaged and ruined, as is the case in other countries, to cure a serious disease. That's hell, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The truth is, we get more than we pay with our taxes. Therefore, I would like to thank all our public servants: those who defend our homes against fire or floods; those who heal us; those who care for our loved ones when they become ill; those who educate our children; those who protect our streets; those who investigate new scientific remedies, or those who guarantee our security in our streets and our borders. [[applause]] I would like to thank all those who make reality, with their daily efforts, the welfare state that protects us and cohesives our society. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]] Thank you. Some do not think they are alluded to, it must be because they try to confront, as we have seen in many of their media and political forums, the private sector against the public sector. [[laughs]] And they are wrong, ladies and gentlemen, because by making this recognition to our public servants, whom our welfare state raises every day thanks to their work, I do not fail to recognize the value of the private sector for the prosperity of our country. They and they, workers and entrepreneurs, are the ones who see the UME taking care of their drowned streets, they are the ones who see the healthcare professionals taking ambulances to their homes to take care of a sick family member or pick up our children when we leave them at a public school. All are essential, also those who make reality with their work, I insist, our welfare state. [[Rumors.-Mr. Casero Ávila utters words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen, they ask for many appearances, but then they hear nothing of what we say. [[Applauds]] I do hear what you say, of course I do, even your insults. [[laughs]] Some say... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u6	Some say that if he comes to power he's going to do an audit of accounts because the government's accounts are not created. [[Rumors]] Indeed, it is you who have been alluded to. They forget, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a general intervention by the State, that public accounts are scrutinized annually by Brussels and that, as a result of the rescue to the financial sector that we had to pay the Spaniards, when you ruled, an independent institution, the AIReF, was created, which also scrutinizes public accounts in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a serious country. What those who say these things claim is to make excuses, as they did in 2011 - do they remember?-, to cover up their false fiscal promises to lower the VAT of the chuches - do they remember?-, for if they get to the government to raise all taxes to the middle and working class, to approve tax amnesties to the great defrauders as they did and to cut the welfare state. [[Applauds]] The result is already known: they depressed the economy, went up unemployment, raised the public deficit and the public debt, and widened the inequality between Spaniards and also the territorial imbalances in our country. In this, as in many other things, the recipes of Feijóo are the same as those of Rajoy: a return to the past, to the worst of our past, which are precariousness and inequality in our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is what model of society we want. Do we want a cohesive society or do we want a more unequal society? Who do we want to look like and what are we willing to sacrifice? Do we want to have a good health system with enough ICU beds in the face of a health emergency like the one we suffered in 2020 or not? Do we want a weak system complementary to private insurance that will never cover the most expensive therapies, as you know in other countries? Do we want prudential times for a medical test that can make the difference between life and death, or do we normally accept that a few meters from where we are debating the Autonomous Health Administration is making appointments for a colonoscopy within a year? To me, ladies and gentlemen, the disjunctive is clear. [[Rumors.-Mr. Casero Ávila utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u8	What you're talking about and what you're wrong about. [[Laughter and applause]] The disjunctive is clear. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u9	Mrs. Beltrán, silence, please. Mrs. Angulo, silence. Mrs. Gálvez, you too be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is clear. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u11	Mrs. Riolobos Regadera...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u12	Mrs Gamarra, what is a Member still doing in your parliamentary group for whom the Supreme Court has requested a plea? [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u14	The disjunctive is clear. There are two options: to strengthen or weaken the welfare state. The answer is available to us, the evidence from the data tells us that societies with strong welfare states are prospering at a better pace. Here are the cases of France, Germany, Sweden or Denmark. That is what I want for my country, ladies and gentlemen, a European Spain with a European welfare state. And a welfare state of first division demands a tax system of first division, not of third region. The most direct way to dismantle the welfare state is to question the economic foundations that support it. This is, for example, what the financial markets understood when they recognized the seriousness of the tax proposal adopted by the British Conservative Government. A proposal that put at risk not only the sustainability of the already very impoverished public services in the UK, but also the public accounts themselves, and that were publicly praised by Spanish public officials who, yes, were muted within a few days, when the fiasco caused was verified. That is why we have proposed new taxes for the big energy companies, the big financial companies and the big fortunes. And allow me a new quote at this point - I open quotes -: 'We propose to limit the revenues of companies producing electricity at low cost. These companies are getting income that they didn't have, that they didn't even dream about. ... It cannot be that some get extraordinary and unprecedented benefits from war and at the expense of consumers. At the moment - concludes this quote - the benefits must be shared and channeled to those who need it most - I close quotes -'. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a car, nor is it the case of any spokesman for the Government of Spain. Again, it is a quote from the President of the European Commission, Mrs Von der Leyen, in the debate on the state of the Union which took place on 14 September in the European Parliament. [[Applauds]] In any case, I understand that this is familiar to you, because it is the same thing that the Spanish Government has been proposing and doing for months. When institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, such as the OECD, the European Central Bank or the European Commission itself agree on the path of fiscal justice and social justice, as well as wisdom, one has to ask who is going in the opposite direction or giving bandages and, above all, why. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: what do those who, precisely now, in this difficult context, prefer to fill the pockets of the second most wealthy? What interest is behind a proposal that no one shares in Spain? The only possible response can be to return to the burden and dismantle the welfare state with neoliberal proposals and, worse, outside the European social consensus, consciously ignoring the lessons learned from the pandemic. A social consensus that defends selective tax cuts to the incomes most exposed to the crisis, as the Spanish Government is doing, and that calls for an effort from those who can afford it most, who can afford it most. That's called tax justice, ladies and gentlemen. Although these words cause rashes on some bench, the Executive is not going to deviate even a millimeter from its true goal: that the cost of this crisis does not fall again on the middle class and on the workers, as it did on the answer given to the financial crisis. [[Applauds]] This statement rests also on a crushing logic that, fortunately, many more people than some believe naturally accept. In particular, I am referring to those who enjoy a loose economic position because they have been successful in business and in life and assume the civic duty to hold their shoulders, to contribute exceptionally to an exceptional situation, as the International Monetary Fund said yesterday. There is a huge flow of civic patriotism in that attitude that I will always recognize today as an example to follow. There are many examples of wealthy people who contribute naturally and society owes them that recognition of gratitude, because they have done nothing wrong for being successful in business. On the contrary, they have contributed to generating wealth and now again contribute to the social good by sharing part of their own wealth. Therefore, those who measure fiscal justice according to what they receive from the State are wrong. Those who measure the contribution with a spreadsheet are wrong, pointing out what they pay and crying out for what little they receive. First of all, because it's fake, as I've shown before. The vast majority of taxpayers receive much more from the welfare state than they do from their taxes. And secondly, because we are all beneficiaries of something that defines us as a country: street safety, road cleaning, public health, public education, quality infrastructure, culture or defence, and of something more important, the enormous benefit of living in a cohesive society. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that does not happen when social differences become insurmountable and there is an insurmountable wall that separates the lives of the most powerful from the rest of society. We have seen it in many other latitudes not so far from our country. That invisible net is there to protect us, to help us get up when we fall and to take care of ourselves in the face of adversity. This invisible network distinguishes developed countries from failed societies. That invisible network is on which all the progress and well-being of the past four decades have been built in our country, and we must protect and finance it. Ladies and gentlemen, this brings us to the debate on inequality because there is wealth and, unfortunately, there is poverty. We know this well in Spain where, according to the National Institute of Statistics, 27.8% of our population is at risk of poverty. We know that well when we see that two million children suffer child poverty in our country. Hence, for example, we have adopted a vital minimum income that focuses, above all, on the welfare of our children and adolescents. Unfortunately, there is inequality. This is not an old debate, as some claim, it is a rabid debate today. It is a debate in which we must name that reality in order to make it visible and, consequently, to act. The evidence places Spain with a task yet to be completed, that of reducing the multiple gaps of inequality that go through it: the social, gender, territorial and intergenerational divide. The response to the neoliberal financial crisis aggravated inequality, while the protection of income, for example, that we deployed in a situation as dramatic as the pandemic, contained 80 per cent of the inequality that this health crisis would have caused in our country. What do I mean by that, ladies and gentlemen? That the best way to stop talking about inequality and poverty is to end inequality and poverty, and therefore to mention them, make them visible and not hide them, as some claim. [[Applauds]] Ultimately, this and not another is the goal of the progressive coalition government that I am honoured to preside over: to continue to transform Spain to better, to combat poverty, to reduce the tearing inequalities, to ensure a decent standard of living for most citizens with decent jobs, with decent wages, with decent housing, with quality health care and with quality education. That is the objective to which the General Budgets of the State which we approved in the Council of Ministers, which brought the Minister of Finance and Public Service to this House, and for which I would like to call for the maximum parliamentary support of the groups in this House. These accounts - which are the third ones that we present in time and form - are the accounting reflection of the Government's three major priorities throughout this legislature: the first, as I said before, is to fight against inequality; the second, to protect the middle class and the working class; and the third, to continue to advance in the modernization of our country to become a more competitive and sustainable economy. All this while we continue to make progress in consolidating our public accounts and reducing public debt. Let me make this clear in four large blocs, which I believe bring to the case precisely because of the economic situation and the context of war in which we are in. Firstly, there will be more social cohesion. We have allocated 58.5% of the total budget to protect the middle class, and the workers of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this unprecedented effort in the history of Spain not only covers the revaluation of pensions under the CPI, but also for the first time in thirteen years - I repeat, for the first time in thirteen years - the contribution of almost EUR 3 billion to the pension fund, thanks to the intergenerational equity mechanism. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we are protecting today's pensioners, but we are also filling the hatch for tomorrow's retirements. We also protect the National Health System with an increase of 6.7% in spending on infrastructure in primary care and mental health. You know that over the last few years we have invested and much in new tools, in new machinery precisely for hospital care and now we want to focus on primary care and mental health. We also protect the National Unit System, reversing the cuts that the previous Conservative Administration made in it, bringing it to a historical maximum of endowment, with an additional allocation of 600 million euros, that is, an increase of 151% of the amount planned regarding the year 2018, which were the last budgets of the People's Party in the Government. Secondly, progress is being made in modernising our productive fabric and infrastructure. There are 11.8 billion euros in public investment and the channelling of more than 28 billion euros from the European funds for the modernization of our country, with 12.6 billion euros destined for resilient infrastructures and ecosystems to advance towards a green economy that answers the enormous challenge we face, which is to alleviate the effects of the climate emergency. With the consolidation of the bonuses, the free transport for next year, the commitment to sustainable mobility that this measure represents, I think we are opening the door to a very interesting debate and it is how we can, from all administrations, contribute to promoting public transport to the detriment of private transport. We are also making a historic increase of almost 23% in R & D+i, strengthening the SME envelope with EUR 3 billion and EUR 600 million for the Productive Investment Support Fund. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, together with social cohesion and infrastructure, territorial cohesion. You know that at the beginning of the legislature we are presenting a plan to combat depopulation, because of the demographic challenge. It seems to me that there are 130 measures; there are 100 which we have already implemented. Territorial cohesion in the State General Budgets shows a 24% increase in autonomous financing. This is important because, beyond what some - or some - say, what is clear is that we are going to exceed EUR 135 billion, i.e. a substantial increase in the financing of the autonomous communities for the pillars of the welfare state that are in their hands - health, education and also, logically, social policies - and 5% of local funding, with more than EUR 11 billion more than the 2022 figures. I will be allowed to make another important announcement at this point. We will be deploying operating aid in the three provinces with the lowest population density. I am referring to Soria, Teruel and Cuenca which, as you know, were included by the European Commission in the new regional aid map. [[Applauds]] This new aid will allow us to reduce business contributions in existing indefinite contracts and in the new indefinite contracts that are signed. We are therefore going to strengthen the productive fabric, creating new opportunities in these small municipalities, because after all, ladies and gentlemen, depopulation is not an irreversible phenomenon and is not a problem without a solution. The aim is to ensure decent jobs and quality public services throughout the territory. That is the commitment and commitment of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth commitment to which I would also like to refer from the General Budgets of the State is the commitment to the young people of our country. These accounts increase educational investment by 6.6% - 60% more than we found when we arrived at the government - with a strengthening of scholarship policies to reach the unprecedented figure in the history of our democracy of almost EUR 25 billion. They advance in the effectiveness of the right to access to housing, with an allocation of €3.5 billion to consolidate the young rental voucher and specific measures for accessible rentals. On this last point let me make a point. There is no Government in the history of Spain that has ever presented accounts with such a level of budgetary commitment for the young people of our country. And these are not opinions, they are data, they are figures. Never. [[Applauds]] We are aware of the difficulties faced by young people in many areas: in access to housing, in employment, in the quality of housing, and consequently in the difficulty of emancipation, or the difficulties they are now having in continuing their studies because of rising prices. What I am not going to admit is that retirees are blamed for this because this Government decides to revalue their pensions, as the right wing claims. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not in the dignity of a pension; the problem is in the indignity of the salary that many young workers receive. [[Applauds]] Therefore, confronting generations, trying to confront grandparents and their grandchildren, does not lead anywhere, and it is often a pretext to oppose the usual, which is to revalue pensions. If it is against the revaluation of pensions to ten million citizens, of whom six out of ten are paid less than 1000 euros, it is said head-on and without rodeos, but not using young people as an alibi. Finally, there are all the arguments in this debate, but it is disqualified who opposes the rise of pensions after having opposed the rise of the inter-professional minimum wage, having opposed the labour reform - which has fallen to historical minimums, which we have not seen since 1987 in our country - which gives job stability to young people and reduces the precariousness, or after having also opposed the young cultural bonus, the increase of scholarships or the aid for young rent. [[Rumors]] The problems of young people are not in the pockets of their grandparents, but in having consolidated an economic model of precariousness and wage devaluation which is what we intend to reverse. [[Applauds]] That's the problem of a young man today and not his grandfather's pension. The pension system, ladies and gentlemen, is the vault key of our welfare state. Pensions have been the sustenance of whole families at the harshest moments of the financial crisis and are the expression of a great longing: intergenerational justice. That's why the Pension Revaluation Index, eliminated today, had such a harmful impact. Let's say things as they are. Can you imagine the social consequences? Can you imagine where the retirees would be, if not on the street, if that system were in place today? Can you imagine an increase of EUR 2 per month in this context of rising prices? That would be the increase of a pension of 800 euros, ladies and gentlemen, below which is half of all pensions paid in our country. Therefore, let us not be mistaken and say the data as they are. Today the ratio between contributors and pensioners is 2.37, that is, the highest figure in the last decade and much higher than in 2018, when we arrived at the government. Last year, the social security deficit was reduced, falling below 1% for the first time since 2013, and for the first time in thirteen years this government is going to fill the pension hole again. [[Applauds]] Income from contributions is growing because today in Spain there are more than 20 million people on high in increasingly stable jobs, thanks to labour reform and with remarkable growth in high-skilled and therefore higher-wage sectors. We have accumulated seventeen consecutive months of employment growth and almost 400,000 new members in the coming year, with an increase of 258% - I repeat, 258% - in indefinite contracts since the entry into force of the labour reform. That is a structural change for the benefit of our country's citizens as a whole. With this data I believe it is time for some to update their arguments and stop prophesying the disaster. Because a decent public pension system is not only a justice system but also a viable one. It is possible to have decent pensions, ladies and gentlemen; it is possible to guarantee the maintenance of purchasing power and also to continue to make progress in the reforms necessary to ensure the sustainability of the system. And, by the way, to those who link the rise of pensions with a supposed electoralist eagerness... [[Rumors]] Indeed, you. It's all right to be alluded to again. I want to tell you that this is an insulting statement, not for the government, but for the citizens and in particular for the pensioners. [[Applauds]] Because there are ten million pensioners in our country and not just one of them and one of them, who votes and thinks what he thinks, deserves to be disrespected by assuming that his sense of the vote will change by an increase in the pension. It is simply intolerable that a barbarity like this can be sustained today, which denotes two things, ladies and gentlemen, which, by the way, always occur with the right: classism and pride in equal parts. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, you have concluded. [[Rumors]] Yes, I know, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for them to hear the truths of the boatman, at least the truths of the progressive bench. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, like the rest of the countries of the Union, we are faced with a challenge of enormous proportions, marked by something that no one could imagine, what a war is like in Europe; a conflict that causes serious economic imbalances, the threat of the prosperity of entire societies, the risk that there will be nearly 400 million people on our planet at risk of hunger. And, therefore, today, more than ever, it is time for action, it is time for fair sharing of burdens and sacrifices, and it is also time to deploy all the public policies necessary to protect citizens. And it is also time to continue to transform and modernize our country. I will not deny the entity of the challenge or lose a second in adorning a complex reality, I have not done so with the pandemic nor am I doing so now, from the beginning of the war. The problems are in sight, the Spanish are suffering, and that is our great challenge and our great commitment. But we need to know that Spain today has a much stronger base to deal with any scenario. Our labour market, as I said before, creates jobs and does so with vigour and quality. We will close this year by leading growth in the euro area, with a growth rate that will exceed 4.4% of gross domestic product. And it is true that there is going to be a context of slowing down the global economy, also the European economy and, consequently, the Spanish economy, but that growth path for the year 2023, in a context as complex as the one we are living in, will allow us to bypass the recession that is already facing very important economies in Europe. We are growing, and we are going to do so, with a path of fiscal consolidation that aims, by 2025, to put our public deficit below 3% and public debt below 110% of gross domestic product. Therefore, from the utmost prudence, these are data that invite us to collective self-esteem and of course not to complacency. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Spain has a government that faces this crisis, as we also did with the pandemic, opts for the progressive response, if I may say so for my party and my Social Democratic parliamentary group as well. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ooooh!]] I say this with pride, ladies and gentlemen; I say this with pride because that ideal is guiding the policies of the Government. And we also affirm that the opposite path, which is the neoliberal path, failed in the previous crisis, created a great deal of suffering and will again lead to the failure of those who go through it, as we have just seen in the United Kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, 12 October, National Day, while listening to our Armed Forces say 'Long live Spain', I thought that today more than ever, 'Long live Spain', that is 'Long live Europe', because the constitutional Spain that we defend, the democratic, diverse and plural Spain, which consolidates and advances in rights and freedoms that represented the 1978 pact, is the Europe of democracy and peace, rights and freedoms, today threatened by Putin's authoritarianism. These are undoubtedly complex times, ladies and gentlemen, but unlike other moments in our history, Spain knows where it is. It is on the side of democracy, peace, the dignity of peoples and international legality, it is on the side of the social response to the enormous challenges we face. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if I ask all the parliamentary groups to do something about it, it is that we protect our other homeland, which is Europe, among all of us, because by protecting Europe, ladies and gentlemen, we will protect Spain and the Spanish. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Firstly, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, from this Chamber, the temple of the democracy of the Spaniards, I want my first words today to be of appreciation to the heroic people of Ukraine, who have been defending the freedoms of all Europeans since 24 February. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you are trapped in your way of understanding and exercising politics, it was seen yesterday by all the Spaniards, but we were able to live it today also in this Chamber. Your nervousness, Mr President, has denounced you, and you will allow me not to allow you to give any lessons to this parliamentary group, and I will tell you why. Because whoever has two presidents of the Socialist Party condemned for the biggest corruption case in the history of democracy is not to give lessons. [[Applauds]] Who is the secretary general of a party that is collecting signatures to pardon two presidents of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party is not to give lessons. [[The applause continues]] And if you want to teach any lessons, say here publicly today, He will not pardon them. Spanish society expects it. And from there, you can give some lessons. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo! Bravo!]] As head of the opposition, his maxim was always the 'no is no'. Thus, he decided never to agree with the People's Party and, already in the Government, whoever was his partner, Mr Rubalcaba, he described it well and already anticipated what the Frankenstein Government would be. It forgets something that is fundamental, and that is that the situation we are experiencing requires a Government to act in the light of the present, but to govern responsibly, thinking that the decisions that are made today will affect the next generations. Therefore, the balance of its management is clear and summarized in the answers to two questions. The first is: will you, as president, leave a better country than the one you found? [[Several Members: Nooo]] And the answer is no. The second of the questions is: Do the young Spaniards believe today that they expect a better future than their parents? [[Several Members: Nooo]] And the answer is that neither. That's the key. Today, the Spaniards are much worse than five years ago in political, social and economic terms, and we will be much worse in a year if you continue to rule. The same division that is consubstantial to your Government is that which you are committed to moving, with your way of governing, to Spanish society, and the same lack of sense of reality is that which involves all your decisions, and I will give you an example. While the Spaniards have lost 22 % purchasing power since you ruled, however, the salary has been raised five times to 11 %. But not only that, it is that in the years you are ruling, you have put on the backs of all a slab of 144 million euros, which are more high-ranking salaries of your twenty-two ministries. I mean, a government never cost that much, Mr Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, we are much worse off in politics. Institutional degradation has no limits, like you. It has degraded the CNI, the INE, the CIS, the CNMC, the CNMV, the Prosecutor's Office, the General Council of the Judiciary... The penultimate chapter is what happened with Spanish Radiotelevision. First, it makes the president resign to control the entity in the face of the upcoming elections, of course, and changes the rules so that the interim president can now have all the functions that, as an interim, she cannot have. It is curious, because it acts in the opposite direction than with the General Council of the Judiciary. And now we will be very careful to see what you are up to in relation to the Council of State in view of the latest movements. Doesn't that sound like a misconception to you, Mr. Sanchez? Most Spaniards, yes. Because to govern is to respect the independence of institutions, not to take them to assault, which is what you do. We are, moreover, much worse in economic terms. Your accounts don't fit. They have changed their growth forecasts, which they presented in July, September and October and, in addition, both the AIReF and the Bank of Spain or the International Monetary Fund have told him that their forecasts in their budgets are unrealistic. But this is not new, because this is what has been happening since 2018. Mr Sánchez, while the whole of Europe has regained its pre-pandemic GDP level, Spain is the last European in recovery. And, unfortunately, everything indicates that we will not reach those levels until the end of 2023 or even early 2024. And if some countries managed to do it in two years, why will we have to do it in four with you? Can you give that answer to the young Spaniards? All of this despite the fact that you have had all the instruments imaginable to drive reforms. What about European funds? They're not reaching families and businesses. Europe fulfills, the funds arrive in Spain, but the one that does not do it is you with the Spaniards. Therefore, it mismanages or does not tell the truth or, even worse, both things at once. [[Applauds]] Being in the tail van of the recovery, you are unable to reverse the three negative dynamics that burden our economy: high inflation, low growth and unorthodox public debt. Instead of using budgets to correct the situation, what he is doing is using them for the opposite; he is confusing the welfare state with the welfare of the State or, rather, the welfare of his Government. Because the welfare state defends itself, it does not put itself at risk. Between making it sustainable and spending as if there wasn't a tomorrow, you chose the second. What is social about leaving EUR 300 billion more in public debt to our children and grandchildren as an inheritance? What's gonna happen to us when the tax rules stop being suspended? Is that the intergenerational justice to which he refers? [[Applauds]] The welfare state defends itself with economic growth to finance it, that is, generating virtuous circles, not vicious circles. The welfare state defends itself with good management, but, of course, good management involves hours of study and work in offices and you are much more focused on hours for documentary series. To hide this reality, you have decided to dedust the class struggle in twenty-first century Spain, but you are mistaken as an adversary, because it is not about ending wealth, but about ending poverty. Meanwhile, what we have experienced in fiscal matters in recent weeks is a new episode of his Government's spiral of inefficiency, ranging from confusion to improvisation. That is so, going through the attack on any proposal that comes from the People's Party, even if it is raised uniquely and exclusively to help and support Spanish society. What happened is that you saw that you were losing the tax debate, that your own men have shown you, that they have decided to follow the path set by the People's Party; and what you wanted is to cheat on the terms of the discussion. Mr Sánchez, weakly favors the social cohesion that you have spoken of both when you promote a polarization discourse and when you promote a policy that seeks guilty but does not give solutions or when you promote a rhetoric that only seeks to confront one another. That's not social cohesion. [[Applauds]] It is beyond any doubt that he must pay more for the one he has most, that is not the debate. The debate is whether it is good to raise taxes when citizens and families have less disposable income. You already carry twenty-seven tax increases. The debate is whether it is opportune for the most expensive and extensive government of democracy to impose even more burdens on citizens when more sacrifices are being made, but you do not make any. If people have less we cannot ask them more, when they are already paying more as a result of inflation. You said recently that fiscal justice is that everyone contributes according to their ability, indeed, Mr Sánchez, then can you explain to the Spaniards why it requires them to pay more when they have less capacity? More collection for the Government is less money available for families to arrive at the end of the month. It is not only common sense, it is also social sensitivity, which you lack, and as long as you do not update the income tax on all middle classes and working income, already, what you are doing is taking advantage of the rise in taxes that de facto results from inflation. It seems that twenty-seven tax increases and an over-collection of EUR 27 billion do not seem sufficient to him and he hopes to continue to raise taxes. It refuses to lower the VAT on basic products in the shopping basket from 10 % to 4 %, refuses to adjust the IRPF for rents up to €40,000 and refuses to extend beyond 31 December the fall in VAT on electricity and gas. We thought these were the ads you could make today. I ask you: who wins, citizens or the government? You or the people, Mr. Sanchez? [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: The Government]] Because more collection for the government is more decision-making power for you and less decision-making power for citizens about their own lives. There's the key to your policy. [[Applauds]] You, too, equate tax collection with public services, you have done it again today, but your own management denies it. They have increased public spending by 41% since 2018. Where are the compensations for the citizens? 41%, Mr Sánchez. What we have seen has been a lot of propaganda and a lot of electoralism, there are the keys. The welfare state is not only a matter of collection; this simplification is not proper to a responsible ruler, not even a responsible socialist. Look at Portugal, there you could take an example. The welfare state does not determine what measures are announced or what public expenditure is approved, but the results and their measures do not work. Today in Spain there are more Spaniards in poverty and at risk of exclusion than when you came to the government, says the INE, although it has changed its director; there has been an increase of 400,000 people in just one year. Today in Spain the middle classes are suffocated; salaries have lost 22 % of purchasing power, the shopping basket has increased by 15 % and mortgages have been fired. But you consider that all those who have an income of more than 21,000 euros are rich, who are being denied any tax adjustment. By the way, Mr Sánchez, today in Spain, the World Day of Metastatic Breast Cancer is celebrated and, as you have given us many lessons on the state of well-being and health, I encourage you to read an interview that is published in a newspaper in El Mundo, in which the president of that association asks you: how much is the life of a woman with cancer worth? This is what these women are telling you today and what they are asking you to do is to speed up the funding of innovative drugs already approved by the European Union by the National Health System. [[Applause.- Mr President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Of course]] You say yes with your head, but you vote no, and you fail to comply with a resolution from the debate on the state of the nation. Today is a good day for you to rectify and prove that you are able to do so. [[Applauds]] In Spain, unemployment has been increasing for three months, even in July, a month traditionally of strong recruitment, and its only proposal has been what? To increase the contributions by 8.6%, a pure misconception, in addition to behind the back of the social dialogue, and it is putting at the limit of the self-employed and SMEs. Mr Sánchez, stop talking about pensions, because I want to remind you that you voted in May 2010 to freeze pensions for pensioners in our country. [[Applauds]] Yes, in May 2010; Rodriguez Zapatero ruled, you were Congressman Sánchez, and Congressman Sánchez voted for the freezing of pensions and the lowering of civil servants' salaries. So don't want to give lessons because it was you. [[The applause continues]] Pensions need to be secured through reforms by creating stable and high-quality employment. And of course it is necessary and just to be revalued, because our pensioners do not have to pay for the broken dishes of their disastrous economic policy. Those broken dishes will have to be paid for by you and your government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European Council, which was also mentioned in this appearance, focused, among other things, on energy. Mr Sánchez, how can you present your energy policy as a success if last year, months before Putin's war, the price of light had already shot 25.7 % above what it had in 2018? And there was no war. Because the origin of the problem in the energy crisis in our country is its energy policies; that is the origin. [[Applauds]] What was your first decision? To renounce the interconnection with France, and therefore to renounce the funding offered to it by the European Union. Your drama is that the hemerotheques exist, Mr. Sánchez, and that's where you're portrayed. We support you to recover the lost time and convince France to resume gas interconnections, also expanding to hydrogen. All this adds to his diplomatic clumsiness. Not only do we have practically broken diplomatic relations with Algeria and closed one of the pipelines, but the review of gas contracts with Spain has been carried out. As the chairman of one of the supply companies has already said, it will not be good news, and he will not say, Mr Sánchez, that we did not warn him. But are you going to do something? Is he going to do something? Are you going to resume relations with Algeria so that their poor diplomatic relations do not affect the Spaniards in the bills of light? In all this scenario, you have also decided to increase your dependence on Russian gas. While all of Europe cuts Russian gas supply, Spain increased by 151%. Mr. Sanchez, do you think that's wise? I don't think Europe is. You had everything in your favour so that the impact of the war in Ukraine would be very small, as Vice President Calviño anticipated, but your lack of capacity as a ruler has caused us to be affected as if we were shores of the Black Sea. I'm finishing up. The problem is their inability to govern, manage and administer. In short, what Spain needs is a government that pushes reforms so that the price of energy ceases to be a slab on the budget of families.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u17	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u18	I'm finishing up, Madam President. It is therefore necessary to implement a thorough reform of administrative regulations, so that wind and photovoltaic power plants can be authorised in a few months and do not require years to come into operation. It is necessary to extend the useful life of nuclear power plants. At a time of crisis in Europe, we need a single defence and security policy, not two, as your Government does. We need a foreign policy that can defend and project our interests, also in fisheries, which has again been punished, because neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor the Minister for Agriculture have heard what was happening. That is why another way to govern is needed; to govern from experience with economic policies that provide stability, balance and certainty; a united government and a well-managed government to ensure that the welfare state reaches all who need it. What Spain needs, Mr Sánchez, in short, is a new political time, and that is what Alberto Núñez Feijóo represents; a time when political life is driven by respect, agreement, consensus and the pact against pactism, polarization and sectarianism. Another way of governing is possible and will be a reality soon. In the meantime, we will continue to raise proposals, proposals and proposals for you to lower your pride... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u20	...and start carrying them out. It's time to change, and since you don't change, the Spaniards will change your ruler. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. What a delight you have, Mr Sánchez; after yesterday, you come here and dare to speak of pride, but of the pride of others. [[Applauds]] Imagine the credibility for us of the speech you made after listening to something like that. Look, Mr. Sanchez, you, as long as you're still sitting there, are willing to do anything. The same has brought to this House the blackmails of its separatist and communist partners, which increase inequalities and division among the Spanish, which is offered as the butler of those Brussels bureaucrats to whom no one has chosen. Mr Sánchez, the price that costs you to keep sitting there for all Spanish people day by day cannot continue to fall on the citizens' pockets. It is true that your autocrat delusions, which have eroded coexistence, prosperity and fundamental rights, are a characteristic and a responsibility exclusively of you, but it is also true that with regard to the great decisions you simply simply obey and follow the instructions that transfer you from that ideological and bureaucratic oligarchy that is contrary to the interests of Spain, and to which you die of desire to belong. [[Applauds]] Those oligarchies and those powerful ones, whom he apparently attacks but to whom he obeys, have learned nothing from the crises of this century, and you have referred to some of them; or perhaps they have learned - and we have suffered - that the recipe is to continue to accumulate power and money as they erode democracy and degrade the well-being of citizens. So it happened in the 2008 crisis, to which you referred - then I will talk about the 2015 crisis and then the current crisis too - that crisis in which a few, the rich, were richer and the poor poorest. Then, bipartisanism, Mr Sánchez - I think you know what I'm going to talk about - managed to load a national institution like the savings banks, which did a gigantic social work and were a heritage of all the Spaniards ; a savings banks that were then handed over to the banks, once they had been looted. [[applause]] If I remember correctly, I think you were then advisor to one of them, Caja Madrid. [[Applauds]] From that crisis comes the huge gap that separates the ruling class from the peoples of Europe, and today we have seen here that you come without tie for ideological delusions, while the ujieres have to keep coming in their uniform. Having sat next to you with the new communists, who seemed to have come from the 15M mobilizations, has simply made the citizens fatten the bill we have to pay, because there are more charges to place. This gap widened years later with the 2015 migration crisis, and the continuing drip of Islamist attacks then revealed the failure of multicultural societies. At that time, from the offices or from their mansions, the powerful welcomed thousands and thousands of illegal immigrants, and all disguised them as refugees; and sang the kindnesses of unlimited immigration that they said we needed for our birth crisis and also, according to some CEOs of large companies, because it would serve to lower wages. It was others who suffered the consequences of this so-called effect on the labour market, on the streets or on their bodies without even being able to complain, because there has not been a single day when the media have not marked those who oppose these policies of xenophobics and racists. One day it will be judged how politicians and journalists have insulted their own peoples and stigmatized them in the Western world. [[Applauds]] The same elites who told Europeans in 2008 that the crisis was theirs, was from Europe, said in 2015 that it was also our fault, it was from Europe, that we suffered from Islamization, insecurity or problems of coexistence. The blame for you is always on others, who are the most humble, who are the ones below, who are the weakest and who are the victims of their policies. It's never your fault, Mr. Sanchez. This migration crisis was the second major attack on the well-being of Europeans. Then, throughout Europe, there has been a reaction, which you cannot deny, to that compulsory multiculturalism and to the suicidal goodism of bureaucrats, professional politicians, multinationals and the media. We have just seen it in Italy, we have seen it in Sweden, and already a long time ago in Poland and Hungary, half of France has already reacted, and Spain will be no less when the Spanish are given back their voice and vote. [[Applauds]] Today, in 2022, the pandemic, inflation and the current energy crisis, doubtless, have drawn a new scenario. And you intend to leave in the same way as in the previous ones: by accumulating power, without democratic controls- even the Constitutional Court has struck you - by increasing the fortunes of the big multinationals, by increasing taxes on the self-employed and by increasing the public debt that the next generations will have to pay, and then by distributing crumbs and subsidies to the citizens, to whom the future and prosperity have previously been stolen. That's your recipe, Mr. Sanchez. That's your recipe, Socialist and Communist gentlemen. It's what they've always done, it's all they know how to do. [[Applauds]] If they had taken note of the previous crises, they would be able to descend from the donkey of the climate religion, which is already just the excuse to throw, once again, at those who have less. Because out of the crisis we do not trample on the humble, give more sovereignty or avoid democratic controls, out of the crisis we protect our interests and our rights. And if sacrifices are to be asked, they are asked to set an example, Mr Sánchez, by not climbing the floor of the government and politicians in this House. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, the war in Europe would not have occurred if the European leaders had not placed us in the hands of Russia and China, giving our prosperity and sovereignty. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: From China!-Laughter]] Putin pays his weapons with the gas you buy him and you buy him from Russia four times more gas than you bought him, ruining, by the way, Spanish homes to pay those bills. We have told you several times, in this situation continuing to talk about ecological transition is a macabre joke. First, because euphemism offends, as you call the ecological transition to the imposition of a climate superstition that has, with its measures, no beneficial effect on the planet, but that has become the new big business of the woke multinationals and, of course, of those anti-democratic regimes that claim to fight, but that laugh and strengthen themselves with the restrictions that, by their fault, we impose ourselves. So no energy transition, Mr Sánchez, energy betrayal is exactly what this Congress voted for. [[Applauds]] That is why the first thing, and the main thing, that has to be done by a government that thinks about the economy and the middle and popular classes, but also an opposition that presumes to know how to manage and square the accounts, is to repeal the infamous climate law passed a year ago in this Congress. It is true that much of this nonsense is driven by Brussels, but your Government - with the sole opposition of VOX in this House - has gone beyond banning the exploitation of our natural and energy resources. I have had the opportunity to talk to the international leaders about that vote in Congress and they do not believe it; they find it very difficult to understand that you maintain a criminal law that condemns us to ruin and cold. It is nonsense that is only explained for two reasons: for the fanaticism of some and for the dark interests of others. Because the reality is that Spain has the possibility to produce much of the energy needed to meet the needs of the Spanish, since there are reserves of hydrocarbons in the national territory for more than seventy years and that nuclear power plants could be supplied with Spanish uranium mines. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen - we have said it before - there is gas, there is oil, there is lithium, so important at the moment, and there is coal, which we cannot yet dispense with. In addition, we have the fortune that there is sun, that there is wind, that there are preys and that there are heights to be able to accumulate energy through water. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the destruction of thermal power stations must be halted urgently; nuclear power must be resumed by extending the lives of existing power stations and planning the opening of new power stations; the emptying of reservoirs must be halted; the blasting of dams must be brought to an end - a general plan must be developed for the sensible and sustainable exploitation and exploration of all our natural resources must be developed and not banned in this Congress - pressure must be put on to modify the current pricing system, which is made exclusively for the benefit of German industry; the CO2 duty market must be eliminated, which is an ideological tax, not to say a religious tax; it must be brought to an end with the rotating doors in the electricity companies, in which all of you end sooner than later; taxes must be drastically reduced, and a predictable international policy, which is endorsed by this Congress and is based solely on the national interests and not on Mr Sánchez's strange whims. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] We have long demanded that you take these measures. Well, it is true that we have also asked him to leave and let go of those who put their national interest before the personal interests of sitting on that chair. If you had taken note of the sovereign reaction to the 2015 crisis, you would have set aside your international agendas and its submission to undemocratic powers. Because what you bring us here today are crumbs, it's propaganda, it's bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, it's public debt for generations and generations and it's makeup to make a speech in Congress. There is no deep rectification, Mr Sánchez, and there is not a restorative spirit of the prosperity of the elections, but an intention to reach the elections with better electoral prospects. That's the only thing that moves you. [[Applauds]] There will be no substantial improvement in the dramatic reality that the Spaniards suffer until we address the great structural change that Spain needs in terms of energy; that is, a door to the oligarchies and an open door to the common people. Mr Sánchez, we agree that we must tax the extraordinary benefits of electricity which have been enriched indecently with the legislation which has been approved indecently by you - all that must also be said - and it is favourable to those electricity companies in which you end up working. [[Applauds]] And all this has happened while the purchasing power of the families fell into the ground. The problem is that you want to confiscate that money in order to give it to the ministry of the skirts at the traffic lights and to the ministry of the toy strike or to give it to Bill Gates, who the poor guy must miss. [[Laughs from the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] Hey, Mr. Sanchez, I don't know why you're scandalized. What scandals the Spaniards is that you give the money of the Spaniards to a millionaire! [[Applauds]] If when the Spaniards throw you - and you will do so as soon as you have the opportunity - you dream of entering the service of some millionaire or with some great European armchair, do not do so with taxpayers' money, please. [[Applauds]] We say that we must ensure that one hundred per cent of what is collected is intended to improve the lives of the Spaniards, to a real social bonus, to a radical drop in electricity and gas bills and to help the most vulnerable. I repeat, one hundred per cent - nothing to Mrs Montero's ministry, which should be closed tomorrow - and, if another important percentage is added to that, that the State will provide it to compensate for the fallen VAT from heaven. Because the State has also been enriched as a usurer with the suffering of the people and has money to give it to the people who need it to live. [[Applauds]] It is necessary to recover the usual housing deduction at the IRPF, ladies and gentlemen, so that Spanish mortgage lenders can deduct, as in the past, all the interest they pay and thus face the rise in rates and it is necessary to extend the deduction to the whole nation for rental costs at the IRPF. By the way, I've seen you here applaud the social security, the social state, public education... I didn't know you guys made it up. Who exactly were they applauding? [[Applauds]] What we do know is that in Spain there has been a social state and a public education with far fewer taxes than there are now. We know that you are not going to do anything we ask you to do because you have not learned anything from the previous crises and, therefore, you have to hide and the Spaniards beat you where you go. [[Rumors]] Yesterday you were very bad, Mr. Sánchez, for the second year in a row, making the Head of State wait. You can't do that. Save those ridiculous infiltrators for Brussels, to see if they can stand them there, because here you have to set an example of respect for the institutions, for the Head of State, for the separation of powers and for the rule of law. [[Applauds]] They pity you or they don't pity you, it's their obligation. I assure you that it is not so serious that politicians pity us, others have stoned us and it is so much more serious. [[Applauds]] If you had learned anything from those crises, you would have known that among the Spaniards there is an irrepressible desire for sovereignty and to be the owners of our destiny and a conviction that no more others, whoever they are, decide for the Spaniards; we don't care whether they are unscrupulous bureaucrats, high media or frivolous politicians. We ask you again to step aside and return the word to the Spaniards. Dare to ask the Spanish people about these matters on which they are so sure, the same is taken a surprise and they check that the consensus, which you believed to be so solid, is nothing more than the sum of thousands and thousands of drowned dissents. The Spanish must decide and have the right to do so. Article 92 of the Constitution has only been applied in Spain twice: to vote on the EU and NATO referendums. Never in forty years of democracy have the Spaniards been asked about the public policies that have affected them. And indeed, the voters of the various parties can agree on a lot of things, but if you dare to ask whether the Spanish want to explore our energy resources or continue paying the most expensive bills, if the Spanish want illegal and disorderly immigration or legal immigration, or if the Spanish want the gender policies that you have approved and that end with freedom and equality, I have no doubt that the voters of the left and right would vote the same, they would vote against what you have imposed on the citizens' backs. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. In this turn he also accumulates his turn of replica.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u24	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, before I begin, I make a preliminary statement, and after listening to Mr Abascal's anti-oligarchical speech, I have to ask you: Mr Abascal, are you going to vote in favour of the big fortune tax? It's not gonna happen, is it? It's not gonna happen. Of course, we already know - because it is a historical constant - that fascism is nothing but the militias of the millionaires and, as much as you try to disguise it, you will vote against the tax on big fortunes. Turning to the subject, we are discussing today the issues dealt with at the European Council on 7 October and also the government's policies to deal with the crisis resulting from the invasion of Ukraine. There are many issues that directly affect our country and I want to start with the war in Ukraine. At the European Council on 7 October, there was talk of different reinforcements for war, such as the formation of military personnel, the provision of arms, etc. - even Mr Borrell referred to communicative war - and there was also talk of the eighth package of sanctions to Russia, which was very appropriate, but unfortunately, there was no talk at the European Council of diplomacy, ceasefire or peace agreements; unfortunately, there was no talk of this. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u26	Our position on this is well known because it is the same as always: the longer the war, the worse it will be for the Ukrainian people and for Ukraine, who are the first victims of this savagery, but it will also be worse for the European economies and for Spain. What is not so clear is that an extension of the war is negative for other actors. It does not seem that the sanctions have doubled the Russian economy. And if we talk about the United States, I will quote the French Minister of Economy, who said a few days ago: The war in Ukraine must not result in an economic domination of the United States and a weakening of the European Union. We cannot accept that our American partner sells liquefied natural gas four times as expensive to Europe as the price at which it is sold to its industries. Every week this war continues, Europe comes a step closer to the economic abyss, while others are doing business. That is why, Mr President, from our political space, we would like to see the next European Council also talking about ceasefire, also talking about diplomacy and also talking about possible peace agreements. [[Applauds]] I wanted to start with the war because it is the main cause of inflation behind other concerns such as the security of energy supply and the price of energy. On the first point, security of supply, we must congratulate the Spanish Government because it is doing a good job. Spain's position is much better than that of other European countries, such as Germany, and that has to do with a stake in renewables and the diversification of suppliers. With regard to the second paragraph, the price of energy, it must also be said that the Government is doing a good job. It is clear that the gas cap, the Iberian mechanism, is an achievement of this coalition government which, as you very well said, Mr President, is now considering extending to the whole of Europe. At this point, too, the Iberian mechanism is not enough. To give an example, in the last few days the price of megawatt hour in the Spanish electricity market, in the marginalist market, has been about 160 or 170 euros the megawatt hour. For people to understand, the cost of producing a nuclear megawatt hour is about 40 euros and that of a hydroelectric megawatt hour is about 8 euros. We are paying 160 or 170 euros for energy that costs 40 or 8 euros to produce it. It is to be welcomed that the European Commission, in the words of the President of the Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, has opened the door to putting a stop to infra-marginal energies, but it has also leaked to the media that this top would be approximately EUR 180. This top would be unacceptable because, as I say, there are energies that cost much less to produce and, therefore, the fallen benefits of heaven will continue to be maintained. I believe that, once again, our Government has to lead Europe in order for an appropriate reform of the electricity market to stop being the scam that it is today. From the price of electricity we move to inflation. Although it is true that in the last month it has been significantly moderated, it is clear that inflation remains very high, around 10%, and that such high inflation is difficult to bear for working families and many small businesses. While it is very difficult to combat almost two-digit inflation, it must again be recognized that the coalition Government has taken a number of courageous steps. I can mention the increase in minimum vital income by 15%; the extension of the energy social bonus; the fuel bonus; the free transport bonus or the limitation of the last resort gas tariff. I believe that these measures significantly mitigate the impact of inflation on families. This important effort - as you have said, Mr President - is also part of the general state budgets for 2023. Although it is clear that we would have made some different decisions - I think this cannot surprise anyone - I want to say here today, clearly, that the general budgets of 2023 are good general budgets of the State. And they are not because they are the most expansive in history, burying for the third consecutive year the failed neoliberal recipe for evil so-called austerity, but also for a number of very important concrete elements that protect the social majority. Firstly, and I believe that of the most important - you mentioned them - the increase in contributory pensions and non-contributory pensions and that of minimum living income with the CPI. This is strictly protecting the purchasing power of families from rising inflation. Secondly, these budgets also include the extension of the child-rearing income of EUR 100 for families with dependent children, the recognition of single-parent families with two children to the same benefits to which large families are entitled, the reversal of the reduction of the PP in the unemployment benefit or the additional EUR 600 million in dependency for the third consecutive year. When Zapatero announced the construction of the fourth pillar of the welfare state, many felt that a historical injustice was being repaired. Finally, that fourth pillar of the welfare state begins this year and the next one is the funding it deserves, which makes it possible to function properly. [[Applauds]] And all this has been done by selectively lowering taxes on lower incomes and SMEs and raising the type of the IRPF to the capital yields for higher incomes, in addition to approving the implementation of a tax on big fortunes, which surely very much likes Mr Abascal, so we have heard him here. A tax on big fortunes no less! Who was going to tell us, Mr. President? One of those United Nations measures We can first be Bolivarian, then illegal, then they will destroy the economy, then Europe won't leave us, then they start to sound a little good and end up in the State Official Gazette. [[Applauds]] I think we must celebrate that our country is beginning to comply a little better with Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution. It is true that these budgets are good budgets, it is true that they are expansive, it is true that the purchasing power of pensioners and working people is protected and it is true that the Government has taken a lot of measures to mitigate the impact of the invasion, but at the same time, it must be said that it is very difficult for a government, whatever it is, to be able to completely avoid the effects of such a serious situation, especially when the European Central Bank - you here, Mr President, have quoted some good recent decisions from the European Union, but I believe that we also need to talk about the bad - puts up the types of how it is doing it. I think it must be said clearly that it is a suicidal monetary policy, because the inflation we are experiencing is not due to a warming of demand and not due to excessive economic growth. Many economists are saying that raising rates in a situation where inflation is due to supply bottlenecks, rising energy prices and speculation in derivatives markets will not be able to mitigate inflation. The rise in rates and wage restraint are not going to stop inflation, but they do put suffering on the backs of working people as large companies increase profits. That is why the government must clearly tell the employer to agree to wage increases and must also defend in Europe that the European Central Bank ceases to carry out this monetary aggression and austerity through the back door represented by the rise in rates. The worst consequence of this rise in types, so that people understand us, is the rise in variable-type mortgages. We are talking about that an average mortgage in Spain of variable type can rise 200 or 300 euros if revised in October or November. This is something that very few working families can cope with and that can result in an increase in lateness and defaults. Therefore, Mr President, my parliamentary group has introduced two amendments to the draft law deriving from Royal Decree 14/2022: the first, to limit the differential in variable-type mortgages - already knows our proposal because we introduced it previously as a proposal for a law, but what happens is that we understand it to be an urgent situation - and the second, to do what the Government has already done during the pandemic, that is, to allow the extension of rental contracts when the tenant or tenant so needs. We hope that the Socialist Group will look forward to these proposals and that we will be able to discuss them in the process of this bill. Finally, I know that it is not strictly the subject of appearance, but I want to say that it has certainly reached a European dimension the resignation of the President of the General Council of the Judiciary and President of the Supreme Court, nothing less. I think we need to be very clear at this point. Mrs Gamarra spoke earlier about the institutional deterioration, nothing less than the Group of the European People's Party, which has been blocking the renewal of judicial bodies for almost four years and in a seditious manner. [[Applauds]] Nothing less than the People's Party! And why are you blocking it? Spain knows that it does so for two reasons: the first, to protect its own in the corruption trials and, the second, to use justice in a spurious way to pursue its political opponents. These are the reasons why, in an anti-democratic and unconstitutional way and with seditious attitude the People's Group, which speaks here of institutional deterioration no less, has been blocking the renewal of the council for almost four years. I hope, Mr President, that there can be an agreement, because it is extremely serious what is happening in justice, but I have to tell you that we are very skeptical with the People's Party, this time, yes, for the fourth or fifth time, to agree to a renewal of the council; we are very skeptical. I wish we were wrong, but today we have had breakfast in the press with new excuses and new conditions that only increase our scepticism. Therefore, if this last negotiation proves to be similar to the previous negotiations and is boycotted again by the People's Party, I sincerely believe that the progressive majority in this House cannot be allowed to do nothing. We have a law drafted to take away most of the blockade of the People's Party in this House and it is not only drafted, but it was signed by the Socialist Group. I believe, Mr President, that if the PP insists on maintaining the blockade throughout an entire legislature, which would be no less than a soft blow to democracy, we will have no choice but to do something to put an end to that blockade with the strength of the votes, with the strength of the seats and with all democratic legitimacy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u28	Thank you very much. Good morning. I'll start with a preview. VOX deputies today were late in protest over the president's delay in the king's hearing. I propose further delays, in case you want to protest for them too. In the Royal Cañada people have been without light for two years, people have been waiting for a lot of months for an operation in Madrid, and why not talk about what our elders expected in the residences, for example, also in the Community of Madrid, and they died waiting. [[Applauds]] Seven months have passed and with the same clarity and forcefulness of the first day we say that Putin is a tyrant, an ultranationalist and an invader from which he can only defend himself. But also with the same clarity and force of the first day we say that this reality does not give total impunity to NATO or the Zelenski government, because using car bombs to assassinate Russians, bomb a bridge full of civilians in Crimea or dynamite a pipeline whose sabotage only affects the environment or people has nothing to do with a country's legitimate right to self-defence. [[Applauds]] Saying this may make us less popular, but it certainly makes us more supportive of Ukraine and its democracy, and we will therefore continue to say so. We will also continue to say that there are two alternatives to Europe's acritic militarist discourse. The first alternative is to attack the only homeland that really recognizes and affects people like Putin: his money and the money of those who support him; although opening that door and chasing the money of the satraps who help and support Putin is opening the de facto door to chasing the money of all the corrupt in the world. This is the only preventive war that can really stop these tyrants. The second alternative is to really invest in green energy, but without traps, because both you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, and Europe are masking fossil energy and infrastructure as if they were green; for example, green hydrogen - which is not green - and an infrastructure like the Midcat. I do not doubt neither the Republican Parliamentary Group doubts the suitability and necessity of this pipeline as an alternative to Putin's blackmail or Macron's nuclear model, but they do not sell it, both you and Europe, as if it were a green infrastructure, because it is not. The green infrastructures are the windmills of the Baltic Sea or the solar panels of Sicily, not the Midcat, because that infrastructure will not pass hydrogen, will pass gas. Don't fool people by taking advantage of a war. [[Applauds]] And, speaking of wars, another war is being waged in the world that should also be discussed, ladies and gentlemen: the cultural war of the right and the right against all. It is a war that kills, that is killing democracy day by day, little by little, as it kills carbon monoxide at night. It is a war that, if we lose it, will turn those who today scream from the window of a bigger school into the journalist who will lie to us, into the judge who will imprison us, into the boss who will exploit us or into the politician who will rob us. It is a war that presents battle here and now, in this country - and you, Mr President, have referred to it - for example, the rise of 8.5% to pensioners. It is a new and intense false debate that comes to say the following: You, young precarious, hate your grandfather for what he charges and hates the politicians and the government that pay him. And, as in any other war, we must put up battle with the truth. The Pension Party climbs every month, that's the truth, and spending on pensions month by month beats records. It's pure demography. It would be appropriate for those who complain today to explain how it is stopped, how it is done so that monthly the expenditure of the pensions of our elders does not go up, because there is only one way, ladies and gentlemen. There was only one time that it did not happen, in May 2020, when 25,000 pensioners had already died. That was the only time when the departure of pensions did not go up, and everyone knows why: for the management of those who today complain that the departure of pensions goes up. So harsh and so cruel is the cultural war posed to us by the right and the right, it is simply inhumanity as a model of government. While people hate their grandfather and politicians who tell him they have to hate him, they forget the boss who exploits her or the rich man who lies to her. The truth is that almost 6 million pensioners in this country charge less than 1000 euros and 500 billionaires stop paying in taxes 1 billion euros; that's the truth. The public pension system in this country should not be hated, the tax system in this country should be hated, a tax system that has been pampering an aristocracy that thinks this country is its inheritance for forty years. [[applause]] But if the right and the right can fuel this last fight against the penultimate one in this country, it is because of the enormous inequality on the street and because of the even more enormous racketeering in the Council of Ministers. Mr President, you have given us some data today and I will give you some data again. Today a lettuce costs 15 cents more than a year ago; a shampoo, 17 cents more; flour, 20 cents more; asparagus, 70 cents more; rice, 40 cents more; tuna, 30 cents more; potatoes, 90 cents more; chicken, 1.5 euros more, and pumpkins, 2.5 euros more. Today, Mr President, 375 000 families are already spending half of what they charge for electricity or hot water, and winter has not yet arrived. That's why the right and the right sound so good to whom. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, let alone announce and legislate. They accelerate and intensify taxes on banking, large electricity and large fortunes; implement monetary policies that really anchor inflation; work for a new model of energy price formation; tap food prices and the most basic needs, and adopt truly humanistic policies. Because, beyond our ideology, being humanist today is, for example, that preschool education is free; it is, for example, a four-day weekly workday, and it is, above all, a public mental health plan focused on the emotional well-being of people, because there is no right for mental health in this country to depend on the postal code, gender or class. There is no right for all women at some point in their lives to hate to look in the mirror; there is no right for almost all young people to sedate suicide at some point in their lives as a way out. There is no right and, in the face of so much injustice, so much inequality, so much precariousness and so much competitiveness, we may not have the key to happiness, but it certainly helps a lot to better redistribute wealth and to have access to quality public psychological care. I'll give you some budget notes. We do not know if they will be the most social budgets in the history of humanity - that they will continue to say for the third consecutive year - what we do know is that they will be the most militaristic budgets in history. [[Applauds]] We know that because you with the social never do, but with the military always do. I'll give you some preliminary data to situate us. One of the €12 billion promised for trains, for example, in Catalonia in 2021, you have only met 191; 1200, 191 million. That's 16%, 16% of 100%! Today in Catalonia - and in more places, but especially in Catalonia - there are a lot of people who get up worried about whether they will get to their work in a raffles. Mr President, it is worrying, because the only thing you manage alone in Catalonia is the raffles. It's the only thing. Is that the model you have for Catalonia? Because it sounds quite like a scam; it sounds quite like a scam to have a free train bonus and get stuck on a platform. [[Applauds]] Two, you, for example, increase transfers to municipalities by 2%; this is EUR 279 million for municipalities. Sounds great, sounds great, and you'll sell it, but it's got a trap. It has a trap because, at the same time, you are forcing the municipalities to assume the increase in civil servants' salaries by up to 3.5%. This is 646 million euros. In other words, municipalities and municipalism get lost in these budgets. Three, you have pledged to pass a housing law that will cover rents and really curb the abuses of the big forks. Where is he? [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Here!]] Ladies and gentlemen, where is it? [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Here, in Congress!]] The biggest lever to do this is budgets. Four, you approved and continue to claim a job reform that is almost always great - not always, but almost always - in the statistics of each month, but the reality is that the non-overruns of the trial period have risen by 1000 %; I repeat, the non-overruns of the trial period have risen by 1000 %. You know why? Because an entrepreneur doesn't have to justify it. So, let's ask again: what's the point, beyond life security - which I am extremely glad that it exists - of having the word indefinite up in your contract if they can fire you in the same way as if you were temporary? What's the point? [[Applauds]] Mr. President, moving forward with Republican Left is very simple, you just have to do three things. The first, to comply with the breach; the second, to improve the promised and, the third, to foster a climate of confidence. I repeat: to foster a climate of trust, that is, that your word is worth something. For those who say that repression has ended and that this government is betting on dialogue: in Catalonia today there are 7 people still exiled and persecuted by the Supreme Court for a referendum; in Catalonia today there are still 1500 people charged with fines or imprisonment for a referendum; in Catalonia today there are still 28 positions in the National High Court for a referendum; in Catalonia today there are still 9 partially pardoned political leaders who cannot run for elections for a referendum; in Catalonia today there are 15 mayors sentenced for opening an electoral college for a referendum; in Catalonia today there are still 54 people persecuted by the Court of Auditors for a referendum, and in Catalonia today there are still 65 people being spied on with Pegasus. Do you think that's how you can negotiate something? What's your word for? [[Applauds]] Don't do this to please the people of Catalonia. Do this for your democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u30	Thank you, President. I add to all the complaints of comrade Rufián. I just want to tell you that you can do all this because you're given the green light. Mr Sánchez, I understand that you are not going to be surprised that a citizen of Catalonia tells you that you are not growing up, that I do not believe you. And I don't say it for free or in the spirit of offending; I say it because numbers, data and objective facts say and confirm that you lie to us. Today he has made dozens of promises, which is what he has us used to. Promises and promises and then non-compliances. I have spoken about dignity and justice and, Mr Sánchez, I wonder whether 16% of the implementation of the budgets in Catalonia is worthy and fair. And 35%? And why does a citizen of Madrid receive three times what a citizen of Catalonia receives? He has also told us about the energy crisis - a crisis that did not come with the war as long as you repeat it, but was earlier - and he has spoken about the measures that will be implemented. Talking about these measures is the nice part, but it seems to me nothing worthy or fair that you compensate the electrics with 1360 million euros public at a time when the electrics triple their profits. How many SMEs and how many self-employed could benefit from these EUR 1360 million? He has talked about roll-ups and has set a couple of examples of the impacts of his measures, and I will also give some examples of the impacts of his measures and also of the impact of his non-compliances. Mr Sánchez, the citizens of Catalonia have lost in just over a month 450,000 hours of productivity; this is equal to a loss of many millions of euros and it is due to the delays of the trains you manage. In the last 40 days, trains run by you in Catalonia have only worked seven days well, i.e. the service has only worked well by 17%. Those we manage from the Generalitat de Catalunya have an average punctuality of 99%. Of every 100 euros you have committed to investing in ADIF-Renfe in Catalonia, you have paid only 24%. In Madrid they have invested 153%. They have opened 84 kilometers of new roads in Madrid, but zero in Catalonia. The investment per inhabitant in Madrid is 309 euros, in Catalonia it is 95. [[The Lord]] Mr Sánchez, in Catalonia we do not want charity, what we want is for things to work, for trains to work, because we pay more than 50 billion euros in taxes. Where's this money? Where's our money going? Because I assure you Catalonia won't make it. The People's Party has also always done the same: failing to do so. For example, only 56% of the budgets in Catalonia were implemented in 2016. Practically nothing has changed; well, yes, the percentage is getting lower. Mr Sánchez, in Madrid they have implemented 184 % of the 2021 budgets; in Catalonia 35 %. Today we find ourselves here one more year listening to how you promise us a million-dollar rain for Catalonia, practically the same day that we knew the implementation data of the last budgets, those of 2022. You have only implemented 16% of the budgets in Catalonia this year; last year 35% and this year 16%. I mean, Mr Sánchez, out of every 100 euros you had to get to Catalonia, you only paid 16 euros. And I wonder... ; at least make you see that you are asking your parties, that it is those who govern, that it is those who make the budgets and it is those who distribute, that you pay Catalonia what belongs to Catalonia. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] Mr Sánchez, if 100 are paid 100, and if 35 are paid or 16 are paid, then neither the PSC nor the commons nor those who systematically approve their budgets in exchange for nothing are of no use to Catalonia. And not only do they not comply with Catalonia, Mr. Sánchez,... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] Because yes, Europe, unlike Spain, is investigating why politicians are being spyed on. The list of non-compliances, Mr Sánchez, is long, and those who do not comply are not reliable. They are not the only ones who do not comply, some also told us that they complied with the agreements, that never a new tripartite and that never the Spanish State and Government ahead of Catalonia. Some have decided to give stability to those who believe that 16% is enough for Catalonia, but... Give stability to this whole lie in exchange for four crumbs, four headlines and one... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] I'm on my way. Mr. Sánchez, the world is changed by brave people who keep your word and who are loyal. It is clear that neither you nor Mr Aragonès will change anything in this world. Thank you very much for the free Catalonia visca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u31	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u32	President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, here we are in another session - in this case 'post-pyronic' - that I do not know how useful it will be for citizens beyond the measures announced by the President of the Government included in the budget and that he could, of course, have announced in the presentation of the budget. Having said that, Mr President of the Government, you have spoken about several aspects, and in one we agree: Europe has emerged strengthened from these crises - the pandemic and that of war - and European funds play two roles, a countercyclical role and a function of modernising the economy. I must remind you that this dual function is fulfilled by public investment in general, the public investment approved in the General State Budgets and the public investment that we, the Members who voted in favour of the General State Budgets, have put in their hands. The fact that only 16% of the planned investment in Catalonia was implemented in the first half of the year is not good news; on the contrary, it is bad news. I do not want to explain to you what I would say to any of the heads of department in my office or in my company if on 30 June you tell me that you have implemented 16% of the targets. I'm not telling you, but you can imagine. Another question, Mr Sánchez. You have indicated and put into value - and you are right - what represents 100% of the rail transport bonus for a citizen who earns 1500 euros a month; you have said that this involves dealing with approximately 50% of the impact of inflation. Do you want to explain to me what you are going to tell that citizen who earns 1500 euros a month and who supports inflation but who travels daily to work by bus because he has no alternative to use the railway? Doesn't this one have the right to be helped? Are you not entitled to face inflation also from the public budget? In any case, if they had not done so before, today they have launched - we have all started - a long electoral campaign for the municipal and general elections. One last piece of advice, although I'm nobody but a congressman with a lot of election campaigns behind his back. To talk about the fact that those who come are very bad and that they are going to do so is not usually an electoral asset. The important thing is to envision, create illusion in people and convince them that what is being done is improving their quality of life, not discrediting the adversary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u33	Thank you. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1981 François Miterrand arrived at the French Presidency promising nothing less than a French and democratic path to socialism, with a common programme based, on the one hand, on a driving force behind the reindustrialisation of the country and, on the other, on a major expansion of social services and labour rights. The progress was immense and yet in less than two years this Government had to end up yielding. It had been an experience against the historical winds that also faced the resistance of the richest within and the economic war of the markets outside. It was perhaps the last great socialist attempt in Europe and ended in a great disciplinary scare. No one else would try that path again until Syriza in 2015, which was humiliated by the European Union. From that humiliation, these reactionaries. Today, forty years later, the COVID, the climate crisis and the war have changed the tornadoes. When we passed the extraordinary tax on banks and large energy companies, the distinguished economist Díaz Ayuso said there was going to be a capital flight to England. He said that on September 29, and it is important to keep the day. What was going on in England? The new conservative government applied to the extreme the usual recipe of the right, the recipe for everything: brutal reduction of social spending and general reduction of taxes to the rich. Well, four days after the People's Party praised the English model, the Tory government had to reverse the tax cut to the richest because the risk premium was being fired while the pound collapsed. Sanz López describes it well in an article this weekend, perhaps it was also a scarament that marked a change at the time. What does this mean? That the wind of economic policy is changing in Europe and that what was unthinkable years ago is on the agenda today: taxes on the big ones to protect small ones, intervention by markets, entrepreneurial states for economic stimulus and ecological transition. This Government, with all the difficulties it has had to face, has conditions for progress that would not have been able to dream of Miterrand or Tsipras. Neoliberalism is intellectually defeated, but it must be buried socially and politically. Since the debate on the state of the nation in July, the Government has marked a turn in its direction, which we consider to be correct and which today has deepened with the new energy measures. They're going in the right direction and they'll count on our support. It was not a question of being left-wing or ruling for the left, but of understanding that the real fracture that divides our country is between those who pay for the crisis and those who benefit from it, and the Government must be clearly on the side of those who suffer it. Since the adoption of this direction the measures have been understood and valued by the citizenry; they have been fair measures that have lightened the burden on the workers and recovered the political initiative by transferring the contradictions to the adversary. The PP no longer knows how to oppose the same as his supporters in Europe and VOX has costume parties. However, in the event that budgets go beyond parliamentary procedure and are approved, there may be a temptation in the Government to want to settle, to say that disputes have come so far, to save itself more difficulties and to stop and give the legislature for amortization. This would be, Mr President, a huge mistake, exactly the kind of mistake the right-wings are waiting for. The path is the right one, but it takes more, it needs to be taken to the last consequences. We have said this many times, but this Government is a bicycle whose stability and social understanding depend in fact on its progress. The market has been short-sighted and unable to look in the long term. That is why we are living the time of the return of planning; that is why we insist that the basic food basket must be involved, that the housing market must be intervened with a ceiling on rents and helping those who have a mortgage to move from fixed to variable; that is why we urge you to adopt the goal of 100 percent renewable electricity by 2030 and, therefore, following the economist Mariana Mazzucate, we urge you to adopt a public green investment fund to finance the reindustrialisation of our country. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u35	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you never gave 50 seconds for that. I am a veteran MP, I came here after being mayor, in full crisis, in the absolute majority of the PP, and I remember the black Fridays of pain: pension cuts, social rights cuts, tax cuts, tax amnesties, gifts to banks and suffering for the middle and working classes, and pensioners. Therefore, I always had a determination: if there was the possibility of a progressive majority, I would have no doubt; if there was any possibility of sending the opposition to the right, I would have no doubt. And that is why, Compromís, we voted for the motion of censure, and that is why we voted for you to be president, so that there would be no black Fridays and there would be, at least, Tuesdays of hope. We have made and continue to make policies that help people and businesses - we do not deny it - and we therefore vote in favour of them, but we believe that this Government has two weak points and, in the Valencian case, one more, three. The first point, the story. Things are done, but this has not just shut up on the citizens and it is worrying that some chilling stories continue to shut down. Second weak point, housing. Housing is what gives people well-being and security. The housing law has to go out, they have to be brave to go out. And the third point, in the Valencian case, is that the general budgets have been a disappointment. There is more money, yes, but the gap is not narrowed. If budgets were to serve to narrow the gap, they would not be reduced: 360 euros each Valencian, below the average. And other speakers have said this: the very low rate of implementation which contrasts, for example, with Madrid; just 30% of the implementation of investments. And I give you a very clear example: the connection of Alicante and Elche to the airport of El Altet. We believe that these budgets should be used to balance, but these budgets do not lower the differential and this affects the perception of the citizens. I believe that they misdraw the policies that are made in the Government, but they also misdraw the policies that we do in the Valencian Government. And I finish - there is Mr. Marlaska -. Yesterday, in Madrid and, on Sunday, in Valencia, with total impunity, some exhibited Nazi symbolism and dictatorship flags. [[Rumors]] And it contrasts with the permissiveness of these ladies and gentlemen - I was going to say something else - and it contrasts with the zeal and severity with which it acts with other leftist groups when it comes to requisitioning symbolology. We'd like them to be put to work. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Goberno, if there is a constant in government action since the beginning of the price crisis - and I am not talking about February, it is enough to remember that 2021 has ended with 6.5% inflation - it is your refusal to take structural measures and even those that are palliative or punctual, to delay until the social dynamics compel them. I would like to remind you that the BNG, like other leftist and sovereignist political forces, has been demanding taxes on energy, banking and big fortunes for a long time. They said it wasn't possible, until it was, even if it was partially and temporarily. And, in this context, it is more evident than ever what structural measures are essential. The BNG is committed to nationalizing large power plants, because if energy is an essential asset in the strategic electricity sector, it must be under public control. We want a public energy company and an own tariff in Galicia, as a surplus producer of electricity and, in any case, there is an urgent need for a comprehensive reform of the electricity market, which seems never to arrive. You were talking about the gas price cap in the wholesale market as a success, but it's obvious that that top is paid by consumers impacting on the electricity bill. It's just a deception, a fraud against the citizenry. And they refuse something as elementary and effective as setting a cap on fuels and electricity to end consumers, at the expense of the scandalous benefits of large energy companies. But other social measures that are slowing down are also urgent: raising the inter-professional minimum wage, at least in line with inflation, and increasing minimum pensions. They're talking about climbing the tops. Start with the minimums, as was your commitment, and put all the rise in mortgage types to avoid a serious blow to thousands of families. The BNG is clear that it is a priority to strengthen social policies rather than increase military spending. In the context of extreme economic difficulties, allocating more than EUR 27 billion, or more than 2% of GDP - in a calculation that we understand rigorously from the Centre Delàs d'Estudis per la Pau - is simply an aberration. Let us not further encourage the escalation of the war in the European Union, which is increasingly subordinated to the United States and to NATO, which irresponsibly announces nuclear arms manoeuvres, and bet through diplomatic dialogue and negotiation to put an end to the war as soon as possible, primarily for humanity, to end the pain and destruction it causes, but also to avoid deepening in the ruin of the peoples of Europe it is causing, for the greater benefit - to be said - of the American friend. Persisting in a wrong policy can only lead to disaster. That is why the BNG asks them to rectify. You speak that this crisis should not be paid for by the same, but if you do not rectify, in fact, we are already doing so: it is being paid by the popular classes through impoverishment, by the workers and by the peoples, while the rich continue to win and the big companies scandalously increase their profit at the cost of the suffering of the majority. If you want, there are alternatives. And, as time is running out, I cannot enter the general budgets of the State, but I am progressing that for the BNG, in addition to the question of military spending, which we reject, and the low degree of implementation of the previous ones, are insufficient, both from the social perspective and from the investment and services in Galicia. We will work to change them and improve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u39	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are faced with an appearance by the President of the Government who comes to talk basically about what happened at the European Council and about the latest measures taken by the Government of Spain. Both issues, which are very important, are taking place in a very clear context of the energy and economic crisis that is destroying our country. The first thing I want to do is to express the absolute commitment of the liberal family, not only in Congress, but in our partners in Renew, in our participation in the European Parliament, with the people of Ukraine, who have been fighting heroically against the invader for eight months now. Of course, not only in Congress, but also in the European Parliament with the Renew Group, we have promoted many measures to ensure that the European Union responds with unity of action to this affront not only to a sovereign territory, but to the values that inform us as the European Union. Of course, the European Union's response may be short, but the one that has been short is the firmness of this Spanish government that we all have the misfortune to suffer, which is made up of members of a party, such as Podemos, that day and day is also dedicated to publicly attacking the UN and NATO. I think it is a added disgrace for all Spaniards to have members of Podemos on the Governing Council at a time like this. The President of the Government has had unlimited time, he has been able to address many situations, but we have limited time and therefore I will focus on what I think is most important, which is the situation of families. No one will be surprised if I say that Mr Sánchez' speech has been full of falsehoods, not only about the situation in Spain, but also about the intentions of this Government in adopting certain measures. Faced with their falsehoods, we are going to give some uncomfortable truths with data. The first thing I want to say to you is that you are not only a factory of social division, that everyone knows about it, but you like it best to divide the Spaniards between so-called fronts and so-called progressives. What I think is a little less talked about is that you are a factory of social inequality, you increase the inequality of the Spanish, and I explain myself. The first inequality that you are widening is territorial inequality, and it is not new. It is not new that in Spain a child born in an autonomous community has worse services, worse education and worse opportunities than in another autonomous community, but with you in the government this has increased. In the Basque Country, for example, 400 euros more are spent per child in education than in Andalusia, 400 euros. Faced with the temptation you will have to say that it is that we prioritize better, I will tell you that no, that you have an unequal coupon, absolutely insolidary, which makes other children from other territories have less money for health, education, etc. [[Applauds]] You too have done a praise of the doctors, the police, the teachers, which we, of course, share. But do you know that in Spain there is a wage inequality of more than 1000 euros between doctors for being in one autonomous community or another? Do you know that there is wage inequality of 500 or 600 euros between teachers from one autonomous community or another? Do you know the inequality between police officers of an autonomous security force and the National Police and Civil Guard? You're a factory of inequality. It is true that it is not just you, because this comes from the PP and the PSOE, but of course you do not fight at all. What they do is increase it, because they need their separatist partners. But, well, let's go to more uncomfortable truths. In Spain, two huge gaps are widening: a gap between generations - which I already know is an uncomfortable truth to say, but it is the reality - and another huge gap between those working in the public sector and those working in the private sector, also an uncomfortable truth. Let's start at the last, the private sector versus the public sector. Do you know that the average salary of the public sector is 1000 euros more per month than the average salary of the private sector? Do you know that there is a difference in the average salary of 8 euros an hour if you work in the public sector than if you work in the private sector? Of course, our police, our teachers, those who work in the courts making the state work, those who are in the municipalities signing projects and giving the face to give services to citizens or those who educate our children deserve a decent salary and increase their wages, but what can not be done is at the cost of putting more stones in the backpacks than those who work in the private sector. Because what you haven't told us today is that you've increased the contributions by 8.6% for the private sector to pay a small part of your party, because it's not going to even pay the confetti of the party that Mr. Sánchez is organizing. [[applause]] Moreover, it is an injustice and a tremendous inequality, because you raise the salary equally to those who protect us at night on the street, to those who educate our children, to those who have given their face in the hospitals in the pandemic that to the plugs of Moncloa who make to you the speeches, that make the electoral campaigns, those who are plugged in a public administration defending the PSOE... [[Applauds]] Everyone knows what I'm talking about and the first ones who know what I'm talking about are career officials, who know perfectly well the difference between a career official and a political party card official who enters the Administration with the political party card in his mouth. You said one thing here that seems very serious to me. I don't know if I've misunderstood it and if not, it corrects me, but did you say that the vault key of the welfare state is pensions? I thought I heard this. The vault key is what holds the bow and vault; it is not pensions that hold it, it is employment that holds the welfare state, pensions, public services, subsidies... [[applause]] It's the job that holds him. If you attack the job, the whole vault falls. I think it's fantastic the example you've used, whenever it's corrected, of course. Especially private employment, because it is self-employed people and SMEs who also pay their taxes, who also contribute with their efforts to the welfare state so that we have good judges, good cops, good doctors and good teachers. It's just that you don't understand anything. Pensions are the last step. And of course there has to be decent pensions in our society, but what you are doing is an intergenerational gap, which I already know is an uncomfortable truth that neither PP nor PSOE are going to dare to say, because of course the People's Party has come out enthusiastically to approve an increase of 8.5% of pensions in one year, 19 billion euros of pension increase this year. You talk about young people. Do you know how much you have increased in your supposed wonderful budget for young people, for example, scholarships? EUR 390 million; EUR 19 billion compared to EUR 390 million. Even the tax on the rich, who have sold so much, with which the government says it is going to enter 750 million euros, is something that, of course, is not going to be met, because the government is an expert at non-compliance with revenue forecasts. But, assuming that they were going to enter 750 million euros, 19 billion against 750 million euros. And don't tell me about the pension sheath, because you say, "No, it's just that we're filling the pension sheath. At the expense of the contributions that have just been raised to SMEs and self-employed people! [[Applauds]] Still, let's see the numbers: EUR 3 billion are supposed to increase your contribution income, EUR 19 billion in pensions. Pensioners are not to blame for the problem, because pensions inherit the problems of previous stages. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Exactly]] The labour market inherits the problems of poor education in Spain, of poor educational quality, and that is why we have a precarious labour market, so we have appalling data that puts us at the worst level of the OECD in educational quality. The other day, for example, we saw the abandonment before the end of the FP and the Baccalaureate. The labour market inherits the problems of education and pensions inherit the problems of the precarious labour system of the submerged economy, of garbage wages and of garbage contracts for a very important part of society. Mr Sánchez, this is the summary of your budget expenditure. [[Displays a graph]] This is what public money is spent on by the Government of Spain. This is pensions, this is debt payment and this is unemployment. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: What about the other?]] In pensions, 42%; in public debt, 7%; and in unemployment, 5%. Here, in Chiquitito, there is innovation and development and research, 2.32%. Here, in small town, are strategic infrastructures of Spain, 2.42%. Industry, 2%. Employment promotion, 1.78 %. A country that half of its spending is on pensions and in paying the debt is a country that cannot prosper. [[Applauds]] You can't prosper, Mr. Sanchez. Do you know what happens to many pensioners in this country? They know the reality of their children and their grandchildren and know that their children are emancipated by thirty years on average, when the European average is in the twenty-six; in France they are emancipated by twenty-three. Do you know what happens to pensioners in this country? They listen to their children and grandchildren and know that half of the young people in this country, almost half of the young people in this country, live at their parents' house until the age of thirty-four; in France it is only 15%. What's going on? That the young people of Spain are less smart? Or are they more vague? No, it's just that they have less chances. Do you know what happens to pensioners in this country? They know that their children and grandchildren would want to have more children than they have. 80% of Spaniards say they would like to have more children than they have. How are we not going to be one of the worst-born countries in the world with this panorama! Every day the distance is wider, every day the base is weaker, and of course the pensioners are not to blame. But it is they, our elders, who have taught us that we must save, that we must think about the future and the others, that we cannot spend more than we have, that you cannot go crazy if a year or two you make a lot of money because worse years can come. It is they who have taught us to turn off the light when we leave a room, to close the tap of the water when we brush our teeth, or not to throw away the food that is left today, even if it is a little, because we will eat it tomorrow. It is they who have taught us to see this and to worry. [[show the graph again]] Yes, you laugh, Minister, but I don't think many pensioners are laughing at the panorama your children and grandchildren have every day. [[Addressing the Second Vice President and Minister of Labour and Social Economy, Díaz Pérez]] [[Applauds]] Don't laugh, Minister. What do you think, that I don't like my father getting a 10 or 9 % pension, who is eighty-five years old and retired with seventy-three, after working more than forty? Of course they deserve it. Or my mother, housewife? That those are the vault key of all families and of the whole system, that those never retire. By the way, you have raised the same percentage to widows who earn 800 euros a month as to those who have three floors paid and charge 2500 euros a month; that is, that of progressive and progressive, you, not a lesson, and less to us. Of course, pensioners deserve their pension and deserve that it can be valued with sustainable criteria! What you don't deserve is that you use them for your election campaign. And you know what pensioners deserve? Sleeping with the peace of knowing that your children and grandchildren are going to have a country of opportunity, a system that works, and that your children and grandchildren are also going to have quality public services and pensions, and right now many pensioners doubt it. Of course the pension system is sustainable! Of course it's sustainable! In the short term, we have to do as other countries do, to link re-evaluation to what goes up wages - in Japan, in Norway, in Ireland, in the Netherlands and many more - but the basis of the system is what needs to be fixed: to increase birth support, to improve educational quality, to combat the submerged economy, to improve the strategic plan for industry and innovation, and to make private employment easier. You should look more to Portugal, where the IRPF has deflated and companies, which maintain employment and raise wages, have historic tax cuts. Because if you don't do all these things that increase the basis of the system, if you, both the PP and the Socialist Party, don't improve the basis of the system, what you're doing is a pyramidal scam. And who do you think will affect most when the pyramidal scam pinches bubbles? The rich, who will have four or five floors and will live off the rents? The billionaires and the bankers? No, no, Who will be affected by their cuts - we've already seen it with Zapatero, because we've already experienced all this - who will be affected later is the working class and the Spanish middle class. [[Applauds]] Those are the ones it's going to affect. Of course, it's not just a Sanchez problem. We didn't get to this situation just because of Pedro Sánchez. He has the destructive capacity to spare this lord, but not so much; not so much as to have provoked this alone in four years. Therefore, courageous parties are needed that break taboos that we know are very uncomfortable to break, that we know that they create many problems, but it is necessary to speak clearly and give a future to the new generations, and also to that generation of forty-five years that never reach the levels of income that you put in for your help. You've come back here today to talk about new help. But do you know what's going on? That there are people who have been trained all their lives, who are working, who have two children, who have reached a professional level, who earn 40,000 euros a year - who know that it is very good salary and that most Spaniards would like to have it - but who are also not rich, and to live in Madrid or Barcelona it is also not that they arrive very surplus. And those never get to help because the top is always rent. Aid is accumulating for those with a very low income and for those of 35 000, 40 000 or 32,000 euros nothing ever comes to them. That's a forgotten generation and you're creating gaps. I know what I'm saying is hard to say...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u41	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u42	It's over, Mr. President. ... I know that what I am saying is not one of the consensus that has been maintained in this rostrum, but it is absolutely necessary not only to denounce it, but to propose measures such as those we bring to reverse it. If we do, ladies and gentlemen, we will have a better country, because being brave and responsible today is what will make the next generations have much more opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u43	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u44	Mr. President, when your presence was announced on paths in Congress and in the Senate, respectively, the truth is that I didn't know what letter I was staying at. Man, the appearance of the Senate seems obvious: to keep a face to face with Mr. Feijoo after having assessed that, as on the previous occasion it was good for him, we have to go deeper there. The important thing is his head to head, of which there is no doubt. As soon as Mr Feijóo has just spoken, you are going to reply and you are going to keep your head to head; the case you make to the rest of the speakers, if that, we will see. As for the appearance in Congress, it wasn't as clear to me. As an excuse for the call for a European informal summit could be apparent, but it does not seem to make much sense when it has never come to the Courts - which I am told at least - after an informal meeting, but only after the European Councils, and it turns out that next week, the 20th and 21st, will be held. Come on, this meeting wasn't for decisions, it was just preparatory for next week's meeting, which, yes, it will have to inform us a posteriori. You are not obliged nor have you ever come to tell us how things are in advance, and less when, as at the informal meeting on day 7, the thing has not given for much. Then I noticed the addition of the statement on the agenda: to report on the economic and social measures taken by the Government to respond to the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. Well, let's go in parts. As for the informal meeting in Prague, they were talking about the last package of sanctions that had been set. I will tell you that what surprised me most is that you have had to spend almost eight months of war to make the decision to stop the sale of semiconductors to Russia. I do not understand that this decision has not been in force since 25 February, knowing, as we know, that technologically the Russian Army is heavily dependent on the components of its armament of European technology and, especially, of German technology. In some ways, therefore in practice, arms have been sent directly to Ukraine while the maintenance of Russian arms was indirectly sustained. Incomprehensible!But welcome be the decision. I cannot agree more with you that it has been difficult for Europe to wake up, but at last it seems that we are going to go to a permanent mechanism that limits the price of gas and reform the pricing of the electricity system. The sooner the better. I hope you bring good news from the Council next week. That gas and electricity interconnection is fundamental to Europe's future is obvious, and the role of the Spanish State in supporting European energy sufficiency is clear. Yeah, so, go ahead with the interconnections. But I cannot fail to point out, Mr President, the incongruity that you assume to defend turning the Peninsula into a gas hub and pushing almost from scratch the storage and regasification in El Musel as strategic - as you point out in the contingency plan - while you refuse to authorize a second cargo ship in the port that the largest gas ship discharge has today, Bilbao, even above Barcelona. It is still less understood when the investment would be private and only has to give an authorization so that the ships do not deviate by saturation to other ports, even outside the Peninsula, as has happened today. He has not mentioned a great cloud on the horizon: the cut in oil production decided by OPEC to the alimon between Saudi Arabia and Russia. The situation is getting complicated, therefore. And the International Monetary Fund, on the other hand, has lowered all the forecasts we had so far. Germany has declared that it has already entered into recession. Beware of the measures we take! Let us be prudent and balanced. But what brought you to this House, mainly, was not the Prague meeting, but the obsession with reporting for the umpteenth time the benefactors that your Government has been taking. As the surveys seem to reflect that the lagent does not realize the diligence and great effort of his Government, we are inundated with a repeated reading of measures that we already know and that, for more inri, we have already been able to read in the yellow budget book. You will find them on pages 17 and 20, in an orderly list; moreover, we already knew them in advance, some because we have discussed them at the time and we support the majority - you know it well - even criticizing the approach of some of them; and others are of various types because they are part of the budget project and that is your debate, not this session, so I am not going to discuss them today with you. I am not going to talk about the budget, it is not the time or the advice of prudence during the negotiations. Prudence doesn't advise him. I will only tell you that in the same book there are some measures which are becoming structural on the basis of a cyclical collection derived from inflation - careful with this - which again divert investment basically to resilience funds, which are excluded from the budget and therefore from the discussion and budgetary vote. And there's the great core of the matter. And in the yellow book it is said that before the end of the year will be presented an addendum with new investment projects and reforms that, today, no one - I insist, no one - knows. He announces us today in his speech some more measure. All right, it's fine to do something about the community boilers. What is not understood is that we have to wait until mid-October - with winter at the gates - to take action, especially when others - like us - are asked to do so already in April. It is not understood - or at least I do not understand it, Mr President - that with the budget procedure launched you request this meeting. It is a session that does not lead to anything practical, but to more controversy, overaction and sterile confrontation and leads to an unnecessary risk of dialectic shock with those with whom you want to agree. Mr President, the most effective thing for the surveys to smile at you is not to provoke unnecessary debates about extensive and repetitive speeches, but to get the measures adopted to those who need them, to be really effective and to do so soon. As much as the yellow book says that 2022 has been the year that cruise speed has been reached in the recovery plan, it's not about what people hear, it's about what people feel. Perhaps someone will suggest you as a substitute to order the second season of your Netflix series, but if you want my well-intentioned advice, that television idea - starting with the first season - is rather counterproductive and somewhat histrionic. So every thing in its time. I didn't come here to give a rally or a counter-meeting, nor are we here to discuss budgets. Let us therefore go to the task, and the task is that you have one week left to expose the budgets in the Commission and to engage in dialogue in the search for an agreement to bring them forward. And we have a week to think about whether or not my group is making a full amendment to those same budgets. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u45	Thank you. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u46	Egun on. Good morning. I want to start by making an appeal that should be logical, but apparently it is not so much. We must stop the war in Ukraine. Many of you will say that it is naive to ask, perhaps even ridicule it, but it is neither naive nor ridiculous, because building peace is not, it is not naive and it is not ridiculous. It is difficult, yes, but it is possible and it seems that, for some reason, for some interest, they want to convince us otherwise. Diplomacy, dialogue and negotiation are possible, but what we are seeing in recent weeks is just on the opposite path. And I will repeat it again so that no one will alter our position: in Euskal Herria Bildu we strongly reject the Russian invasion ordered by Putin over Ukraine. It is an unjustifiable aggression that is generating much pain and suffering in the Ukrainian population, in the European population and also in the Russian population, because in the end - we all know it - in wars a few win, but most lose, we lose. Faced with this, in the face of an attack of these characteristics, there are two options: to direct all international efforts to find a way out through diplomacy, or to direct them to increase the escalation. What stage do you think we're on? Yes, in fuelling a war conflict that is reaching levels that could lead to an open war in Europe, even reaching a nuclear crisis. As we put aside diplomatic efforts, we send more and more weapons; as we put aside efforts for dialogue, we apply more and more sanctions that are impoverishing the citizens of Europe as a whole. As we put aside efforts for a peace agreement, we increase tension with every public statement. Do you think this is the way to end the war, Mr. Sanchez? What's the plan if you don't go looking for a dialogued exit? Questions that have been unanswered for months and deserve clear answers. Mr Sánchez, we have a feeling that there are interests in this war to be prolonged and that, therefore, the necessary diplomatic efforts are not being made. But we refuse to accept that the only possible scenario is to feed and prolong war. That is why we believe that the time has come for Europe, and also the Spanish State, to stop being subordinated to the United States and NATO. We believe that it is time for Europe to develop its own security autonomy and its own external strategic position without being subordinated to anyone. It is time to turn from a war narrative to deploy all the necessary diplomatic instruments to try to finish it, looking at the interests of the European population and Ukraine. And we are no longer just saying it, Mr Sánchez, but not just the Basque people - who voted against NATO - are also saying it as European leaders like the French Minister of Economy, who are beginning to verbalise publicly what millions of people think. And this is what I was saying: The war in Ukraine must not result in an economic domination of the United States and a weakening of the European Union. We cannot accept that our American partner sells gas four times more expensive to Europe than to its industries. This was said by the French Minister of Economics this very week. Clearer, water, Mr. Sanchez. We ask you to take a firm stand and seek allies in Europe to get out of this spiral. The best support for Ukraine will come from accompanying us in the search for a solution, not from pushing them into a war; but this - and although peace is always more difficult than war - must not prevent us from trying it over and over again. We believe it is time to reflect and recover the diplomatic initiative before it is too late, Mr Sánchez. Today we again present a package of short-term measures to deal with a structural crisis and, as we have repeated countless times, we need protective measures - which we value positively - but also, and urgently, structural policies that begin to transform the unsustainable predatory model of the planet and of people in which we are immersed. Because the gas cap is fine, but an intervention and transformation of the energy market is necessary to end the insulting business that large companies make of a basic good. Taxes on electricity, banks and large fortunes are also good, but they must be part of a structural and non-temporary fiscal reform that rebalances the balance towards fiscal justice in favour of the working and social majority. The top up of the rents is fine, but urgent intervention by the real estate market is necessary for a right such as housing to cease to be a business. As long as all this is not done, we will continue to put patches instead of solutions. Today you have presented the contingency plan with new measures, a plan which we still do not know about its development and scope and which will include savings, economic impetus and social protection measures. We would like to highlight, among them all, one, because of the great impact it has on thousands and thousands of Basque families, as well as on the State: that of ending the discrimination that families with communal boilers are suffering, hundreds of thousands of people and families who are seeing how their bills are fired because they are considered industrial consumers and are prevented from accessing the last resort rate, obviating that, even if they are boilers that provide shared service, consumption and destination is exactly the same as that of any other person who has an individual boiler in their home. It is an anomaly on which we have been working for months to find a solution that is much closer today, a serious situation for which we have proposed solutions in all institutions, from our municipalities and parliaments to this very Congress. We have been working and pushing for this for three months, and it is good news that the Government has finally agreed to offer the technical solution that the families who use these boilers have been demanding for so long. Already in March, we transferred this problem to the Government and proposed solutions, and after months of working on it, we welcome the fact that we are finally going to correct this discrimination against millions of people. This is an expression more of the enormous problem that the unorbited costing of bills is generating millions of citizens and businesses, a capital injustice that seems to have no end, an injustice that seems to have occurred because yes, as a meteorological phenomenon that happens without more. But no, everything that is happening with rising prices and inflation, rising electricity and gas bills or fuel prices are responsible: it is a consequence of the misguided policies of governments and the mafia and selfish practices of large energy companies. Because it was you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, also you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, through your successive governments, who privatized the public energy companies by fascicles; those who sold to the best bidder the management of an essential good like electricity to do a business without limits; those who accepted in Europe a rigged pricing system, whereby we are sold all the electricity at the most expensive price. It was you who allowed the leaders of the big energy companies, the oil companies, the banks and the IBEX to have more power than their own governments; who have given them the ability to impose their economic doctrines against the interests of the social majority. And now - we recognize this - this government has dared to take some steps, small steps, to try to stop this drift, trying to make now, for the first time, something, a part of everything that should. Much remains to be demanded, but these are the first steps in the right direction. The bad news, Mr Sánchez, is that they have been raised to their beards, because they know they will not act decisively against them. We know with so much power that we dare, even, to challenge and fail to comply with the measures that the representatives of the citizenry take here in a democratic way. What would you call this, Mr. Sanchez? Don't you think it's time to tell them that so far, you've crossed some unacceptable lines? We believe that it is, that it is time to make them answer for the scam they are committing against the citizenry. As an example, I will give you three examples that perfectly illustrate how the economic and business elites are growing: Mrs Botín, a billionaire banker, and Mr Imaz, the leader of the PNV who came to lord of oil, warned that they will face the government with all possible means to avoid paying a cent of the new taxes. The CNMC confirmed this same week that oil companies have increased their profit margins to historical records since the entry into force of the 20 cent aid to fuel approved by this Congress. And third example: the electrics massively emptied the swamps in the summer of 2021 to generate cheap electricity and sell it face. There have been no consequences or sanctions for this. They challenge, manipulate and delinquent because they think they can do it. And the citizenry is tired of these outbursts, of these blackmails, of these practices more peculiar to mafias than to companies. That is why, because they, the elites, increasingly notice that discontent and anger of the people to whom they steal them, is why they say that we cannot talk about rich and poor. Mr Garamendi now commands us not to talk about rich and poor, that society cannot be divided between rich and poor. Without precedent, we agree with him, because, in fact, there are no rich and poor, there are poor because the rich like them impoverish the majority; there are poor because rich like them plunder the majority; there are poor because their businesses earn thousands and billions of dollars a year at the cost of the ever-higher bills paid by the majority; there are poor because they, the rich, defraud and evade taxes, weakening public services; there are poor because they, the heads of IBEX, are the ones who dictate labour policies based on free and free dismissal; there are poor because they, the rich, owners of vulture funds and banks, make housing a business; there are poor because 1% of the richest in this state accumulate the same wealth as the poorest 50%; in short, there are poor because the rich, that 1%, accumulates and grabs the wealth generated by the other 99%. That is why Mr Garamendi, Mr Rajoy and Mr González, along with all the right and far-right political and media, are afraid to talk about rich and poor, because they know, they are very aware that if that 99%, those working and popular classes, those impoverished by their policies, awaken, become aware and organize, their privileges are in danger. That is why it is so important to continue denouncing, pointing out to those responsible for all this and demanding that the social divide and economic injustice that they generate be brought to an end. [[The lady]] That is why it is so important to make structural decisions that change this model and put the social well-being of the majority at the centre in the face of the privileges of the minority, because while a few accumulate riches impossible to spend in a hundred lives, many others will not even be able to live a dignified one. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, a system that works like this is a failed system. I'm on my way. Yesterday was October 12th, the day of waving flags, walking the military and showing national pride. All those I have mentioned, from Mr Garamendi to Mrs Botín, would celebrate it all the time, together with the military and security forces, together with the king imposed by a dictator and the fascists now sitting in seats, together with the judicial domes and the leaders of the mass media. [[a Member of Parliament: Hala!]] All to one for Spain, they say. We didn't do it, because all that - as I have said on some occasion - has a name: regime of 78, and yesterday it was shown in all its expression. We, the left-wing sovereignists, do not recognize ourselves in all of them, just as we are sure that millions of citizens of this state are not recognized who, regardless of their national sentiment, believe that it is time to break with that inheritance, to lift that mortgage that still holds the oppression on the workers and on the nations of this state. Because it is that regime of 78 in all its expressions: the economic, the monarchy, the military or the judiciary, which denies a better, fairer and dignified future, not only to our societies and peoples, but also to the social and working majority of this State which, we are sure, longs for a future with more rights and freedoms for all and for all. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, there are people who have been surprised that you have played the leading role in a television series like The West Wing of the White House, but in Moncloa version, that is, with a lot more extras, because you in three years have registered five hundred new advisors and positions of trust for your government. Never before had a government presidency been so expensive to us, Your Honor. I already knew that you had great dowries as an actor, you have made unforgettable roles. I still remember someone especially exciting, like when you said that you would never bargain with those very bad people in Bildu, or that there would never be a pardon for those Catalans so disobedient, or that you would never bring Paul Churches into government because with that man next door you would never be able to sleep quiet at night. A very good performance, Mr. Sanchez. So I'm not surprised that for next year you want to play the lead role in another film, Robin Hood, you know, the one that was stealing from the rich to give to the poor. I thought that role had been taken by Pablo Iglesias, but now it turns out Robin Hood wants to steal the votes from Podemos, and that's where we are. The problem with Spain is not wealth, Mr Sánchez, it is poverty; the problem is that we are losing middle class; the problem is that families cannot bear the cost of inflation in the shopping basket, in school materials, in fuels, in the cost of living, and that there are more and more people every day who realize that, although they have jobs, they are malliving or not coming to the end of the month. You are so calm, but Europe is at real risk of a huge crisis this winter, one that can cause a disaster in the economies of the countries that form the heart of the European Union. Are you not aware that if the German or British economy suffers from a slowdown there are areas of Spain dependent on tourism, such as the Canary Islands, which can have a brutal impact on its economy? Mr Sánchez, I tell you today, prepare a contingency plan for the economies of the island territories that have a high tourist dependency, because it will be the first to collapse if an energy crisis occurs next winter and next year, as all international agencies have been saying for 48 hours. To us, the Canary Islands, there will be no cold; misery will come to us. I ask you, but I have lost the hope that you will listen to the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands. Either they don't understand us, or they care about a pepper. I don't know what's wrong with them. What I do know, Your Honor, is that next year the workers of the Peninsula will have free transportation and the Canary Islands will not, you have excluded them, Your Honor. What I do know, President, is that next year the Canary Islands will be back in line with the direct investments of the State, in breach of the Canary Islands Economic and Fiscal Regime Act, which is a right. What I do know is that every week dozens of immigrants die on their canary route, and that you, Mr Sánchez, are able to go to dinner with the king of Morocco and presume that this has fixed the problem. But the dead are yelling at him that's not true. What I do know, Mr Sánchez, is that La Palma dies and the promised aid does not arrive and there is no funding for a reconstruction plan in these budgets for the next three years. What I do know is that every day we have more families coming to the food banks and to Caritas, every week they raise the prices of the shopping basket. Outside there is a Spain that is becoming poorer. If you really want to be Robin Hood, the first thing you have to do is get the minimum living income to everyone who needs it. Do what you have to do to get it done. Half of those who are entitled in the Canary Islands have not been able to access the minimum living income, and for those who earn it in the courts you have to appeal it again. It's not getting to half the people planned. You said that you were going to deal with the most vulnerable and that your government would be that of modernization and change, but today you have said everything you have done and again announced important measures, such as those Community boilers, which do not exist in the Canary Islands, such as trains in the vicinity, such as gas. They do not exist, and we are going to support it so that the rest of the citizens of this country will have such aid, but make anti-inflation policies also adapted to the island territories, Mr Sánchez. The sad truth is that the only thing that has changed is that today we are poorer than yesterday, but less than tomorrow. Canaries needs it, we have a great opportunity in those budgets so that Canaries can also have a chance in the stormy times that come. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Clearly, it already smells like elections here. This morning we saw the president of the government becoming practically a child of San Ildefonso, taking out millions of balls without knowing very well what other ball to marry; Bildu Talking about peace; the Republican Left, who no longer cares about independence and now cares about the price of artichokes, bananas, sardines, tomatoes, and the PNV, as always, wanting to arbitrate. It is clear that the scenario is electoral. And the truth is that the Spaniards will be grateful that the President of the Government came here to explain real measures and to give some other explanation, and not to do a fairly popular rally, on the other hand, and quite tumbler, like the one he did this morning here, and above all to be a little more attached to real Spain. Today we have been presented with a Spain that, in your opinion, is not so bad, when we are the only country in the whole of the European Union that has not managed to reach the pre-pandemic levels of GDP, and that is not the worst, it is that although we create its figures - which, by the way, are only believed by you - we will not do it in 2022 or 2023 or probably in 2024, with figures that are not believed either by the International Monetary Fund, nor by the Bank of Spain, nor by the European Commission, nor by CaixaBank, nor by Funcas, and could continue. So, Mr President, we would ask you to stop living in a parallel Spain, to come down from that dream in which you levitate and finally come down to real Spain; a Spain in which the Spaniards cannot pay for electricity, gas or gasoline; a Spain where people are going to make the purchase and cannot buy the products they previously bought because they have been shot; a Spain that lives with fear because you do not know if next month you are going to be able to pay for the mortgage, that Spain you are not offering solutions because you only know how to improvise and you are not giving explanations because you believe that you are above good and evil. You think so much that you are above the good and evil that you were able to get late yesterday to the national parade. We are leaving a country where public debt grows every day EUR 190 million, where we are going to spend this year EUR 31 billion only on paying interest on debt, where we only increase the generational gap, where young people are not only not being offered opportunities for the present, but are being built into a bad future, and where people are suffocated to pay taxes, because here, the more you consume, the more you pay; the more you work, the more you pay. That you create a job? You also pay, quotes. He who dies, pays; he who inherits, pays; he who invests, pays; he who saves, also pays. And everything for what? For the government to spend money. People are tired of being suffocated to taxes so that you are unable to improve a single social service. He comes here and gives us a class of health or education, but why did the collection serve you? Health waiting lists have multiplied by three. You came before to defend public health and the ten-minute consultations in primary care, and now people are happy the day they pick up their phone. And if we talk about education, you will be investing a lot in education, but the truth is that we have twice the OECD average of people without high school and without FP. Obviously, many results you cannot offer. Their budgets are a bottomless sack of electoralism, that's what they are, and they're very far away from real Spain. And that which we have not yet begun to pay for the separatist marketing, which last year cost us 24,000 million in tolls to Esquerra, PNV and Bildu. It is true that this same year comes a little cheaper after your infamous approach and cake with Catalan independence, because I hope that 'I support you there, so that you support me here', at least it costs us cheaper in economic terms, although it is clear that it will cost us much more in democratic terms. You said you didn't do it to rescue Esquerra, you did it to rescue Catalonia. Look, Cataluña is rescued by a project of freedom, equality and democracy in the face of totalitarianism, where the law prevails in the face of nationalist matonism and where diversity is not annihilated by the sectarian homogenization of a nationalism that wants to decide who lives in Catalonia and who does not. You, instead of fighting that, have become your main valiant and that is the worst legacy you are going to leave Spain. Finally, I'll tell you about Navarra. Navarra is a community that is being denied and despised by her Government, of course with the absolute complicity of President Chivite, who has worn her Socialist T-shirt long before wearing her Navarra T-shirt. Once again, we are one of the communities that receives less investment per capita. But it's not just that, it's much worse: we have 25 million investments and 40 million contributions, so we make a bread with cakes - as we say in my people -. Moreover, Mr Sánchez, not only that, the investments that put in the budgets year after year leave them unimplemented. I can tell you about the high-speed train, the Navarra Canal and so on. It is a total contempt for our community. And I won't tell you anything now if we talk about the European funds. Mrs Chivite announced 125 projects and EUR 3400 million, and the other day her government gave the figure of 335, which is not even 10% of what it seemed to be coming. You'll give me the calendar and you'll tell me when we'll see them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u51	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u52	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it must be acknowledged that with the recent fall in Europe in relation to the price of energy, electricity and gas, Spain and the Spanish position are not the worst. It must also be said that the European Commission has not done its duty well and has had to send it to make some concrete proposal in accordance with the conditions in this matter. The Spanish proposals and measures are fine, there are many - you have summed them up here and also advanced them at the Energy Sector Conference the Vice President - but I take the opportunity to repeat what you have been saying for a long time in this forum: that it would be very convenient for the electricity bill to have a minimum consumption for households and small businesses at a fixed price. We are still waiting for the bills for light and heating not to be an outburst every month for families. This is a perfectly interoperable sector, it is proven. Moreover, it can be done in a universal way because universal systems, although some criticize them, have advantages: first, they include the middle class, which are many millions of Spaniards, and second, they eliminate fraud. In addition, you have first set the example of health and recently that of public transport, which are universal systems. What hurts people the most is the daily purchase and the monthly expenses and the progressiveness is best achieved by means of income, taxes. And, speaking of taxes, now that the reform of tax rules and harmonisation is also on the European agenda, Mr President, you should convene the Conference of Presidents of Autonomous Communities as soon as possible to try to coordinate and listen to everyone on this issue, about this chaos that is being organised recently with the tax rebates announced. It is the same thing that you say about the European Council and the desirability of coordination between European countries, but in Spain, because both the control of the unorthodox rise in energy costs and the issue of this tax harmonisation are two issues that citizens are demanding. Many have registered in another autonomous community to avoid the payment of inheritance or property tax, something that is already fraudulent. In Cantabria we have this debate right now, and you know that the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, in addition to defending Cantabria's interests, always defends the equality of the Spaniards. We are in solidarity with all and respect all the peculiarities of the autonomous but also constructive communities. There are, therefore, issues on which we believe that there is a general interest above the individual. These two visions, the general interest and the commitments to Cantabria will be key in the approval of the next budgets for 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. The next item is Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, I share the good news of the creation of a new area of cooperation and dialogue called the European Political Community, which brought together forty-four countries and which is a sign of strength in this war period begun with the criminal invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops. Such a space, Mr Sánchez, should have its equivalence in Spain in order to face the poor socio-economic drift of our country, starting by not shirking the opposition, which bases its activity on defending the Constitution and not on demolishing it, as its anti-Spanish partners are incurring. Exactly three months ago, the holding of the debate on the state of the nation ended with the adoption of different resolutions of political orientation to the Government, which reflect the concerns of this House that democratically represents citizens. However, the decisions of the Council of Ministers ignore them and exacerbate the territorial discrimination that affects the north-west peninsula, and more specifically Asturias, a community in which, among other major differences with Spain and with the Europe of the 21st century, its rail isolation from the high-speed network is perpetuated, the incorporation of the major ports of El Musel and Avilés into the trans-European transport networks is postponed, the lack of road infrastructure of the regional south-west is ignored, or the primary sector is hit, bringing the farmers to the slaughter of their milk cows and leaving the fishermen helpless before the Community vetoes of the bureaucrats of scaquarto ecologicalism, the last on bottom fishing. Mr Sánchez, you referred in self-congratulation to energy, although the Spaniards are suffering from the disturbing consequences of the erratic management of your Government that impoverishes the present socio-economic and our immediate future. The very high energy costs suffocate the whole of society without exception, but in the case of industry, which is key to GDP, it is reflected in a continuous cut in production and a drop in jobs that have dragged Spain to the wake of unemployment in the European Union. Mr Sánchez, what has your government done in the European Council? We have been waiting for Brussels for years to implement a tariff that will allow us to compete in terms of equality with Asian countries or for the reduction of CO2 emissions. In short, they are all matters of emergency to prevent the destruction of the productive fabric in Asturias and to reverse its depopulation, the abandonment of the rural environment, the ageing and the lack of employment opportunities for the youngest, condemned to an incessant exodus in search of work. His Government should already apply to the work, fulfilling its own commitments in Asturias, which, with a low of 22 per cent during the first half of this year, is one of the autonomous communities with the lowest investment execution in the whole State. Once again, I place you on the task. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, we welcome the commitment you have just announced for the implementation of the operating aid for Soria, Teruel and Cuenca. We hope that this will happen immediately and that the economic and social scope will also be realized. For example, we believe that it should also be applied with the self-employed, who are the majority economic fabric. We also consider that it shares that depopulation is not irreversible, that it is not a problem without a solution. We hope that this analysis, that principle, will become policies and concrete measures. With regard to the plan for more energy security, the Government must also turn its words into facts: prioritizing self-consumption and distributed generation and controlling the price of gas for all users, including neighbouring communities. In addition, it should accept the proposal to boost municipally owned energy storage. Likewise, we ask you for consistency and honesty in order to rigorously and convincingly enforce the laws passed, as well as the positions held by the Government itself in its speeches and votes in Congress. It would sometimes be said that the Government ignores the agreements it has signed in its own parliamentary groups, as has recently happened with the annex to the order where the report of the consultative commission for the determination of the headquarters of the future Spanish Space Agency is published; annex that contradicts articles of the law itself on science, articles of the order itself and also the motion approved by you, last 23 June, when they fixed the characteristics of the locality for the headquarters of the agency. These features show the contradiction between what is said to be assumed and what is actually done. For example, the requirement for international commercial flights determined at one hour's distance, or the requirement to have AVE in the locality itself, erases any trace of principles of territorial cohesion that upholds the law. The combination of these criteria leaves Teruel, of course, but also any empty Spanish locality and the vast majority of metropolitan areas. Why is that decision made, supported by unwarranted service needs? The same contradiction occurs in the application of the content of the investment agreement with Teruel Existe, which has barely met 40%. Mr President, this agreement must be fully implemented in the last year of the legislature. For example, the Talgo 730 hybrid, as much as the commitment is reiterated, and despite being a cost-0 measure, it is neither announced nor put into service on the Teruel line. Or the National Museum of Ethnography, with 2.5 million euros in budgets and that we are still waiting for. Mr President, know that in Teruel and in Aragon all citizens expect the fulfillment of their commitments, even those leaders who do not join the agreement they signed with Teruel Existe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u58	Thank you, President. Thank you, President, for appearing once again in this House, although the truth is that you do not rent your winnings because it doesn't matter what you come to talk about and what you come to propose, because you always get the same from the right: a rosary of disqualifications and not a single proposal. In fact, this very morning he said he was also listening to the insults of this bench. No wonder, because one is the only thing he does, because it's the only thing he knows how to do: insult, disqualify and scream. [[Applauds]] Anti-politics. That's right, all very moderate, all very constructive. High-level, high-altitude policy for times of difficulty. The more unity is needed, the more efforts are needed, the more important the political cohesion of our country in order to face a crisis, the worse it is not that the right is not, is that it is not even expected. I know that they are having a hard time, because it is very hard to assume that the policies, the answers that are being given to the crisis in the European Union and in Spain, in essence, are an amendment to the whole of everything that they imposed on us in the previous crisis. The president has started speaking for Europe. Let's talk about Europe. In the previous crisis, politics in Europe was dictated by black men who imposed on us all the commandments of neoliberal catechism that you so much applaud. It came to be called austereicide. And the invisible hands of Adam Smith, who have names and surnames, played with the lives of millions of people and left entire countries, especially the countries of southern Europe, to their fate. Fortunately, we have moved from neoliberal catechism to the social-democratic exit. And I can proudly say, even with pride of country, that virtually all the policies that the European Union is defending in order to deal with the crisis have been put on the table by our President, Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Because if more than EUR 700 billion is allocated in Europe today so that member countries can help their citizens and transform their economies, it is because Pedro Sánchez has been calling for a new European Marshall Plan from the minute on. The PP went to Brussels to boycott and ask that the funds not reach Spain. [[Applauds]] It was Pedro Sánchez who proposed to take the gas price on the electric bill and got the Iberian exception. And that is what Europe wants to do today everywhere, except the People's Party, which says that if they rule in Spain, they would take it away. Pedro Sánchez was the one who talked about intervening in the energy market and that is what is being studied at the moment, but to Mr Feijóo this seems to be a Stalinist measure. It was the President who proposed a temporary tax on big fortunes and big companies, and that is what the European Central Bank and, just yesterday, the International Monetary Fund said. Dangerous Communists! But this, the leader of the opposition, seems to him to be killing his rich friends. Even when the contingency plan was proposed to save energy that today, corrected and increased, is the one that exists in all European countries, you said that of 'Madrid does not go out', in a statement of your solidarity with the whole of Spain and Europe. [[Applauds]] That's what they do with everything. In short, policies in the European Union today are defined by the leadership of Pedro Sánchez. The People's Party has been left alone in Europe today and has simply done the ridiculous thing, which is just what is not to be done in politics, as Tarradellas said. [[Applauds]] But here, in Spain, there is more of the same. Let's compare. In the 2008 crisis, the PP Government cut welfare, public services, and 8 billion more in social policies by 27.3 billion. When unemployment increased, benefits and unemployment benefits were cut by more than 15%, leaving those who had lost everything helpless. He made a labor reform that reduced dismissal, and, of course, he got fired, and that with garbage contracts, with wages of misery, he got seven million working women and poor workers in Spain. Pensions rose by 0.25 % and, while the pensioners lost purchasing power one year yes and another year, more than €60 billion was emptied that left the evil government of Zapatero in the Social Security hut. [[Applauds]] He cut scholarships, in research, in investments. But that, however much they repeat the opposite now and again, has raised all taxes, all of them, especially VAT, which is the one that most affects the middle classes and the working classes. He even set a sun tax and, in addition, increased public debt in Spain by more than EUR 500 billion. [[Applauds]] In other words, it cut the welfare state and public services to pieces; it emptied the pension hut; it lowered the wages of public employees; it cut dependency, social benefits, until it left them in the bones; it abandoned the productive economy; it raised all taxes, and still increased the public debt by 30%. Don't tell me you don't have to have a special skill for this. This is indeed the economic miracle of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In the previous crisis, the People's Party cut everything it could and then gave it to the banks. That's the Spanish right: save the capital and abandon everyone else. [[A Member: What a barbarity!]] What a difference and pride for progressives to have a government that radically does the opposite, that implements radically different measures and policies. The latest measures are contained in budgets that allocate more than EUR 275 billion to social investment, to strengthen the welfare state and public services, to protect citizens and to combat inequality. Never in history has so much money been spent to help people in Spain. But there are also more than 30 billion for the change of productive model: 16,300 in R & D+i, 12 000 in real investments... Mr Esteban, I am also not going to talk about budgets because they will have their time and debate, but it is clear that the big numbers tell us that these are the accounts that Spain needs by 2023, because they protect citizens, middle and working classes, weave the largest solidarity network ever seen for the most vulnerable, help the productive economy to continue creating wealth and employment in Spain, and transform the country to make it greener, more digital, more competitive and more self-sufficient. First of all, what has it occurred to you to say to the right? You put an alternative on the table? Have you made any proposals? What's going on? They have said that they are electoral budgets and that they are made to buy votes. But is that really a great contribution to what Spanish society needs in times of crisis? How far does your great solvency, your good faith go? Is that how you want to be an alternative? As the Secretary General of Workers' Commissions said, Unai Sordo: but who do you believe to consider that pensioners, public employees, fellows, dependents, the unemployed, all those who benefit from these budgets are like lambs who have their vote for sale and are offered to the highest bidder? But what country do they live in? [[Applauds]] Maybe they're too used to buying wills with envelopes, and that's how it goes. [[Applauds]] By the way, I have to repeat something that the President of the Government has already said and that they are not going to like anything: all this is going to be financed with European funds and taxes. Yes, with taxes, with progressive taxation, that constitutional concept that you like so little, and that just means the more you have to contribute. And since you don't like it, you, despite the blah, blah, blah, blah, where you rule, have done just the opposite: you have used the taxes so that those who have more have more. While giving gifts to those already privileged, they cut off the welfare state and public services, which are the guarantee that everyone else can face a minimum of certainty and dignity in the career of life. Because without public health, without public education, without a public pension system, without social benefits, there is no equal opportunity. [[Applauds]] Social democracy always understood that a person cannot be free or equal if he is a slave to necessity. From there emerged the welfare state after the Second World War, to provide, to meet the basic needs of a defeated citizenship. Because yes, Mr Abascal, it was the social democracy that set up the welfare state and all you want to do is destroy it. [[Applauds]] In addition, middle classes exist because there is a welfare state, because it is public resources that bear large social costs and enable middle classes to save and prosper. I'm just going to give you a piece of information, so you can understand this. A family, in which parents have completed a career at the public university and their two children, involves an investment by the State in education and health over their entire life of more or less EUR 1 300 000. Could you pay it with your taxes in your pocket? For that is the real middle class, financed by the solidarity taxes of all; if not, it would not exist. That's the middle and working class you don't defend, because you're demolishing the welfare state that makes it possible and you do it because your bet is another, your model is private insurance, private schools, private pension plans, everything for your friends to do private business with public needs. [[Applauds]] A very clear example is Madrid, the community where less public money is invested in health and education, but where more is spent on private health. Fortunately, the progressive government is the great advocate of the public and uses taxation to fight inequality, redistributes resources so that it has more people who need it most and distributes the burdens so that it provides more people who have it most. Tax justice to achieve social justice. Because we are not going to allow the progress of a few to walk on the misery of many, which is what you seek permanently. [[Applauds]] And if not, we see it. Andalusia, where they have forgiven the wealth tax to the great fortunes, is on the line in health investment and the new school year has started with almost 1200 fewer classes in the educational centers and half of the places to strengthen teachers. In Madrid, Ayuso's tax haven, there are 37 emergency primary care services that have been closed for two years, have fired more than 6000 health care workers and the course has started with 1000 places of secondary school teachers less. In Galicia in Feijóo, where they want to improve the 7,500 people who have a wealth of more than 6 million to pay half of what they pay now, they have closed almost 150 schools, cut 900 hospital beds and more than 1100 health personnel. I could go on, but this is the cruelty of the truth: their joyful tax cuts to those who have the most are cutting off the dignity of everyone else's lives. [[Applauds]] And the question is, why do you think it's okay for them to always lose the same ones? Why do sacrifices always have to fall on the same backs? The answer is very simple, because they are not yours. Do not come to me with empty words or empty speeches, the facts are there to prove what I say: ERTE, against; labour reform, against; rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, against; increase in scholarships, aids to transport and transporters, bonus for rent, cultural bonus, against; minimum living income, against; rise in pensions with the CPI, against. By the way, don't be fooled anymore by this matter, because your leader, Mr. Feijóo, uses peripheral phrases to escape when asked about pensions. But in my village it is said 'white and bottled'. You do not want to raise pensions; you want to lower pensions with the excuse that they are not sustainable, but say it at once. They have protested against everything that has helped the citizens of this country, that is, they have not defended workers, they have not defended pensioners, young people, women and families. And I am not going to say that they have not defended anyone because they have defended someone, they have defended the usual, the privileged, the powerful. [[Laughs.-Mr.De Olano Vela: It's a joke]] But the reality - without laughing - is here. When they push the button and say temporary tax on energy and financial companies, they vote against; temporary tax on big fortunes, against; Iberian exception, which has saved 10 billion consumers, against - sometime will bill more - against the fact that corporation tax is approaching the nominal; against the fact that taxation is not based exclusively on labour income. It doesn't matter what they count. [[Applauds]] The facts show that even though they say they represent their millions of voters, they do not represent and defend more than 0.2% of the country's citizens. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, the Government is concerned and concerned about all others. There is not a single person in Spain who has not been benefited by any measure of this Government, except the friends of Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, as he told us the other day. The rest, all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the people's government, a government to protect and transform, and a government that, despite its shrieks, has the backing of the social majority of this country, and will continue to do so. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from a number of members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a few minutes off. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] I now give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the tone of the debate, except for some - in the end - common interventions. I believe that in this context - and I have always said this - since the war began, we are never going to put warm cloths in the government, nor are we going to hide the complexity of the challenge we face, in any case I think it is important to move a message of confidence in the possibilities and strengths of the Spanish economy, which are many, and they are, as I said at the end of my first intervention, superior to those we had in previous crises, precisely because of what the private sector is doing, because of what the workers are doing and also because of what we are doing in the Spanish government. In response to some of the questions raised by the various spokespersons, I will logically start with the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gamarra, who was reflecting and asking a series of rhetorical questions about whether we are better today than we were four years ago. It forgets that, indeed, we have suffered a pandemic, not Spain, but the whole world; and also that right now, particularly in Europe, we are suffering a war. If we go to the data, and therefore not to the opinion, we can agree, Mrs Gamarra, that the fact that a country is better or worse means that there is more or less employment compared to when we arrive at the government. Notice, in 2018, in May, that was the last month that you ruled, there were around 18,915,000 Spanish and Spanish members of Social Security, and today we are at 20,200,000 members of Social Security. The number of unemployed when you were ruling was around 3,250 000 in May 2018 and today we are at 2,922,000 unemployed. In other words, we have an unemployment rate of 13% that we did not have since before the financial crisis, ladies and gentlemen. With you in the government we get to have 30% rates, and you left the unemployment rate about 19%. The youth unemployment rate when you left the government, ladies and gentlemen, was 38%. Today it is still high, it is one of the tasks of the Spanish economy, but it will not deny me that 30% is less than 38%. The participation of women in social security left you at 46% and today it is at 47%. The temporary rate of contracts was 26% with you and 24% with us; the indefinite recruitment when you were in government was 10% and today is 48.18%. The interprofessional minimum wage when you were ruling left it at 735.90 euros a month and today it is at 1000 euros a month. And the average retirement pension when you were ruling left it at 1082 euros and today it's at 1254 euros. [[Applauds]] These are data, Your Honor, they are not opinions, they are data. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are doing with a pandemic and, I insist, with a war in Europe, and with obviously very high economic and social consequences. You always subscribe to catastrophism when you are in opposition; I think this is one of the usual tonics of the People's Party when you are in opposition. You have labeled this government illegitimate; you do so indirectly constantly, for example, by saying what are the parliamentary support with which we draw this or that law. And the question that has been asked on many occasions by the spokesman for the Socialist Group would be why you do not support legislation, progress or measures in response to these serious consequences of rising prices that benefit citizens alike. There are many measures, such as the solidarity tax on big fortunes, which is supported by more than 70% of the population. I would like 70% of the population to look to the left or vote for progressives, but of course we are also talking about people who can vote for the People's Party or other conservative options. You constantly invoke the apocalypse. The first apocalypse was in the worst of the pandemic, when you predicted - look, I had it pointed out here - that the ERTE were going to send half of Spain to unemployment. That's what you said in the middle of the pandemic, Your Honor, with the ERTE! What has happened in reality? What has actually happened is that we have protected 4,400,000 workers in two years, allowing most of them to return to their business and have protected their jobs. The second apocalypse is that we are not going to reach 70% of the immune population. Your Honor, we arrived in time and form, as was the commitment that the then Minister of Health and I expressed, and now we are starting with the fourth booster dose against the omicron. Third apocalypse: you, Mrs Gamarra, argued that labor reform - you said it in text - was delusional and that it would result in massive destruction of employment. The reality, Your Honor, is not giving you reason. There are more than 20 million workers affiliated with Social Security, 13.5 million of these workers enjoy stable contracts, indefinite contracts, thanks to a labor reform that this government agreed with employers and trade unions and that you voted against, except for an honourable exception. Fourth apocalypse: they continue to proclaim that the pension system is going to collapse, that the revaluation of pensions is not viable. I want to tell you one thing, Your Honor, because if you, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has said before, want to say to the clears that break the Toledo Pact, say so. In November 2020, Your Honor, you were the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group with another leader of the People's Party, Mr Married, there are things that do not change. No, but if I say it... if I say it... [[a Member: Spokesperson for the PSOE no]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u62	Don't bother so much, don't jump like that. The only thing I am saying, Your Honor, is that in November 2020 the renewal of the Toledo Pact was agreed, and in the second recommendation it is stated that pensions should be revalued in accordance with the CPI. The only group that voted against revaluing pensions under the CPI is the party of the humble people, Mr Abascal and the Parliamentary Group of VOX, who, of course, always vote against what benefits the social majority of this country. You voted in favour. If you now say that you do not agree to revalue pensions under the CPI, go up here and say that it breaks the Toledo Pact. [[Applauds.-Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo: No]] Yes, yes, they are, Your Honor; you are doing so by opening the door not to comply with the second recommendation of the Toledo Pact that you voted in favour. Yes, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] That's right. Well, tell me here that you are in favour of upgrading pensions according to the CPI. Because as we listen to your leader and other accredited economic spokespersons of your party, you are not in favour of revaluing pensions under the CPI. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado: Not clear]] And I do not say this for us, for the Government of Spain, that we are clear what your position is, I say this for the economics manager you have in the PP now, who was formerly the Economics Advisor at the Board of Andalusia, who has clearly said that he is not in favour of revaluing pensions under the CPI. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: It's not true, he didn't say that.]] Yes, he did; he did. And Mr. Feijoo too. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u63	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Mr. De Olano, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u64	You will realize that there is an equivocal position, which is not being well explained and, therefore, the only thing we ask, on behalf of the pensioners of this country, is for you to tell us if you follow what you voted on in November 2020, which is to revalue pensions under the CPI. The fifth apocalypse is that says Mrs Gamarra that Spain breaks. Your Honor, when a unilateral declaration of independence was adopted in the Parliament of Catalonia it was during a government of the People's Party, which, by the way, had the support of the main opposition party to give a united response to that challenge; and unfortunately, the legacy that we find ourselves in a constitutional and institutional crisis in Catalonia did not count on the solidarity or co-responsibility of the People's Party when it passed to the opposition. [[Applauds]] This is a point of the PP when it is in the opposition, but that is not why we have to give it up, but we have to denounce it by making a reading, as you do, so particular and so on the part of the Spanish Constitution and how it should be defended. Mrs Gamarra says that we are forgetting the young people, which has been one of the tonics that has also vertebrated Mrs Arrimadas' speech. Your Honor, with regard to young people - by the way, with a job reform that you did not vote for - what we have done has been to reduce the temporaryity of those workers under 35 years of age by 11%. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, this is the lowest of 17.5 % since 1987. Something will have to do with the labour reform approved by this government. If we go to the case of those under the age of 30, this fall is not 11%, it is 26.2%. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about a very positive effect on the indefinite recruitment and stability of a very important social group in our country, which, of course, suffered from insecurity as a result of the counter-work reform that you approved and which, fortunately, we are beginning to overcome. You say that there are no policies for young people and I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that there are more than EUR 24 billion that we are devoting to scholarships to promote and consolidate equal opportunities for young people. We are not doing, as your Government does here in Madrid, to approve scholarships for the rich, which is quite contrary to the philosophy of scholarships and equal opportunities. We are adopting and consolidating a cultural bonus that empowers young people on how to use these resources to foster an industry as important as culture; we are also consolidating the rent subsidy and a long one, Your Honor. I honestly believe, and I said this in my first speech, that there has been no government in Spain, and here are the figures, which more public policies and more economic resources are putting in the hands of young people to reduce one of the inequalities to which I referred earlier, which is precisely intergenerational inequality. Another classic by Mrs Gamarra and the People's Party is the racca racca de la collectación. What they tell us is that the state is being fed, as Mr Feijóo told us, and that all this is a fiscal hell, but they forget one very important thing, and that is that 50% of the collection of the personal income tax, VAT and much of the excise duty, where does it end, Your Honor? Shall I tell him? In the hands of the autonomous communities. Who's lining up, too? The autonomous presidents of the governments of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] Man, a little serious. Because you come here and say an argument that doesn't sympathize with reality. That there has been a 19% increase in collection? Yes, there has been. It should also be remembered that more than EUR 35 billion have been committed by the end of the year to alleviate the effects of inflation as a result of the war in Ukraine. Of that 19%, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the evolution of inflation accumulated throughout the year, there are 6 points; that is, of 19, you have to remove 6 as a result of inflation; there are 13. These 13 are the result of strong economic growth and job creation, which is precisely stable, dignified, with better wages and which makes us more remunerated. Therefore, Your Honor, we are not talking about inflation, we are talking about economic growth, job creation and the dignity of job creation in our country as a result of the important labour reform that we have adopted. You come here and say that we are not approving tax cuts. You were reminded earlier by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group that you went up fifty. You say that since I am President of the Government I have raised 27 taxes. I'll have to talk to the Minister of Finance and Public Service to tell me if it's twenty-seven, twenty-four or twenty-eight, that I don't know, but I understand that all of them are less than fifty. Of course, if you count in those twenty-seven or twenty-eight or twenty-four the solidarity tax on the big fortunes, the tax on the big energy, the tax on the big financial institutions, raise the company type to at least 15%, we are actually doing it because we believe in tax justice and that is quite different from what you did when you ruled this country. [[Applauds]] Of course, you continue with the deflation mantra, but let us go to the tax reform that this government has proposed, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that it is a tax reform that protects the middle class and the working class. Look, of course, at those net assets above EUR 3 million we are going to require this tax of solidarity to the great fortunes. And ladies and gentlemen, in addition to all that we have done in the gas VAT, in the light VAT, in the end, in all this effort that benefits the middle class and the working class, we have proposed a 50% reduction in the personal income tax... pardon, a 50% reduction in the personal income tax - in this I want to be scrupulous - to help those who need it most. What the government is going to do is to reduce by working income and make this tax benefit, for example, apply to gross incomes of up to EUR 18,000, and it is going to extend and increase the reduction to EUR 21,000, and you will have to tell us whether or not you agree with this measure that will benefit 50% of workers with less income who taxed the income tax on natural persons. You avoid saying, Your Honor, that we are also proposing savings to self-employed workers with an additional 5 percentage points reduction in the income tax on natural persons in the net yield of modules. In other words, this will mean that 577,688 self-employed workers will be saved EUR 68 million. Are you or are you not in agreement with these measures, ladies and gentlemen? I think it would be important for citizens to be clear what their position is. By the way, on public debt, really, check the data, because they make it very easy. Look, when Mariano Rajoy came to the presidency of the government, the public debt was increased by 30 points; by 30 points, Your Honor. In 2019 we cut public debt to 98%, and the forecast we have is to leave it at the end of the legislature by about 110%. You will understand that 10 is less than 30 and that this government is therefore committed to fiscal consolidation, and not like you, that every time you govern what you do is to raise public debt to absolutely stratospheric limits. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be good if you, who are asking the Spanish Government so much to rectify, and who say that we are only right when we are wrong, could for once in your life recognize that you have been wrong, that the Iberian solution is a solution that has led to savings for the citizens of our country of EUR 28 billion and that it is a solution that the European Commission is saying is going to extend to all European countries. Because of the confidentiality of the European Councils, I am not going to say which countries were asking me to extend the Iberian solution to their economies, but I can now assure you, Your Honor, that they are also conservative governments led by the People's Party. With this, I only ask you to stop talking about the Iberian thyme and say that you were indeed wrong and that the Iberian solution is a good solution for Spain and for the whole of Europe's economies. [[Applauds]] They were wrong, Your Honor. They were wrong about everything they have done saying no to crisis response measures, and they have also, logically, been wrong about what I have said to them. About pensions, I said what I had to say. Man, about reviewing energy policy, I was worried and very much one of these talks that Mr. Feijoo had with Mr. Aznar at the FAES Foundation, and you have re-explained it here. What they come to say is that, in the end, this has become difficult, that we are at a complex time, that we have to be serious and that, therefore, this whole green energy transition agenda we are going to put aside, which we have to postpone because the important thing is to strengthen the status quo. You have spoken again about nuclear power plants, the last time I had occasion to appear I told you the cost of nuclear power plants, which is a solution that in the best case we would have in fifteen years' time and therefore does not solve the urgency of the present. But I was concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party are saying no to the green energy transition, because when you were ruling we already know what you did, here it has been remembered: you put a sun tax. It may even seem a little eccentric in a country with as much sun as Spain, but why did you put a sun tax on it? Why did you stop the self-consumption - and with this I answer to Mr. Echenique? Because you wanted to consolidate a status quo and not democratise the energy market in our country. That's what they did. Why did you cut the remuneration of renewables retroactively - retroactively, Your Honor - with awards that we have inherited from more than EUR 10 billion in international courts? Because you wanted to derail the process of energy transition and expansion of renewables in our country. [[Applauds]] Why did you propose a moratorium, if not, on the development of renewable energies? Finally, may you come and talk now that we have to improve our energy sovereignty, that we have to boost the development of renewables, welcome to the club, Your Honor, welcome to the club, but come in with all the consequences, do not say that they will postpone the entire energy transition, because Spain has a great opportunity if we derail this energy policy, yes: the great opportunity to become an energy power exporting in green, with green hydrogen. [[Rumors]] Yes, Your Honor, yes. I will simply give you a data, Your Honor, which I also believe demonstrates the commitment of the Government of Spain and the correctness that we have had, and the deployment over the past four years: for each megawatt of solar power installed in the period 2013 to 2018 - that is, with you in the Government-this Government has put 142; for each, 142, Your Honor. With the Popular Party at the front, in Spain, 1 megawatt of power was installed every ten days; and since 2018, we have installed 10 megawatts every day. These are the credentials, ladies and gentlemen, of the progressive coalition government, and these are their credentials. [[Applauds]] The thing about fishing, Your Honor, it's true. With regard to the problem you were commenting on fishing on the application of the regulation on the protection of vulnerable ecosystems, it is clear - as the Spanish Government has said - that this regulation suffers from severe deficiencies both in the process of preparation and in the process of participation, and also in the assessment of the socio-economic impact, we have said this from the very beginning. So, what is the ministry doing? It is already working on a resource to defend the interests of the sector. It is true that, thanks to the work done in the clarification process - Minister Planas -, the vast majority of the 337 ships affected can continue to fish. The problem is focused on the 59 vessels in the longline fleet. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is monitoring the activities of these vessels on a daily basis in order to analyse any changes that may occur in relation to the same quarter of last year. In any case, I would like to convey to you, Your Honor, that our priority is to protect the sector, to prevent a manifestly unfair rule with serious technical shortcomings from having an impact on employment and on the activity of such an important sector. We will therefore do everything in our power to defend the interests of Spanish fishermen and reverse the consequences of this provision. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, beyond the insults, the disqualifications, in the end, of your usual racca, which does not change regardless of which one is your leader, it seems important to me to recall the proposals I have made here in the gallery and to know what the position of the People's Parliamentary Group is going to be, because today we do not know whether or not you are going to vote in favour of the tax on solidarity of the great fortunes, today the Spanish people do not know whether or not you are going to vote in favour of the tax on the great financial and energy entities. At least I would like you to tell me in this debate, Your Honor, with a yes or a no or, well, if it can be with a 'we'll see', if you will validate a real decree law when we bring it to the next Council of Ministers which says, first of all, that we are going to strengthen the electric social bond by benefiting 1,300,000 households; by increasing, as I said in my first intervention, 15% the amount of energy eligible for a discount and by increasing that percentage to 65 and 80% for the vulnerable and the severely vulnerable. Look, Your Honor, last Tuesday, when the Vice-President of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge presented with data - not with opinions, Your Honor, with data, with evidence - what are the benefits of many of the measures that we are putting in place, there was a graph that caught my attention and I share with all of you, and it is that, as I said in my first intervention, the effect of the measures taken to protect consumers makes vulnerable consumers and severe vulnerable consumers today pay the same as they paid before this energy crisis and this price crisis began. [[shows a graph]] And they speak, for example, of the Iberian thyme, but this is the effect of the measures taken on the price of electricity, Your Honor. [[Displays a graph]] Here's Spain, here's Italy, here's France and here's Germany, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] This is what the Spanish Government is doing with its opposition and despite the fact that the President of the European Commission and many governments of the People's Party and the European People's Party say that the Iberian solution, as a mechanism for market intervention - in this case the gas that generates electricity - is expository. Ladies and gentlemen, think of the country. Forget who approved it and vote in favour! Are you going to vote in favour of temporarily creating a new category of electric consumers entitled to a 40% discount? We'll reach an additional 1,500 000 households. Are you going to vote for or not to strengthen the thermal social bonus in 2022 and 2023 for vulnerable households, doubling the budget in both years? Are you going to vote in favour of making heating and hot water costs in 1 700 000 households with Community gas boilers more protected, extending the protection already granted to regulated tariffs? This is what you have to answer here, Your Honor. I believe that, beyond the debate of disqualification or of saying how bad we do it, the Spaniards deserve a yes or a no - in short, I am asking even a 'we will see' - to these measures which the Spanish Government is approving, which are going to mobilise about EUR 3 billion and which are going to protect 40% of Spain's households. In other words, we are not talking about a few households, but 40% of the households in Spain will benefit from these measures that I announced today at the hearing. An appearance that didn't appeal to some spokespersons. Man, the President of the Government can be criticized for not showing up a lot, but he can be criticized for showing up too much, I think it is already too much. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal, you always present yourselves as the voice of the plain people. You're the ones downstairs and all the others are the ones upstairs. You are 'the ones below'; that is seen every time you vote against raising the minimum wage, against strengthening the welfare state, against these big taxes on big fortunes and big energy entities. It is noted that you are thinking of the ones below and not the ones above. Vote against the rise of the inter-professional minimum wage; vote against a vital minimum income, which you disqualify by calling it 'the paguita', when we are talking about a country that has 2 million children in poverty; vote against employment being stable with labour reform, and you come to the point - in this I have already seen the liberal turn of Mrs Arrimadas - of saying what you said: that the pension system is a pyramidal scam. Pyramid scam, the public pension system, which is a delivery system? Have you explained it well, Mr. Abascal? We contribute and pay with our contributions to today's retirees. [[Rumors]] It's not a pyramidal scam, I don't quite understand what you mean, but I suppose what would bother you is that the alleged fraud had pyramidal form, because in the matter of fraud you're all experts, starting with your spokesman and following up with the unspeakable judge Serrano you presented as a candidate in Andalusia before your last star record that's left out of your party. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you speak of whether we are buying wills or trying to buy wills, with that classist and proud speech that you use. And they also tell us that this Europe does not work and, with this, contradicts what I said at the end of my speech that we have to protect Europe in order to protect Spain. Honestly, Your Honor, I think you're wrong. Europe has come out strengthened from the pandemic, it has come out legitimized. If one looks at Europe's acceptance surveys between the Spanish population and the European population, it is clear that most of them are betting on this Europe, on a Europe that gives a social response to these crises, and not on the Europe that gave the neoliberal response to the financial crisis. We are asking, Your Honor, for an agreement on a migration and asylum pact and it is precisely the governments in which you refer and to which you defend those who are preventing that migration and asylum pact that would benefit - and a lot - that regular migration that you defend and fight - and a lot - against that irregular migration and against the human traffickers that you denounce. So why don't you talk to your fellow adventurers - with Mr Orbán and the Polish Government - and tell them to approve a migration and asylum pact that suits us in Spain? I think, Your Honor, that would be interesting. In any case, we've seen that you've counted in your show with the former President of the United States in a video. Of course, you will be very proud that Trump is the reference you find in the United States, as is Bolsonaro in Brazil, but I will remind you, Your Honor, that this government - and I in particular - the fact that a president of the United States frivolates and banalizes on climate change by taking out the United States, which is the world's first economic power and one of the most polluting, from the Paris Agreement seemed to me an insult to intelligence and an affront to those generations that you claim to defend but that abandons when you reject and disqualifies as religion or climate fanaticism the climate emergency that this government is of course committed to mitigating. [[Applauds]] I, unfortunately, don't go out in many of your videos that make viral on social media and you have to go up here to make a cut that will then put in your video saying that I give 130 million euros to Bill Gates, as I used to give them to... - What is this Hungarian who lives now in the United States? [[Several Members: George Soros]] Suns. I always give money because, of course, I have to put myself in. [[Rumors]] I want to put myself in and, therefore, I have to give money; that's the way it is. Anyway, the thief thinks that everyone is his condition, what are we going to do to him? [[Laughter and applause]] Your Honor, seriously, those 130 million euros aren't going to Bill Gates. Those 130 million euros, Your Honor, go to a fund that has saved 50 million lives and which is part of many governments, which is the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis. [[Applauds]] Do you also reject such policies, Your Honor? Of course we get up when we talk about the welfare state, because, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group said before, public health in this country stood up by a socialist like Ernest Lluch; public education in this country stood up by a gentleman like Maravall, Minister of Socialist Education; the public pension system stood up and consolidated it by Matilde Fernández, a socialist minister; the law of dependency... [[rumors]] [[strong rumors]] [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u65	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u66	...and the equality law was set up by a socialist president like José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applauds]] I do not know why they are scandalized, because indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the past could have been in a very different way if it had not ruled the Socialist Party and ruled the People's Party. [[Rumors]] Well, and with you, I wouldn't have advanced Spain since those dark times. [[Addressing the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] Mr. Echenique I want to tell you that I wish we could get peace. I hope we can achieve peace, Your Honor, but you will recognize that the holding of illegal referendums on Ukrainian territory to unilaterally annex 15% of the Ukrainian nation is not the best way to facilitate a process of diplomatic dialogue. Therefore, Your Honor, what I want to say with this - and, moreover, I have said this on many occasions in the rostrum - is that I have always defended that the two countries which have formed part of the Normandy format and which arrived at the Minsk Agreement between Ukraine and Russia, which are France and Germany, had to continue the work of dialogue and intermediation with Putin. In fact, Your Honor, today I have just read a few statements by President Macron - I do not know if they are from today or yesterday - in which he precisely defends continuing dialogue with Putin, and that is what Europe is doing. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that such a serious fact as that which has deserved the reproach of a very large majority of countries in the General Assembly of the United Nations, unfortunately, invites more pessimism than optimism as to whether these peace talks can be opened, but I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is in that line. On the General Council of the Judiciary, I have told the People's Party on many occasions - its two leaders and also the People's Parliamentary Group - that we must be democratic. The People's Party has put forward proposals for reform of the method of election of the General Council of the Judiciary to this House and have been rejected by a large majority of parliamentary groups, not only by Podemos and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but by many other parliamentary groups. So accept the democratic outcome and assume that you have to comply with the law and that you have to comply with the Constitution. I therefore believe that the debate is based on a single question: does the People's Party want to return to the 1978 agreement or not? What has this government done to suffer the biggest blockade, the biggest constitutional crisis of the governing body of the judiciary, in the last forty years of democracy? I know what he has done: he has won the elections. But we must accept the outcome of the ballot box, the parliamentary composition and comply with the law and the Constitution. Of course, that is what the Government is doing and I hope we can reach an agreement. [[Applauds]] On social spending and tax reform, Your Honor, we agree. Little is said, but we have effectively reduced the tax burden on self-employed people and also on small and medium-sized enterprises from 25% to 23% of the company type. I think it's important to remember. I would like to say to Mr Rufián that I agree that we want peace, we want a dialogue, the end and the cessation of hostilities, but let us never forget, Your Honor, what is the origin of the conflict. The origin of the conflict is that on 24 February of this year Putin decided to invade a third country and, therefore, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, what he has done has been to break the Charter of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we must never forget the origin of the conflict in order not to consolidate, among other things, what Putin did in the past for the error of not reacting on the part of the international community and, in particular, of Europe. Let us remember, Your Honor, that this is the third stage of a journey that Putin has been on since the last decade: first, with the annexation of South Ossetia; second, with the annexation of Crimea, and now with the attempt of annexation of 15% of the territory of Ukraine. Moreover, with an unfounded excuse, because since when was Ukraine a problem for Russia's security? Since when was Ukraine going to invade Russia? It's just that I was never going to invade it, Your Honor. We can discuss, Your Honor, whether or not Ukraine is entering NATO, we can discuss the process of Ukraine's accession to the European Union, but, of course, we cannot justify Putin's invasion of Ukraine in those debates, which are legitimate in a nation, regardless of what decision, of course, must be taken by consensus in the Atlantic Alliance. Your Honor, I think we can agree on that. I am not saying that you do not say that, but, as you reproach what happened on the Crimean bridge, I would also like you to reject in an even more categorical way the discovery of graves that we are seeing in the liberated areas of Ukraine. I think it's important to do that. I am not saying that you do not say it, but do it from this rostrum, say that it seems to you a horror that the graves discovered in the liberated areas of Ukraine cannot go unpunished. Say it, Mr. Rufián. I am not blaming you, but I believe that we must also be balanced in the magnitude and dimension of what some are doing and what others are doing, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] About the famous Midcat - I like to call it a hydrogen corridor, because, in fact, it has to be compatible with hydrogen -, as I have heard on many other occasions, it is not only France with Spain; I do not know why Mrs Gamarra, in her eagerness to criticize everything, criticizes me even things that Mr Rajoy has not fulfilled when he was President of the Government. At the Madrid Summit in 2015 - I was not President of the Government of Spain - and at the Summit in July 2018, in Lisbon, where the President of the French Republic, Prime Minister Costa, the then Commissioner of Energy at the College of Commissioners of the European Union - Cañete - and the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, also appointed by the former Conservative Government of the People's Party, was reached the agreement that in 2020 we would reach interconnections of 10% and in 2030 of 15%, and, Your Honor, it has not been achieved by a single country. I really believe that we are doing a weak thing for the general interests of the country by pointing out and holding accountable a government - in this case, the current government of Spain - which, like the previous governments, has always encountered a wall that is precisely that of the interconnections with France. In any case, Your Honor, I share with you that it has to be compatible with gas and hydrogen. You talk about the evolution of prices, but you have forgotten to say that public transport by neighbourhoods - rolling stock in Catalonia - is already free. Then I'll talk a little bit about rollies, but, according to the CEO, who is like the CIS but in Catalonia, the rating of the Catalan citizenship of rollies is seven out of ten. I am not saying that there should be no improvement, Your Honor, but that is what the Catalans and Catalans say about the service provided by Nearies in their community. It also forgets, Your Honor, that it is a good development that we have seen in this month of September, when for the first time in months we have seen how inflation has fallen by 1.5 points; and more importantly, how the underlying inflation has fallen, which is the one that discountes the evolution of energy prices. It must also be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, how, with this immense effort we are making, we are holding inflation in 3.5 percentage points; moreover, I am grateful - and very grateful - for the support of your parliamentary group. I would like it to be more, Your Honor - what do you want me to say to you! - but, of course, we are doing things that, at least, are benefiting and cushioning the dramatic situation of the middle and working class and the most vulnerable groups. You talk about welfare state policies and you refer to mental health. I said earlier in my first speech that we are increasing the budget linked to investments that strengthen primary care, which has always been the cinder of autonomous governments, and also the mental health strategy announced and approved by the Council of Ministers and Minister Darias. With regard to executions, without a doubt, Your Honor, we can always improve. But, by putting it in context - and you also know it because you have advice and govern yourself in Catalonia - Infrastructure advice is also suffering the consequences of bottlenecks and rising prices on much of the material that serves for these investments in infrastructure. I will give you some data that try to counter this feeling that you are trying to impose that the Government of Spain is not committed to fulfilling its commitments: in the year 2022 the Government has implemented a direct investment of about 314 million euros, i.e. 38% more than in the first half of 2021. You can tell me that it is insufficient and I can agree with you, but do not say that we do not show willingness and commitment to improve the execution of that investment, an investment that amounts to 14.4 million euros per month more than what we invested in the first half of 2021. In the first half of 2022, the budget execution for social housing, for the rehabilitation of housing for neighborhoods and buildings and for the decarbonisation and improvement of transport in Catalonia has increased by 66% compared to the year 2021 - that is, 490 million euros in 2022 compared to 295 million euros in 2021 - and 64% compared to what the Rajoy government executed in 2018, which was 298 million euros in the first half. And, if we compare with the previous government, Your Honor, the rate of execution in 2022 is 11.7 million euros per month more than in 2017. What I want to say to you is that the Government of Spain is committed to speeding up implementation in Catalonia and in all the territories of our country - because Mr Baldoví has also referred to this - and that it is not attributable to this Government laxity or lack of commitment in the fulfilment of its commitments. You know, because you govern, how difficult the situation is right now for many of the materials that are used for that investment. In any case, in 2023 the budget proposal we bring to this House makes its community receive a record figure of EUR 25 236 million from the autonomous financing system, that is, 23.7% more than the previous year; and I think it is justified because, indeed, we need to strengthen all those welfare policies that are in the hands of the autonomous government of the Generalitat. In the budgets we are allocating a total investment of 2552 million euros and what corresponds to ADIF,to the Ports of the State and to the Consortium of the Free Zone of Barcelona represents 85,7% - I want to be rigorous - of the allocation corresponding to these agencies and to these public enterprises. Tax cuts and social policies. I believe that we are defending the working middle class and I believe that I have responded - probably insufficiently for you - to what the pace of implementation of the investments we have committed in Catalonia is. Mrs Nogueras has also reflected on the implementation of the investments committed. Your Honor, by giving an explicit reflection on the Rodalies Plan, I believe that this is a realistic and feasible compromise that includes actions of no less than EUR 6300 million. By 31 December 2021, in the first two years of the plan, EUR 550 million of that EUR 63 billion had been implemented. The investment in rollers since 1 July 2018 reaches 800 million euros. I mean, Your Honor, we are also showing commitment to the implementation of our budgets. In this month of September I also have to remind you that ADIF and ADIF High Speed Boards have approved the award of three of the contracts related to the impulse to the Rodalies Plan and the progress in the works of the stations of La Sagrera and the Mediterranean Corridor. In these budgets, which you consider to be inadequate, ADIF's investments amount to EUR 1 billion with an increase of EUR 230 million and EUR 817 million nearby. In short, Your Honor, as I said to Mr Rufiány before, Catalonia has received 42.4% more resources in these five years of government than in the last five years of the People's Party. I thank Mr Bel for his tone and willingness to approve these measures and I reiterate the levels of implementation that the Spanish Government wants to continue to raise. I share with Mr Errejón many of the things he has said. I believe, indeed, that a social consensus is being forged in Europe in response first to the pandemic and now to the economic and social consequences of the war that is in line with the social majority of this country, regardless of whether they are progressive or even conservative. I reiterate once again that the solidarity tax on big fortunes is supported by more than 70% of the population and with the tax on big energy and financial entities the same happens. I believe that we must also highlight something that I said in my first speech and which I now use to remind you of: the letter from the President of the European Commission last week, before the informal Council and also the Council that the Energy Ministers have had, takes on board many of the positions that the Spanish Government has been defending - and also her lordship and her group - with regard to the reform of the electricity market, with the intervention of imported gas - I am referring to prices - with the intervention of electricity-generating gas prices - what is called the Iberian solution - and without a doubt also with the centralized purchase of gas or something that has gone a little bit unnoticed but which is important, as is the European Commission's willingness to change the regulation to improve liquidity in the collateral of energy companies. I think this is important too. You speak of that fund to which you referred earlier. In this regard, I would like to remind you that we, as a government, opposed the debate on green taxonomy in the European Parliament, also in the European Council, where many of these requirements were modified to establish what was green investment and what was not, for example, in gas interconnections or also in nuclear power plants. The Government of Spain in the Council was opposed and the political forces representing the Government of Spain in the European Parliament voted against. But what I wanted to go to is that we have continued to issue green debt, green bonds, and we have not changed the prerequisites for this alteration of green taxonomy, but we have submitted ourselves to the previous ones in compromise with a goal that you share and that I have stated on many occasions: that there should be consistency in the answers that we give to this energy crisis with the answers we are left to a bigger crisis, which is that of the climate emergency. In that regard, ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know that the Spanish Government is fully committed and that we are not going to use this crisis, as others do, to say that we are going to ensure the energy transition and everything around it. Mr. Baldoví, talk about weaknesses and talk about the story. It is that progressive forces and progressive Spain have in front of them a power that is no less, that is the power of money; and that power, the power of money, has its terminals. You and I are having breakfast reading the Madrid press, also listening to the Episcopal Conference speaking through the radio and here too we have the political terminals of those interests that represent money, but I think we will confuse what the debate is and that is what they want. Has it been stated, Your Honor, that since we talked about the large energy and financial entities, only one person on behalf of all of them, who is Mr Garamendi, has spoken? Why is that? Because they know that their voters also want a solidarity tax on the big fortunes, and that their voters also want pensions to be revalued under the CPI, and that their voters also want a tax on the big energy entities and the big financial entities, and that their voters are also in favour of the euthanasia law, and that many voters of the People's Party are also in favour of real and effective equality between men and women, because that is so. But what do they do? It must be recognized that they are skillful in that: they avoid such debates. And what are you talking about? From whom we pass the laws, but not from the content of them, because they know that the social majority of this country inexcusably supports these measures that we are putting on the table. [[Applauds]] That's right. I believe that we, the progressive forces, must be aware of this. With regard to autonomous financing, I understand that this is one of the outstanding tasks of this Government and that it is a commitment of the progressive coalition government's investment agreement. You also know, Your Honor, that autonomous financing has to be renewed with the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group, which represents a large number of autonomous governments with competing interests, because their realities are very different. It is not the same as the Government of Galicia and the Government of Andalusia, as are not the same interests of the autonomous financing that the Government of Cantabria has - because I am seeing Mr Mazón - and those that may have the Valencian Community. I believe that this is an essential and irrefutable debate, especially for the progressive forces we believe in financing our welfare state, but it will also not deny, Your Honor, the effort that this Government is making to transfer economic resources to the autonomous communities. Mr Rego, I would like to say that there is no doubt that we want peace, but, of course, this illegal annexation of territories is making it difficult for these talks to begin. Note that there have been two important agreements since the beginning of the war: one for the exchange of prisoners, which is no less, and the other for the export of cereals from Ukraine by the Black Sea, in Ankara, with Ukraine and Russia. It is an agreement that expires in November and has to be, so that it did not exacerbate this food crisis that humanity is suffering further, and that it will suffer with greater emphasis next year if we do not remedy it, extended, and that is what I defended at the European Council this past week in Prague. He pointed out here that we have raised the inter-professional minimum wage, non-contributory pensions and minimum living income by 15%. I do not remember very well what I have pointed out, but it has much to do with the inadequacy of some of the measures we have put in place to protect the middle and working class and the most vulnerable. I believe, Your Honor, that, regardless of whether much remains to be done, we are on a path that we can share. Mrs Arrimadas has raised her speech about falsehoods. Ms. Arrimadas, who was always very emphatic in her presentation, said that this Government widened territorial inequality. This is a government, Your Honor, which in five years has transferred 178 billion euros, more than in the previous five years from the governments of the People's Party. Are there problems of territorial inequality? Certainly, Your Honor, but this is the commitment to figures, data and numbers of the Government of Spain. Ms. Arrimadas also said that the Government contributed to wage inequality, but this was the Government that had passed the inter-professional minimum wage from just over EUR 700 to EUR 1000. Our commitment is to finish this parliamentary term corresponding to the objective of the European Social Charter, which is that the inter-professional minimum wage is 60% of the average wage, and this is no less for the young people to whom you claim to defend so much, because many of these young people charge the inter-professional minimum wage. You have approved the labour reform and I do not understand very well why you do not also wear the medal of saying that 80% of contracts today in our country are stable and indefinite contracts, unlike what happened with the counter-reform approved by the People's Party, or that we help that equal pay when in all gender policies we defend equal pay for men and women with the same responsibilities. Each autonomous community, ladies and gentlemen, has its autonomy in the field of security forces and bodies and the Government of Spain has raised its salary to the Civil Guard and the National Police by more than 22 per cent. Therefore, reproaching the Government of Spain that we have not complied with the equivalence that the Civil Guard and the National Police demanded, it seems to me that it does not obey the truth. You say that we have raised social security contributions and you forget to matize, because in your eloquence it comes to say that we raise social security contributions to self-employed people or workers. No, it's the workers who get a higher salary, get a little better information. And, Your Honor, unlike what other governments did with negative inflations, when they ruled the People's Party there for the years 2012 and 2013, which raised contributions by more than 5 points, this government does what it does to defend workers. Your Honor, you are facing generations, because, as I said before, the dignity of pensions is fundamentally based on labour dignity, wage dignity and compliance with the Toledo Pact. Did you vote in favour of the renewal of the Toledo Pact in November 2020? I think so, don't I? Why have they since refused to revalue pensions under the CPI? [[Mrs. Arrimadas García makes affirmative gestures]] Do you, too, like the People's Party, want to break through the back door the Toledo Pact and the second recommendation of that pact that tells us that we have to revalue pensions according to the CPI? We, Your Honor, are doing what we are doing is to comply with those recommendations and also, for the first time in thirteen years - it is said soon - to put almost EUR 3 billion in the pension pool, on a path that we want to start precisely thinking about the sustainability of the public pension system for future generations. Your Honor, don't cheat on me and don't tell me that pension leave increases more than scholarship leave because it's not recognizing the truth. The truth is that there has been no government in the history of democracy in this country that has put in the scholarship policies, that is, in the equal opportunities of our young people, almost 25 billion euros, reinforcing even during this part of the year those scholarships to their recipients, who are almost a million students, in more than 100 euros. And I remind you of the figure I gave earlier in my first speech, Your Honor. Today the relationship between contributors and pensioners is 2.37; we have not had this relationship for many years. Of course, I share with you that the problem of young people is emancipation, education and work, and that is why you - and I thank you for that - supported the labour reform, which is improving and reducing the temporaryity of young people's contracts. You forget to recall, Your Honor, that it has been this Government, with a new education law, with a new vocational training law or with more budget earmarked for education at all stages and at all ages that has lowered the drop-out rate. At least you will be able to recognize with data that this Government, with its policies and its commitment to public education and scholarships, is reducing school drop-out, which was one of the main blows left to us by the previous Administration. And I can't admit, Your Honor, that we're buying wills. Your Honor, that is classism and that has nothing to do with liberalism and I hope that in its re-foundation one of the things that will be said is that public policies mean buying wills. It is not the purchase of wills, Your Honor, rights and freedoms must be consolidated and expanded, and that is not the purchase of wills, but the recognition of rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] I have a few facts here, and I would like to recall what this government is doing for the middle class and tax worker. It seems to me that you have been among the few groups that have tabled - you have not even tabled VOX - an amendment to the whole tax on large energy companies. I don't think he's introduced her to VOX. [[Laughter]] They've got to make him look at it. But look at what we have done and what we are doing with the tax reform, apart from all these taxes that I have told you that we are going to create, that we are adding to the tax on financial transactions - we were the first countries to apply it - and that we are also adding to the tax on large digital corporations - we were also the first countries to apply it - we have protected the middle and working class, and I will give you some data. Mrs Arrimadas, a worker who earns less than EUR 15 000, which is unfortunately many in our country who have this salary, will not be obliged to make the income declaration thanks to the tax proposal that the Government has approved; a worker who earns up to EUR 21,000 will see the income tax of natural persons reduced, a measure that will benefit 50% of the workers in our country; the company tax for SMEs falls from 25% to 23% and taxes are also reduced to almost a million self-employed workers. With these measures, for example, to make you an idea, a married worker with two descendants, a salary of 19,000 euros and a joint declaration will stop paying the IRPF and will save 331 euros; a pensioner over sixty-five years, with a very common pension in our country of 16,500 euros, will benefit from a saving of 47 %, that is, 689 euros. A single parent worker - we will set this example because it is the most common - with two descendants and a salary of 18 500 euros will be saved 516 euros. The deflation you are proposing, together with the VOX Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group, which is linear, means savings of between 25 and 30 euros from the IRPF. I repeat, between 25 and 30 euros. It will agree with me that a savings of 331 euros for a married worker with two descendants, that a savings of 689 euros for a pensioner of sixty-five years and that a savings of 516 euros for a single parent worker with two descendants and a salary of 18,500 euros is much more savings than the 25 and 30 euros proposed by the right to alleviate the burden of the middle and working class of this country. [[Applauds]] So, Your Honor, there's the data. If you do not see them, it is the reality with which we find ourselves in this legislature. Mr Esteban, perhaps it seems to you that these are not important measures to strengthen the electrical social bonus, to temporarily create a new category of electric consumers, to strengthen the thermal social bonus in the years 2022 and 2023 or to create this protection to the 1,700,000 households with Community boilers which justify the Government's and mine's appearance in this forum. Your Honor, I think it is fully justified because we live in complex times. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Oblanca said earlier, this was a very important informal Council summit, because we have given way to a new format, which is the European Political Community, and because the image that has been transferred from unity and isolation to Putin in Europe is very relevant. In any case, in that informal Council we are talking about very important things such as peace, security, energy and climate, with a letter from the President of the Commission which is very relevant because she supports many of the proposals that her parliamentary group has also put forward in this House. On the General Budgets of the State, we will have an opportunity to speak. Mrs Aizpurua said that we must redouble our diplomatic efforts. Believe me, we have never abandoned them, but you will agree with me that if there are sabotages in North Stream 1 and North Stream 2, if there are illegal connections with illegal referendums, which are traps to cover up Putin's military failure on the territory, of a significant part not less, of 15% Ukrainian soil, by Putin, I do not believe that Putin is sending us signs that he wants to dialogue and that he wants peace in an imminent way, unless, of course, we accept his demands. And of course also, Your Honor - I do not say this because you have not actually commented on it - the scenes of crimes against humanity that are being seen in many of the pits in the liberated areas of Ukraine cannot go unpunished, and they demonstrate the gravity of the situation, who is the aggressor and who is the aggressor, regardless of whether the situation demands the utmost scruple in how we face it from Europe and from the international community as a whole. But believe me, Your Honor, that, on every occasion I have the opportunity, I have always defended dialogue, peace, that both sides can sit as soon as possible and that we can reach an agreement that will bring an end to hostilities, among other things because, the right wing always forgets it in its analyses, the consequences of rising prices and the energy crisis have a very obvious origin in this war. Weakening the European Union? Mrs Aizpurua, as I said before to Mr Rufián, the annexation of South Ossetia and, therefore, of a third country such as Georgia, Crimea and now Donbas is a symptom of imperialism, and therefore we have to be aware that this weakens the European project and that it has a cost we are paying. On the diplomatic, geostrategic and also defence capabilities of the European Union, I cannot agree more. We have been the government that has approved and renewed the European Union's strategic compass precisely to boost this whole European industry and defence capabilities in Europe. You talk about structural measures and short-term measures. Your Honor, I think I have referred earlier to structural measures with some of the numbers I have given to the previous speakers. Simply, to continue delving into this bet that we are doing that, in my opinion, it is revolutionary, on the energy transition, I will tell you that in wind power, in capacity to install, from 2015 to 2018 were installed around 500 megawatts and from 2018 to 2022 6106 megawatts have been installed; that is, almost twelve times more. In the photovoltaic power installation, from 2015 to 2018 86 megawatts were installed and from 2018 to 2022 12 219 megawatts have been installed - or we are already installing - i.e. one hundred and forty-two times more than the previous Administration. If we go to the self-consumption data that, obviously, we raise its development and its implementation with the repeal of the sun tax, and also after having facilitated the administrative procedures and having approved million dollar subsidies under the Recovery Plan, we are often forgotten that in the savings plan that we approved in August we increase the aid for self-consumption. According to data from the Spanish Union Photovoltaica, 1203 megawatts of new photovoltaic power were installed in self-consumption facilities in Spain in 2021. This figure - just so we can get an idea - means an increase of 101.84% over 2020. In other words, the figure is doubling. And in electricity generation during 2021, 259 905 gigawatts were installed, with 121 371 gigawatts coming from renewable energy, or 46.7% of the total. We are the fifth country in wind energy in the world, the second in the European Union and according to IRENA, the International Renewable Energy Agency, of course Spain is committed to renewable energy and is already the eighth country in the world with the highest renewable capacity in 2021. Your Honor, if something is proving this, we are not only putting in place short-term measures to alleviate the effects of this energy crisis, but we are also being consistent with a huge transformation of our energy model, which will ultimately increase our country's competitiveness. Firstly, because we are going to stop importing a lot of that fossil fuel and, secondly, because renewable energy is much cheaper than other types of energy and, therefore, we are going to give ourselves the opportunity - if we do things right - to reindustrialize our country in green. On the short-term measures, Your Honor, it must be remembered that this government in September 2021 was the first, with the criticism of the right and its media, which raised the reduction of extraordinary benefits for energy. Right now - I have been reminded by Vice-President Teresa Ribera - is an example of best practice that many international agencies are asking governments to extend and make their own. We are, in contrast, making a huge effort which you obviously have to share because, moreover, you have supported it, by reducing VAT, by direct aid and by making consumers more vulnerable and less vulnerable to be cushioned by the effects of this rise in prices. With regard to inequality, I share with you that the welfare state must be strengthened, that the burdens of the crisis must be shared fairly and, of course, that fiscal justice must be implemented. That is what this Government is doing and, of course, what I am not going to share with you is precisely your last reflection. Because, frankly, beyond the insults and disqualifications that every president of the left takes on October 12 by friends, plural Spain, diverse Spain and democratic Spain of rights and freedoms - which is constitutional Spain of 1978 - it is the one that represents me, which represents, in this case, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and I would say that a very large majority of Spaniards and Spaniards. [[rumors]] Most Spaniards do not feel reflected or represented in the disqualifications, improvisations and insults that, logically, some always throw at progressive governments on 12 October in our country. [[Applauds]] Look, I appreciate Mrs. Oramas, and the things she tells me! Yeah, really, and she knows it, too, because it's been many years. [[Rumors.- Mrs. Oramas González-Moro: And I too]] He talks to me about the economic consequences in Germany and, of course, about solidarity. I believe, Your Honor, that we in the pandemic, with our successes and our mistakes, have demonstrated our commitment to the Canary Islands. With regard to Germany, Your Honor, we are calling for speeding up interconnections in order to be in solidarity with that country and many others who are much more exposed to the import of Russian gas. Your Honor, the archipelagos of the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands will - in fact they are already doing so - count on extraordinary economic resources from the central government to realize that shared goal of turning these archipelagos into 100 per cent renewable. By the way, don't forget that we also fund and subsidize potable plants for the desalination of water in the Canary Islands. Nor do you forget to say that it is true that you are not close, but that there is an 80% bonus for air transport and maritime transport. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] You'll tell me this is REF. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes affirmative gestures]] Yes, but the REF doesn't set the percentage, Your Honor. When you ruled others, which you supported, it was not 80%; it was this government that put it 80%. [[applause.- Mrs Oramas González-Moro points out all the seats]] On the island of La Palma, Your Honor, I am convinced that there will be specific cases in which we can agree that it is not coming... I used to remember the Vice President of Labour that there is more employment right now on the island of La Palma than before. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] Yes, Your Honor, that before the volcano erupted. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] And that is because we are allocating a historic amount to the employment plan of the island of La Palma, which is even greater than that which we are allocating to the rest of the Canary Islands. Therefore, I believe that the fact that there is more employment today on the island of La Palma than before the eruption of the volcano is an indisputable and irrefutable fact, Mrs Oramas. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] Mr Sayas always talks to me about ETA and then accuses me that they are not concrete measures. [[Protests.-Mr Sayas López: I didn't say anything]] No, ladies and gentlemen, you are not going to give me, as secretary general of the Socialist Party, memory and in tribute to the victims who also suffered from the Socialist Party, no lessons of struggle or commitment against terrorism. None! It's good to use the dead! [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]] You use ETA to your liking. That's it! Fortunately, that violence is past. You say, Mr Sayas, that there are no concrete or real measures. I am very sorry for the rest of the parliamentary groups, but I will repeat the concrete and real measures that I have proposed at this sitting. [[Rumors]] I am very sorry because it is late and I have said it on many occasions, but, as Mr Sayas has not heard, I will repeat it to you. Mr Sayas, at the next Council of Ministers - listen to me - next Tuesday, first of all, we are going to strengthen the electric social bonus by benefiting 1 300 000 households in our country. Secondly, we will temporarily create a new category of electric consumers entitled to a 40% discount, which will benefit one and a half million additional households. Thirdly, we are going to strengthen the thermal social bonus in the years 2022 and 2023 and, lastly, we are going to mobilise some EUR 3 billion, in addition to this, for the extension of the protection of households with Community gas boilers, which are many in our country, 1 700 000, with the regulated tariffs of last resort 1, 2 and 3. In short, Your Honor, we are talking about concrete and real measures that will protect 40% of households in our country. Therefore, Your Honor, truly, you tell me whether you are going to approve it or not, but do not say that I am not proposing real or concrete measures because that is missing the truth. You are talking about increasing public debt, but the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has already answered you earlier in his speech. What did the People's Party do when it ruled, by the way, with the support of its party? What he did was to depress the economy, cut the welfare state, raise taxes to the working middle class, pass tax amnesty to the big fraudsters who, fortunately, this government and the parliamentary majority in this House - I think I recall that with their vote against - have declared illegal, and also raise the public deficit and the public debt. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that the data are clear and indisputable; we are lowering public debt, reducing the public deficit and strengthening public policies linked to the welfare state. That has a lot to do with dignity, because the dignity of work, the recognition of the right of workers in the labour market or the protection of incomes that we are doing, during the pandemic and now, to many small and medium-sized enterprises and to the productive fabric of our country, to the industries, what it does is that our economy recovers more strongly when we emerge from these crises. I give you only one fact that you have heard me say on many other occasions: in two years we have recovered the previous levels of employment. The previous crisis took more than ten years to recover the pre-financial crisis levels. Mr Mazón, of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, I agree, I told you earlier when you left, that all this competition for fiscal dumping only benefits the most powerful territory, not by economic policies, but by the capital effect, that is to say, the Community of Madrid. The whole debate on fiscal harmonisation is a debate that mostly supports even conservative voters. I believe, Your Honor, that some of this is also being done with this tax of solidarity of the great fortunes and that the governments of territories that suffer from a tearing inequality are doing little favor - I am thinking, for example, in Andalusia, of the waiting lists that they have in Health or also of the enormous challenge in many other public policies linked to the welfare state - of lowering taxes to 0.2% of the population. If it proves anything that is where its priorities are and its priorities are not, Your Honor, in attracting new investment or strengthening the welfare state, but in cutting that welfare state and consolidating that inequality. The great beneficiary of this whole debate of fiscal dumping is the Community of Madrid, and it is because of the capital effect. I therefore believe that other governments are doing well to say: No, I want to compete in the quality of my public health system, in the quality of my public education, in safety and in energy transition. Your Honor, that is where the future lies and those autonomous communities would do well not to follow the steps of what is truly the beneficiary of this whole debate, which is the territory that has the capital of Spain. Mr Martínez Oblanca forgets to say that we have abolished charges and tolls, that we have reduced electricity taxation, that we have increased compensation for CO2 emissions, that we have created guarantees for the signing of long-term contracts and that we have put EUR 663 million in the energy efficiency fund for industry. I would like to thank Mr Guitarte, logically, for the recognition of this important announcement that we have made for three provinces of our country, as mandated by the European Commission. I can't agree with what you've said about the Space Agency. We are not talking about demands, but about assessments that are being asked of us by the aerospace industry itself. In any case, Your Honor, I believe that the Government of Spain has demonstrated throughout these years our firm will to deconcentrate new institutions - we have done so, for example, with Social Security in Soria, without going further, and with other institutions - and what is meridianly clear, Your Honor, according to the position of the People's Parliamentary Group, is that, if it were to govern the PP, we would not be talking about deconcentrating institutions throughout our country's territory. [[Applauds]] Finally, to the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to applaud and acknowledge the whole group for the work it is doing, and above all for the pride that has been shown from this rostrum, the spokesman, for progressive policies and for social-democratic policies. Before, at the beginning of my first speech, I referred to the fact that a social consensus is being articulated in Europe other than the response to the financial crisis, and there the Spanish Government has not been a mere spectator, it has been one of its main players, and in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue for the coming months and years. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u68	Thank you, President. Mr President, during this sitting which is taking place in this House, statements have been made by the Moroccan Government, statements that you have brought before the UN, and I believe that, since you are here in Parliament, this is the place where you must defend Spain's national sovereignty and territorial integrity today. [[Applauds]] Morocco says that they have no territorial borders with Spain and says Morocco that Melilla is an occupied prison. I believe that you here today, as President of the Government, must not leave without saying that this is utterly false and without defending our territorial integrity. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, we have listened to you carefully and my conclusion is that you are already tired of lying so much, because it is not only that you lie without data, that you lie against data and against reality; and at this point, you Spaniards have already very quiet. Or do you think the electoral results in Andalusian autonomous are random? Or do you think the data from all the demoscopic companies are random? No, it's because you already know him and, therefore, his lie has become something characteristic of his way of governing. What I recommend is that you go out on the street, do not become a negator of the social and economic reality that our country is experiencing. I understand perfectly well that you can't step on it and that it has to be very uncomfortable so much booing. It is possible that those around him are making him believe that everything is organized, but no, it is the Spanish society that has been fed up. Talk to them, listen to them and ask them if they are better than four years ago, and if they believe, moreover, that you can improve this, because they will answer you no. [[applause]] Ask a young man, of those you talk about, who previously had a temporary contract, but now, with his labor reform, he has gone on to call himself fixed discontinuous, to see if he considers that his reality has changed him. No, it remains the same; only their statistics have changed, but the reality of the Spanish youth remains that. And you wanted to give us some data, as always, lying. The People's Party, when it came to the government, not in 2008, but at the end of 2011, found a youth unemployment rate of 53.9%. And you know where he left her? At 34.6%. [[Applauds]] It wasn't enough, of course it's not enough. Let's see if you get with your policies the same drop in youth unemployment as the policies of the People's Party managed to do at that time. I doubt it will succeed because its policies are not the right ones and because changing the name of the contracts does not change the terms of those contracts. Mr. Sanchez, you've told us about what you call the racca racca de la collectación. I would respect those more than EUR 27 billion that come from the middle-class and working-class pockets of this country fundamentally, because 10 billion are the direct effect of VAT and if there is more VAT collection it is unique and exclusively because of the rise in prices, because people cannot consume more. And that's the reality and that's what we're talking about and that's what you're refusing to return right now to the middle and working class, now, not just for some and from January 1, 2023, which is October, November or December, all that remains and people can't even pay anymore. And yes, we continue to insist on deflating, but not only does the People's Party, they do so to their barons where they rule and even some socialists have deflated it in its entirety because they live and tax in the Basque Country. See that this measure should be better than you think. You know perfectly well it's a good measure, but you prefer to have the millions of you to distribute them as you see fit, because there's nothing more powerful than the BOE, and that's what you have at your fingertips, just you, and that's where you show your power. But that is where it also shows that you are not willing to reverse in the middle and working classes the effort and sacrifice you are making. To have an income of more than 21,000 euros in this country is not not to be a middle class and a working class; a family with 25 000 euros of income per year and two children will not receive any help from which you speak in tax matters next year; and to inform you well if it will be 24, 25, 26 or 27, because they are paying them all Spanish. One last question. They ask us what we want with their measures. The important thing is first to know them, to see them and to read them. You speak of the tax they call solidarity. I would appreciate it if the parliamentary groups could get to know a draft bill, or is it that there isn't, and you're improvising? Because to speak and position yourself the first thing we should have is the text of what you want to do and yet we have absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]] And, if they are good measures, of course you will have our support, but I also invite you to have those measures that we have transferred to you, which you have on your table, analyse them, because they are good; to extend VAT by 5% to electricity and gas beyond 31 December, because 1 January 2023 will continue to be winter in Spain; and to have you read some of those measures that come to suggest that all that is non-electrical cost, which is being paid on the invoices, which is the tariff deficit that you left as your inheritance, EUR 27 billion that are still on the invoices, can be eliminated right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u69	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u70	And don't lie so much, Mr. Sanchez, because the interconnections were funded. If the interconnection with France is stopped, the person responsible is called Mrs Ribera, and she is not from the People's Party. Honestly, it wasn't Rajoy, it was his vice president. [[Applauds]] And their relations with Algeria have not bothered them by the People's Party, they have not been either Feijóo or Aznar, it has been you, first person, and you know it; so fix it. And, to finish, Mr. Sánchez, you like to talk a lot about the 2008 crisis. Who ruled Spain in 2008? The Socialist Party. Who took action in 2010 against the welfare state? The Socialist Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u71	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u72	And I'm done. Don't use fear with pensioners. It is the fundamental principle of the Toledo Pact. Don't scare the pensioners. Pensioners know perfectly well that the People's Party will always be at their side and will guarantee not only the present update, but future revaluations. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u74	Mr Sánchez, you very much like to ridicule the adversaries and go up to this rostrum talking about the apocalypses with which the opposition warns you. But, of course, you come up to this rostrum also warning of an apocalypse, the climate, and you ask us many questions about whether we are going to support you, but you, who are the President of the Government, should answer our questions, and I ask you for the ninth time when you are going to repeal climate legislation that ruins the Spanish and prevents us from exploring our resources. [[Applauds]] Because, of course, Spain emits 0.7 % of the world's CO2 to the atmosphere, but every time Spain reduces emissions, it increases China, which emits 30 % - well, China or Russia or the United States or India -. China issues 30% and each year increases 5%. That is, the effect of your measurements on the planet is exactly zero. He asks why we don't support him. Because you have brought us here, to the gates of ruin, dependence and even war. By the way, he is also full of his mouth talking about Europe, but as far as the European Union is concerned that the way in which the General Council of the Judiciary is elected changes, he becomes a Europhobic in a minute. [[Applauds]] We do not support him because we have a duty and a mandate from our voters to keep infinite distance with his Government; infinite distance with those who have supported the energy suicide of Spain; infinite distance with those who bring social division and confrontation with Spain with the law of historical memory, with gender laws and even, again, with the desecration of tombs; infinite distance with those who ruin the Spanish - there are a million more poor with you - with those who ruin the middle and popular classes, with those who raise taxes to the autonomous and those who are in debt to the next generations; and infinite distance with those who rule by the hand of the enemies of Spain and the Constitution. [[Applauds]] You say that the right asks you on October 12th. Look, no, the Spaniards have pitied him because, precisely in yesterday's act, very important and very solemn things are done, such as the tribute to the fallen, to the fallen who have been killed by the enemies of Spain - those things, which you said, those things - and people remember a 12th of October of things like that. [[Applauds]] I mean, we keep with you the same distance you keep with the Spaniards. I insist, here you come without a tie after forcing us all to change the temperature of this room, but all the ushers have to come with their uniform and their tie up to the walnut. You in the Falcon and with twenty official cars, but the Spaniards can't fill the deposit. You will be applauded by Greta, but you are pitied by the Spaniards, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] It is quite unbearable - forgive my energy, I have been infected with testosterone by Mr Patxi López, who I see that you have delegated it to him -, it is impossible to hear you talk about social policy and public health when you use public money for propaganda. This year 36 million more in the budgets, 68 % increase. They give money to promote illegal immigration and the so-called effect, 881 million in the budgets they bring us, 65% more than in their first budgets. Give money to Mrs Montero's ideological associations and, yes, give money to millionaires, to the foundation of Bill Gates, for very important things. But it happens that in that fund of Mr Gates participate many millionaires who decide what they do with their money and you become millionaire with the money of the Spanish, but then your government tells us that it does not fund an effective medicine against breast cancer because it is too expensive, but to take a picture and for socialists to be placed in international institutions there is always money. [[applause]] [[shows a press clipping]] [[Applauds]] You're a millionaire, you behave like such with the money. And the fact that you present yourselves here as the inventors of social security and public education and public health... [[Laughter]] Excuse me for laughing. I've seen Mr. Patxi López very engulfed with social democracy. He said, "It's us!" In 1908 there was a National Institute of Prediction in Spain, in 1918 there was a Retirement Worker and, after the war, in 39, the Old Age Subsidy was created. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado: But what does she say! He doesn't know what he's saying!]] I don't know if you would applaud Maura or Franco. Obviously, things have changed, many things have improved, but saying that there was nothing here until you arrived is a gigantic lie that we are going to answer in this rostrum. [[Let me give you a round of applause.-Protests.-Various Members: Good!]] With regard to the support we have decided this weekend by the Italian prime ministers - in a few days - of Hungary, Poland and the former President of the United States, I have to tell you that Mr Trump did not start any war during his term, that he signed several peace treaties, that he warned Europe that it was necessary to increase defence spending and that it was necessary to end the dependence on Russian gas, and they laughed at him in Berlin and Brussels, and that has led us to war. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u75	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u76	Ask Mr. Biden, when you chase him down the halls, to see if he's going to maintain those policies or if he's going to change them. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I conclude, Mr Sánchez, by reiterating the question, because you are talking about surveys and what Europeans think. Look, fewer polls and more real consultations, because the polls said one thing about the Brexit, the referendum on the agreement with the FARC in Colombia, the attempt to boost the Constitution in Chile, and the voters said the opposite when they were able to vote. Less polls and ask the Spaniards if they want the energy suicide that you and this Chamber have voted for or if they want the Spaniards to have energy sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[A Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u78	Listening to him, Mr.Abascal, I have to give reason to Victor Lapuente, who wrote a wonderful article a couple of days ago that said we overvalued them, because his model is not Trump, it's the Fary or Jesus Gil or some of these. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] He's right that some things have changed, but others haven't. You are still late for the plenary session, as on 23 February. Some comments I put on the table, Mr President, so that, if you want, if you want, you can think of them in your office. He asks me to condemn the graves found in the liberated areas of Ukraine. I'm enormously surprised. I will try to be very clear: absolutely, absolutely. As a Democrat, all I'm saying is that I also find it very wrong to use car bombs to try to assassinate fellow Putin's regime, which also seems to me to be wrong to bomb a bridge in Crimea full of civilians, and that does not make us less supportive of Ukraine. It simply makes us more supportive of truth and democracy. I hope I have been clear enough, because weak favors are given to Zelenski and company when they ignore some of the things that his Government has also done and has done wrong. [[Applauds]] Second comment. That trains go badly in Catalonia, Mr President, that the rolling stock - nearby - go badly in Catalonia, sorry to tell you, it is not a feeling, it is a certainty. I was small and they were bad enough. There are things that are constantly repeated in history: the shoulder straps, fascism, the chapters of The Coming and the PSOE's non-compliances with Catalonia. These are things that are constantly repeated. [[Applauds]] Last year there were 323 official incidents reported, 323 incidents in rolling stock - nearby - in Catalonia. It's almost one a day. That's undeniable. Much has been written about the increase in independence in recent years in Catalonia, a lot has been written about why, a lot has been written about us, and I will tell you a secret. There have been two major independence machines in Catalonia: the first is Rajoy - everyone knows it - the People's Party, and the second is Renfe, and Adif, because people are tired and link it to the only thing that you manage uniquely in Catalonia as the raffles are. Finally, I simply remind you that we are not on equal terms when it comes to negotiating, we are not on equal terms. When I repeat to you that there are nine partially pardoned people who cannot run for election, that there are seven people still in exile persecuted by the Supreme Court, that there are approximately one thousand and five hundred activist protesters persecuted simply by referendum or by being independent, I do not tell you to please us or to try to make you do something for us to do; no, no, it is simply by pure democracy, by democratic values. And not only do we ask, is requested by the arbitrary detention group of the United Nations, is requested by the United Nations Human Rights Committee and is requested by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and - spoiler - will be more and more, because it is unsustainable. I repeat, do not do it for us and for us, do it for democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, you have come to say that we do not care about pensioners or civil servants, that we do not value them enough. Look, we're not going to accept any kind of lesson from you. But do you know why? Because you are the same person who froze the pensions and cut the salaries of the civil servants in the year 2000; you. I understand that you have a very changing morale and opinion. You are able to say in electoral campaign that you have to bring Puigdemont arrested and then pardon; you are able to say that with Podemos you would not sleep and then put them into government; you are able to plug all your friends into the public administration, to say that the judges had to be elected by the judges and now be the greatest defender of the system; you are able to even stab your partymates, those who had most defended you, at the time you needed it, but you will understand that the bulk of Spanish society cannot have a moral and opinion as changing as you. Was it okay that you voted yes to cut civil servants' salaries in 2010 and freeze pensions, and now it is okay for you to raise pensions by 9% in one year? Look, that'll be for your palm trees, for those you put on a freighter, for those who have their media to defend themselves, but you can't ask us to look good on what you did in 2010 and look good on what you're doing now. Is there any doubt in this country that if Mr Sánchez would need to remain in Moncloa to lower pensions by 50%, would he? Any doubt Mr. Sanchez would be able to do that? [[Applauds]] I have no doubt because you are able to do anything. Denouncing the sustainability problems of the pension system is not a question of ideology, Mr Sánchez. You said: Liberals... This is not ideology, it's responsibility. And I will give you an example that you have very close: Portugal, a socialist government, a country with less deficit, with less debt than Spain, with less youth unemployment and more birth, that is, a priori, better circumstances for the pension system. Do you know how much you have raised pensions this year in Portugal? On average, 4%, because, of course, you have not thought of a linear climb, as you have done. Do you know what the socialists said when they asked them why they no longer raise pensions? They said: We no longer raise pensions so as not to threaten the sustainability of the social security system. I suppose the Socialists in Portugal are also sluggish, insolidary and with a lack of empathy. [[Applauds]] The PP and PSOE have always done the same, the same. And you know why they do the same thing? Mrs Gamarra has come out to say: Yes, yes, we too, and two more hard eggs - as it is said colloquially -; of course we support the revaluation of pensions, and we will do more when we govern. Sure. Why do they both do it? Because they have the same electoral reality, because they're thinking about votes, because they're thinking about 9 million people who are the most mobilized to go and vote. Point. That is why they are not going to reform anything these gentlemen, neither birth, nor the public administration, nor taxes, nor will they stop nationalism, nor will they improve systems, because they have the same electoral reality. They need to like the PNV - which Mr Feijóo is already doing - that no one questions the pension system and that's it. And the one who comes after him who pulls. The Toledo Pact. Yes, Mr Sánchez, we are, by the way, presenting two particular votes to the Toledo Pact. But yes, it's true, you're right, you're talking, in general, about an update by the CPI and there's no mechanism designed for an extraordinary moment like this. So, very badly done. Yes, and I will only make a formal request to you, Mr Sánchez: you call on the Toledo Pact to talk about sustainability mechanisms, to guarantee pensions before you mortgage the future of several generations. [[Applauds]] Private sector, Mr. Sanchez. You can't talk about taxes. I do not know if the speech you have made here about taxes is rehearsing it for your federal committee when you have Mr Puig in front of you, because Mr Puig will also be an insolidary side that wants to blow up the social security system. Look, the measures you have taken reluctantly for families who enter less than 21,000 euros are clearly insufficient. There is a kind of family that is forgotten or treated directly as criminals, who are the couple who perhaps have the two salaries of 30,000, who is very well, but who have to pay the mortgage, the extracurricular ones, the person who helps them at home or who have an older family member in their care, who have to pay the car, who have to pay the university for the children and always stay out of their aid, because they always put the income level ahead. You're forgetting a working class that supports the system. And another day we will talk about the trap of poverty, yes, yes, of many families watching TV and listening to the government talking about aid and they know that they will never, ever, ever be touched. The data of the young people are frightening and the young people do not want you to raise 50 euros the interprofessional minimum wage, because they do not want to charge the interprofessional minimum wage with two careers, with two languages and with a master's degree. They do not want to charge the interprofessional minimum wage, they want to aspire to more, they want to aspire to a good wage, to be able to emancipate before, to be able to have children or to set up a business or a business; that is what Spanish young people expect.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u81	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u82	Finally, Mr Sánchez, I will tell you that a government has no right to mortgage your country. A Government has the right to be wrong, but it has no right to ruin its country and to mortgage, for its next election campaign, the next generations. I say to you, if you want to talk about reforms to increase birth rate, to improve taxes, to make you look a little bit more like the Portuguese government, we are willing to talk, but to ruin Spain while you are thinking of votes, of course the Spanish liberals will have to face you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u84	Mr Sánchez, we agree with you that Putin and his invasion must be stopped, we agree with that; what we differ in is how or in what way it must prevail and in which all efforts must be applied. I'll give you just one example. Just a few minutes ago, Mr Borrell, the highest representative of European diplomacy, has literally said that a nuclear attack on Ukraine would provoke such a powerful military response that the Russian army would be annihilated. Is Europe's answer to one Putin's madness with another? Do you think this is the way to end the war? Really? I ask you again: What is the plan if you do not look for a diplomatic and dialogueal way out? He said he agreed that Europe must regain its autonomy. We are happy, because the truth is that we are getting expensive, dear, to be subjects of world powers like the United States and war alliances like NATO, which neither look for our interests nor will they defend them. That is why I ask you again to look for allies in Europe to get out of this spiral and open the way for diplomacy no matter what. We do not say it is easy or have the magic formula, but what we do know is that in these nearly eight months of war the actions undertaken, the path taken to end the war is not bearing fruit. We believe it is time to explore all the avenues for a rapid and lasting exit to this war, also the diplomatic one, and that is what we are asking of you. I'd like to make one last point about October 12th. You have said - it has not been me, you have said it - that it is assumed that every progressive president receives insults, abhorrences and attacks at the parade on October 12. Mr. Sanchez, you yourself have given me the reason. He assumes that he is abused and insulted because those who feel represented by the regime of 78, by the monarchy, by the army, by the police or by the judicial domes seek to stop any progress in rights and freedoms. He assumes it because he knows that all these factual powers respond only to the right and the right and its interests. That is exactly what I meant, that the regime of 78 - call it, if you prefer, as you have done: those friends - is precisely the lock to make real progress in rights and freedoms. I share with you that the majority of citizens do not feel represented by it, which is exactly what I have said, because we are sure that the social majority of this State and of the peoples living in it want to open a new era that leaves that mortgage behind and want to move towards a future with more freedoms and rights for all. That's all, thank you. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u86	Thank you, President. I'll tell you in a lower tone so Mr. Abascal doesn't get infected. I wish I had been, because I was going to give him the reason, but you can tell him. I totally agree: infinite distance. We're in the antepods at all. [[Applauds]] You defend dictatorships and dictators; we defend democracy and freedom. Point. I have nothing more to add. Mrs. Gamarra, I've been listening to you attentively throughout the day and you seem to me to be inside a dystopic series in which everything has turned around and we are in the world backwards. You have begun with a sofa and with all your stands, intoxicated, representatives of the only party condemned as a criminal plot organized by the delinquent. And I don't say it, the sentence says it. Wouldn't they be a little quiet? [[Applauds]] Then he came with the typical cheap demagogy: it is that the president has raised his salary. Yeah. You know what the president's paying for, don't you? Can you tell us what Mr. Feijoo is paid to compare, because they have hidden it from everyone. I mean, live transparency and live the difference. [[Applauds]] He then said that one thing was to take care of the institutions and another was to assault them, as the Government did. Can you tell me what it's like to be four years out of line with the Constitution to continue controlling the judiciary? Can you tell me what it is to try that what the citizens have not given you in the ballot box will be given to you by the close ones in the sentences? because that will not be to assault the institutions, but it looks a lot like occupying them anti-democraticly. [[Applauds]] He later said that this Government had raised taxes, and the President had already replied. Look, you say, you've received 27 billion more at the cost of inflation. Already; but more than 35,000 have been earmarked to help the citizens of this country. By the way, the debt this year in the budgets seems to be going to fall by 3%. You tell me, when you went up all the taxes, cut all the benefits and increased the debt, to what do you allocate the resources?, because you did not appear anywhere. I told you before, they cut and cut and everything was given to the banks. [[Applauds]] And then the pensions. Beyond the chatter, in the only interview in which Feijóo has not gone in the peripheral phrases he said textually that he was against raising pensions with the CPI. Point. [[Applauds]] That's right, as it was hard to swallow, then they wrapped this up by confronting the pensioners with the young people and saying it wasn't sustainable. But, of course, the solution for the right is always the same: to cut pensions instead of looking at how to make the system sustainable; the same as in the labour market, where the only thing they do is to reduce layoffs and lower wages. This is his recipe always, to attack the most humble to sustain the wealth of a few. And one thing to finish - and this worries me very much - that I will also say in a low tone. You have said again here - and they say it in every control session - that this government cannot go out on the street. What is he trying to say, that a democratic government, because you don't like it, can't go free on the street? [[Rumors]] No, no, I'll finish the reflection.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u87	Quiet, please. Mr. Hispan, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u88	What are you doing? Inciting some citizens to multiply what you do here? What are they trying to feed, those ultra groups that first scream and then attack? [[Rumors]] Nothing fancy, nothing's free. You can't go up here, into this rostrum, and say what you want, because everything has consequences. [[Applauds]] It is very dangerous and very worrying this patrimonial drift from the right, which wants to remain with the symbols, with the homeland, with the Constitution, with democracy. [[The applause continues]] That is why every time you show your lack of sense of state, going through Europe to speak ill of Spain and this government; every time you show your lack of democratic culture, saying that this government is little less than an okupa; every time you show your patriotism as a reddish bracelet, thinking that if everything goes wrong, you will be well, we will be in front, in front, because unlike you we work for Spain to go well, because this will be good for all of us. [[applause of the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up, and of the members of the Government]] [[Applauds]] And it is that the socialists - I finish, because I do not have time -, if we have to endure, we endure; if we have to resist, we resist. But I want to make it clear to you: we were neither born to endure nor to resist, we were born to change things, we were born to transform unjust realities and, as Ramón Rubial taught us, to make revolution in the State Official Gazette, which is what this government is doing for the pride of all socialists. [[continued applause during the remainder of the speech by the honourable Member]] [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u90	If I may, Madam President, I will speak from the seat, because I feel perfectly well-recognized in the words of the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but as there have been some pompous statements: Mr Sánchez, you have to... I'll tell you, Mrs. Gamarra, Ceuta and Melilla are Spain. Point one. [[Applauds]] Two. On the Toledo Pact, we simply ask to be clear. The statements of the current President of the People's Party are what they are, and they say that he does not believe in a revaluation of pensions according to the CPI. Therefore, the renewal of the Toledo Pact, which took place in November 2020, with you as spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, is blowing up, because you are changing your position, ladies and gentlemen. It would be good if you were clear and told all citizens, pensioners and those who will be in the future that the People's Party does not believe in the upgrading of pensions. You say emphatically: The PP will always be on the side of pensioners. It's clear. We saw it when you were ruling, with a 0.25 percent horizon in your retirements. Then we took some interesting history lesson. There is no Mr. Abascal, who is never in favor of staying until the end of the session. We found out that Social Security brought her to the far right. And democracy too, isn't it? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I would like to say something to Mrs Gamarra, who also laughed when the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group was in the rostrum and said what she said; and I recognize myself in those words. To applaud the insults, the disqualifications of a minority to the President of the Government, whoever he is, is totally irresponsible. [[Applauds]] He says a lot about his lack of democratic behavior. I could expect it, Your Honor... yes, I know you don't care, I know you don't care, but those kinds of statements could expect them from the far right, never from a right that calls itself democratic. [[Rumors]] Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government present.-Applause from the President of the Government addressed to his parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-13-CD221013.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was three and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
