ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the Chamber the amendment of the agenda to include in the session of Thursday, before the appearance of the third vice-president of the Government and minister for the ecological transition and the demographic challenge, requests for acknowledgment by the plenary of the Chamber of the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on sustainable fisheries and fisheries research, the draft law on institutionalization of the evaluation of public policies in the General Administration of the State and the draft law regulating customer care services. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u2	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u3	Thank you, President. Mrs Calviño, the last two data published by the INE are a 0.2% pyrrhic growth in the first quarter, which you call robust growth, and an inflation of 10.2%, which stifles families and businesses, while you collect more and more. I mean, Mrs Calviño, we are facing a crisis of first order. To his repertoire of excuses he added last week a new one, the economic powers and its media terminals, and they did so only twenty-four hours after the orchestrated assault from Moncloa to a listed company like Indra, by the hand of the maximum shareholder of a large media group. We've got to have a quilt, Mrs. Calviño! And what's he gonna tell us today? That it's all Putin's fault and the opposition's fault or that the economy's going to be fine from tomorrow? [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u4	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u5	Thank you, President. I am going to answer the question you had registered by indicating that inflation forecasts are being prepared by the Banco de España, an institution with which I am always absolutely aligned; that, of course, inflation is an international problem that has accelerated exponentially as a result of the war, in fact, and that unfortunately we cannot stop; and that the news of the last few weeks is not positive. I have said this here in the Chamber, where I have already warned that the cut in Russia's oil and gas exports - by 70% gas and by 40% oil - is leading to an acceleration in the rise in energy prices - a 50% increase in the price of oil in June - and all that is leading us, of course, to take measures, as we have done from the outset, to contain inflation and to ensure a fair share of the war. Mr Olano, this Government responds to difficult situations quickly, effectively and fairly. [[Rumors]] The response of the People's Party is already well known by Spanish citizens because they suffered a decade ago. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u6	Mr. De Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u7	Mrs Calviño, less bad that your measures work: an inflation of 10.2%. You always repeat the same mantras, but the Spaniards we pay the gasoline at 2.15 euros - 60% more than a year ago -, we pay the electricity to almost triple that last year and their Iberian exception makes us have to pay 4 million daily to our French neighbors. We paid 780 euros more for the mortgage and suffered the biggest price increase in the shopping basket in thirty-seven years. I'll tell you what you've done. Since he does not like the actual data published by the INE, he has forced the output of those who produce these data to look, without a doubt, for an INE a la carte, in the style of the CIS of Tezanos. The second decision has been to copy some of the measures from the economic plan of the People's Party, and it is well after months of insulting us. It can be seen that now, Mrs Calviño, lowering taxes does not empty public coffers or put health and education at risk. I recommend that you continue to copy our economic proposals. Reduce unproductive public spending, adjust the IRPF to below €40,000 - those middle classes that you always forget - and redefin European funds to avoid the fiasco we are seeing. Mrs Calviño, you have no project for families, businesses or self-employed, your only project is to stay in Moncloa and, for this, do not hesitate to seek party control of state institutions. For these they have a project, and they have been implementing it since 2018. They did so with the Prosecutor's Office, with the CNI and, this past week, with the CIS, with the Constitutional Court and with the INE. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u8	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u9	Thank you very much. It is already bad luck, Mr Olano, for you to criticise the Iberian exception in the week when Spain has the price of electricity less than half as the countries in our environment. [[Applauds]] It is already bad luck to lower taxes in the same week that the Galician PP has approved an increase in water taxes in Galicia, which left Mr Feijóo's leader behind and which, of course, penalizes Galician families. [[Applauds]] It is already bad luck for you to criticise the European funds in the week when the European Commission approved the completion of the milestones, confirms that Spain is leading the implementation of the Recovery Plan and, in addition, recognises positively the impact of labour reform, that reform which you have opposed to until the end. It is already bad luck for us to talk about the institutions when we have not renewed the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court for so long, issues which, Mr Olano, the Spaniards increasingly understand are fundamental to the proper functioning of democracy. I think they hide behind all this kind of widespread criticism and unwarranted personal attacks, you know why? Because they don't want to explain what they're going to do. Are you going to vote in favour of the royal decree law and therefore support the reduction of VAT? Are they going to support the royal decree law and support the strengthening of minimum living income and non-contributory pensions? Are you going to support the royal decree law to freeze the price of butane candy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW MISSING THE SPANISH ECONOMY DOES THE GOVERNMENT'S ERRORS IN EXTERNAL POLICY? [[File number 180/000995]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u11	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, I am listening to you and I see that you are still on the same path. Week after week you continue in your heroic effort to convince us that in Spain everything is going well, that you are doing everything perfectly and that if there is any problem then it is either Franco's fault or the virus, or Putin's. Meanwhile, reality goes another way. The reality is that the National Institute of Statistics presents us week after week, with economic data that you really leave very badly, such as this week's data published by the INE showing that Spain has slowed its growth - we are only 0.2%, two points less than in the previous quarter - and, of course, inflation in two digits, above 10%. That's why his partners tell him that the watermelons and melons are going up, but they're going up absolutely all the prices that the Spaniards pay. The truth is that we have been for many months - not a matter of weeks, but months - with bad economic data, data that you don't like, so, as you don't like, instead of working to improve them with common sense and convrudence, as you don't know, what they do is to stop the data subject, taking charge of the president of the INE. The purpose is nothing but to replace you with someone who likes you. As I'm afraid there won't be many professionals willing to play their professional prestige, they will end up putting another Tezanos any of their party, someone who doesn't care to harm the good name of another institution that you stand before. It is the same thing that they have done with the Prosecutor's Office, with the CNI or this very week with Indra, or what they have done, with the necessary collaboration of the PP, with the Court of Auditors or with the Constitutional Court, which you still go and say they have not renewed it, but if you have renewed it with them less than a few months ago, Minister. You destroy everything without disguise, you are already leaving, but in your flight forward you want to take everything forward. And, in case there is little, the serious management deficit in the interior that we all know. In addition, they place Spain in an even more serious situation with its foreign policy errors. Since Sánchez's turn - so personal - in the Sahara Spain, which depended on 42% of Algerian gas, he is having to buy gas from the Americans, costing 40% more. How much do you estimate to be damaging to the Spanish economy for your government's errors in foreign affairs? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u13	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u14	Thank you very much, President. The reality is that a NATO summit is being held in Madrid this week, that international leaders are meeting in our country and having bilateral meetings with the President of the Government; that everyone considers our country to be a responsible partner and a reliable partner, in fact, President Biden spoke of Spain yesterday as an indispensable ally; and that the foreign policy of this Government is, precisely, positioning Spain in a position of respect and, as I say many times, of affection on the part of the rest of the countries, with a responsible and also European vision, hardly weighing it, because the only thing I know about the foreign policy that you defend is to meet with Marine Le Pen and the European ultra-right. [[Applauds]] But, I tell you, it is already bad luck, as I told your colleague in the People's Party, that in the week of the NATO summit, you begin to question the foreign policy of the Government of Spain and the role of the President of the Government, which, frankly, fills me with pride. [[Applauds]] He only lacks this week of pride to criticise the government's equality and LGBTI policy, and you are already in full swing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u15	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u16	It is a classic of this government that we ask what we ask you to go to your triangle; you have already said: far right. If I didn't say far right or Franco, I had to say Putin, and, but, I would have to say virus. You said far right, you've gone to your magic triangle. But do you know what's going on, Madam Vice President? That the magic triangle no longer hangs, because it's not the ultra-right, it's not the virus and it's not Putin, sonustedes. You are the biggest burden, the biggest burden that the Spaniards have behind them; the families, the merchants, the SMEs, the companies, the workers and the self-employed have a great burden, which you are. You guys every time... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u18	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, it is clear that a terrible war is taking place at the gates of Europe, which is accelerating the rise in energy prices at international level, which is leading to a rise in prices in general in the countries of our environment. Thanks to the measures we have taken, we are aligning inflation in Spain with the European average. We're lowering inflation by 3.5 points this year. Even in this very complex context, the truth is that all agencies expect Spain to grow strongly. I am not going to discuss economic analysis with you, but you will understand that an annual growth of more than 6% is a strong growth, even in a very complex first quarter of the year; a growth that is accelerating in the second quarter of the year. These are the data and this is the reality. As is the reality that this is a Government that respects and supports the institutions. And I would ask you, please, not to make jokes or criticisms of the civil servants and workers of both the CIS and the National Statistical Institute, which are institutions that I have always respected and defended, including this Chamber. [[Applauds]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I understand that it bothers you that the NATO summit is coming out well; that President Sánchez is respected; that we be a pro-European country and that we have the respect and affection of all our partners... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u20	..., but his speech has less and less roots, no longer just here, but with Spanish society. I have nothing more to add. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u21	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u22	Mrs Calviño, what measures will the government take to contain inflation - 10.2 %, according to data this morning - in this framework of forecasts of gross domestic product growth?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u23	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u24	Thank you very much, President. I've been warning you, ever since the export of both gas and oil has been reduced... Don't laugh, Mr. Bal, that we're talking about very serious issues. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I have already been warning here in Parliament that the news we had about the cut in exports of Russian gas and oil was not positive, that it was not good news, that we had to prepare ourselves to work on a higher inflation scenario for longer. That is why we adopted a second package of measures on Saturday, which I hope your group will validate here in Congress, which have a twofold objective: to contain the rise in prices and to ensure a fair distribution of the cost of war. Efficacy, speed, justice, those are the principles that guide us; and, frankly, they should have the unanimous support of this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u25	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u26	Look, Mrs. Calviño, we laughed because we knew what was going to answer: that we would support him in the actual decree of the measures. You see, it's just that outside the government no one believes their actions anymore. Standard and Poor's has lowered its economic growth 6 tenths, and in the last two months, 2 points; the Banco de España, 4 tenths. You keep insisting that consumption is going to grow by 4%. The European Commission says 0.7%. And so I can go on, but I have already lost all hope that you will make political decisions that are based on real data. As neither the statistics nor the numbers fit, what it does is to stop the one who makes the statistics and the numbers and invents a new method for him to fit in with his political propaganda. You say that the gross domestic product is like before the pandemic, and the INE denies it. You say that consumption has fallen four times less than the INE says. You try to hammer the reality that only your brain lives, but does not live in the pocket of the Spaniards. What do you want, to also cease those of Standard and Poor's or the governor of the Banco de España? Can you imagine yourself as responsible for the European Commission's budgets putting pressure on Eurostat's European officials because the figures you like in that position do not come out? Because that's what your government does, stop officials who don't tell them what they want to hear; and you're going to tell me. Look, I'm going to read you the full list of grievances; apart from the National Institute of Statistics, apart from the case of Indra, from the pressures to the National Securities Market Commission, the director of the Higher Council of Scientific Research, the director of the National Intelligence Centre, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, Spanish Broadcasting, the Constitutional Court, the Spanish Data Protection Agency, the attacks on the Governor of the Bank of Spain, the demerit in the prestige of the Prosecutor's Office or the Sociological Research Centre. Well, Sanchez says, this is due to the media terminals of political pressure. You are turning Spain into a political terminal of the Socialist Party. You are part of the battalion of assault on State institutions; and the erosion of State institutions is the erosion of your own credibility. [[Rumors]] And you, gentlemen of the PP, are the judges going to split up? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u28	Thank you, President. So that there is no doubt, I have not pressured or ceased the leader of any independent institution. [[Rumors]] And now we go to the question before us, Mr. Bal. But, let's see, are you going to support or not the royal decree law? Do you or do you not agree to reduce VAT to 5%, to maintain the fall in excise duties on electricity, to freeze the price of butane candy, to increase minimum income by 15%, to increase non-contributory pensions by 15%, to continue to support the agricultural sector, the farmer and the fishing industry, to continue to freeze and to keep rents up to 2%? These are all the measures that we have been putting in place, which, together with this second package, are mobilizing a very large volume of resources, more than 1% of GDP, and are already taking effect, moderated inflation by 3.5 percentage points this year. We are taking effective measures, as we did with the response to the pandemic. Because this is a responsible government, which respects the institutions, which effectively manages, takes decisive decisions and adopts measures that achieve the objective, which in this case is to contain the rise in prices, which is international in character and is accelerating as a result of war, and to achieve a fair sharing of the impact of war, supporting the middle and working classes of this country, with very special attention to the most affected sectors and the most vulnerable groups. And as I said before to Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, these are principles that I believe we should support unanimously in this Chamber, because they are good for Spain and good for Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEP PAGES I MASSÓ, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN COMPLETE WITH EUROPEAN STANDARDS IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE OF LAW? [[File number180/000984]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u29	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Josep Pagès i Massó, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u30	Minister, every month, every week we have news that question the compliance of the Spanish State with the principles of the rule of law. Without going any further, in recent weeks we have seen how the Spanish courts failed to comply with the Strasbourg decision in relation to the Basque prisoner, Xabier Atristain. We have also heard the report by the Union's Advocate General on the Junqueras case, which notes the Supreme Court's disloyalty with European law for preventing it from obtaining its parliamentary record. Yesterday we heard the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights condemning the Spanish State for filtering images of thirty-three Catalan judges and police reports on their ideology. In addition, the recent Cilevics report, on the non-compliance with the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe a year ago, a report whose publication the PACE has massively voted for its declassification and publication, which concludes that neither Turkey nor Spain have complied with the majority of recommendations to tackle the persecution of politicians for their ideology and, moreover, expressly cites the scandal of massive espionage to Catalan politicians, the 'catalangate', and calls for the creation of a parliamentary commission to investigate it. I therefore ask you: does the Kingdom of Spain comply with European standards on the rule of law?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u31	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Spain meets the standards of the rule of law. Spain is also a country which, as we have heard during the Vice-President's speech, respects the institutions. But, as the European Commission says, nothing less than on the first sheet of that report on the rule of law, we still have a great deal to go on, which is the lack of renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, precisely - the report says - because of the lack of agreement of the General Courts. It will not be for this government this lack of agreement nor will it be for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's lack of will in this House, the majority group, which has been since 2018, four years since the Council's renewal process began, demanding this renewal. As you know, this is due to an absolutely unjustified blockade by the majority opposition group, the People's Group, which does not allow the General Council of the Judiciary to respond to this plural and diverse Parliament, which is what we have in Spain; a General Council of the Judiciary which does not respond to this reality and which the People's Party wants to create in its image and likeness. Look at how dangerous it is when this happens that we have seen it in the judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States, which has not responded to the reality of plurality and diversity and the needs of those who are more than half the population in the world, to the needs of women with that judgment. That, precisely to you as a member of this Parliament and also as a Democrat, is what you should be concerned about. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u33	Mr. Pagès.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u34	Madam Minister, what we must worry about is what we are going to decide, you don't have to tell us, we already have the capacity to decide. I have not asked you about the General Council of the Judiciary, I have not asked you about the recent ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court and you have not answered what I asked you. Get to the rule of law standards. That is why I ask you again: when will the Government of the Kingdom of Spain change the crimes of sedition and rebellion, as urged by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? The assembly considers that the reform cannot be delayed and that it would be unacceptable for pardons to be annulled, more if this comes from a change in the composition of a room of the Supreme. What rule of law is this? When are the extradition proceedings for Catalan politicians going to end? The Council of Europe recalls that maintaining extradition orders is inconsistent with the granting of pardons. When will all proceedings against second-rate charges involved in the October 1, 2017 referendum be terminated?, when will they stop sanctioning for symbolic acts of solidarity with detainees...?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pagès, despite what you say in your speech, this government is strengthening the rule of law day by day, and it is doing so through structural reforms, also within the public justice service, strengthening the social and territorial cohesion of this country, I am sure that you too care very much. You are talking to me about recommendations, you are also talking to me about the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and, surprisingly, you are talking to me about the Cilevics report. It seems a lie that you do not know that the Legislative Assembly of the Council of Europe a few weeks ago opposed the Cilevics report. [[Mr Pagès i Massó makes negative gestures]] Yes, Your Honor. As Deputy Sergio Gutiérrez, who is here, said, there are more than 11,000 politicians in Catalonia, 11,000 public offices in Catalonia, many of them are independenceists, and only 7 have been convicted and, by the way, have also been pardoned by this government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIO GARCÉS SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT DOES THE LOW EXECUTION OF THE RESCUE FUND GRANTED BY SEPI BE DEVELOPED? [[File number 180/000988]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u38	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Spanish socialism is a mathematical combination of decadence and incompetence. [[Rumors]] To the point of overcoming the validity of the rescue fund, you have only executed one third of the originally foreseen credit. They have let EUR 6744 million run. Centenary socialist thinking has bound him fatally to ineptitude, but it was predictable because it was risky to put a fund of solvency in the hands of an insolvent Government. In fact, you have wrongly set the conditions for granting the aid, you have wrongly granted some aid. It all started with Minister Ábalos walking Missis Delcy in Barajas as a preamble to what was going to be the help of Plus Ultra. [[Rumors]] From there, a company of 300 workers received the aid and, for example, a company such as Abengoa, with 11,300 workers, has not received the aid. That aggravation would be incomprehensible if it weren't for being executed by you. For the sake of evil, President Sánchez comes and now says that the government is uncomfortable with economic powers because they boycott it. Only a loser presents himself as a victim of a boycott that doesn't exist. General Sanchez in his labyrinth in a week like this. Can you explain to us, Minister, the low execution of the rescue fund? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u40	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Following your example, Mr. Garcés, the People's Party is the clearest example we have in this country of futility and old age, because you are the same as ever, even if you are changing leaders, the same. [[rumors.-Applause.]] Those who never hold their shoulders in a complicated situation, those who do not care to discredit business groups so as to attempt that wear, which they never achieve, against the government of Pedro Sánchez. Definitively, the futility by flag, Mr. Garcés, that's what they've been practicing since President Sánchez acceded to the Moncloa. The citizens will take this into account. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u43	Regarding your question, 30 transactions - if you are interested, because it seems that you are asking and then you are not interested in the reason for the question - have been approved for an amount of 3255 million euros, 6 out of 10 euros that have been requested by companies. I just wanted to put you in the contradiction you practice, Mr. Garcés. You always criticize aid to businesses, demonise it as a way of saying that the government does not manage well or directly go to court when that happens. However, when companies do not meet the requirements that are stated here or by the Council of Ministers, they speak of the government's inability to manage. Not one thing or the other, Mr. Garcés. The aid went to each and every one of the companies which applied for it and which met the 13 criteria laid down by the agreement of the Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u44	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u45	Minister, Kant is a philosopher who said that there is a difference between reality and the perception of reality. Spanish socialism has a terrible problem with the perception of reality. You, far from being able to have control of SEPI funds - you yourself have acknowledged that two thirds of the initial funds have not been executed - have decided to take control of Indra by way of the cessation of four advisers and to prevent the re-election of a fifth independent adviser. It's the biggest unscrupulous attack on corporate freedom in recent years starring you, but it doesn't surprise me. You prefer to improve independent advisors rather than independent advisors. That's the reality. His lack of scruples has led him directly to take, as I say, that society putting, of course, a very serious reputational crisis on our entire market. But I will tell you one thing: you have moved from co-governance to the de-governance of the United We can, from regeneration to democratic degeneration. You haven't managed a rescue fund, but you won't find anyone who rescues you from the background of the story where you've been. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u46	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u47	Thank you very much, President. We ask the People's Party to at least respect the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor. If you want to ask for Indra, ask for Indra, ask it according to the rules, neither before nor after. [[Rumors]] But respect this corporate group. The only thing this government has done politically with this business group is to designate it as a strategic partner for the combat aircraft project together with Airbus, for the FCAS project; a very important project. Stop discrediting Spanish companies, because that's bad for this country and its workers. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr. Garcés, Abengoa is a company that could be rebutted if the Andalusian Junta, if Mr. Moreno Bonilla had given the 20 million of the ransom that you denied you together with this... [[Mr. GarcésSanagustín makes negative signs.-Applause]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARIA FIGAREDO ÁLVAREZ-SALA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY VOX GROUP, IN SUPPORT OF THE INES INES MARIA Cañizares Pacheco, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY VOX GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WILL YOU ELIMINATE IMPRODUCTIVE PUBLIC EXPENDITURE? [[File number 180/000996]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u48	Question by Mr José María Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u49	Minister, are you going to reduce the state's unproductive spending?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u50	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe, Mr Figaredo, that any government in this country always tries to make efficient use of public resources. But it seems to me important to say that behind your words there is no quest for efficiency. Behind words all there is is the search for the detachment of citizens to politics, in the broth of cultivation where you always want to progress, which is to impose alone and exclusively their ideological agenda that passes, as all citizens already know, by trying to deny the diversity in this week of the Pride, of the group that are claiming to be equal, of the dignity of women in an equal treatment with others, however much Mr Espinosa of the Monteros would laugh... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u52	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u53	... to whom the suffering of these groups should grace. All I have to say, Your Honor, is that 80% of the money in Spain's budget is spent on welfare, so on the provision of public services, on what at least basically allows us all to be equal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u54	Mr. Figaredo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u55	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. [[Laughter]] You have, Minister, the most expensive government in history; not a very expensive one, not a rather expensive one, the most expensive one in history. You have more ministers than ever in the history of Spain. You have higher burdens within each ministry than ever before in the history of Spain. So much so that they have even been allowed to create general directions for close friends of the President of the Government; they have been allowed to place at the head of the few public enterprises that still have their cabinet heads, their party partners; so much so that these public enterprises have a much more complicated financial viability. In this situation where you are squandering, spending and throwing away, in the end, the money of the Spanish people, because you have also increased the budget of each of the foundations, cooperation agencies, etc. in the Spanish State, you have increased the budget of all of them; in this situation of unbridled and uncontrolled spending, Spain is facing a very complex situation: an increase in interest rates with a debt that you have left us of 120 % of GDP, a reduction in family savings, a reduction in the general income of the Spanish people, who are facing a growth of only 0.2% compared to an inflation of 10 % that your Government is leaving us, of course, with record energy prices, fuels, gas, etc. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: are you going to reduce that unproductive expenditure of the state in order to actually devote the money to the essential issues of the Spaniards? Think about pensions, the deficit continues to increase; social security, the deficit continues to increase as well. So, I ask you, Minister, stop spending on nonsense, stop spending on marketing, stop paying salaries to your friends and, please, dedicate the money that the Spaniards pay with a lot of effort to the really important things and to those that effectively guarantee the equality of all the Spaniards, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u56	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. You will see, Mr Figaredo, I believe that the only political formation that cannot speak of just unproductive expenses, which you used to call chiringuitos, is yours, and you, who sit today - I don't know why, probably you have some aspiration - in the chair of Mr Dominguez Abascal, who has been... ; sorry, Mr Abascal, who has been known because he was the only member of a chiringuito who made himself express for him. [[laughs]] [[rumors and laughter]] [[Applauds]] In addition, let me tell you that you are probably left to have Mr. Abascal's communication, despite the courses you seem to be doing for how you express yourself here in this rostrum. I just want to tell you that one preaches by giving wheat, I think that phrase might sound like it. What are you doing in Castile and Lion? What have you done in Castile and Lion? [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] I will tell you: in Castile and Leonhan you have been spending 20% to 33% on advisers since you were vice-presidents. You have gone from a number of senior positions of 81 to 99 and you have a vice-president who has no kind of death. So make him look at it. [[Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon makes negative signs.-Applause]] - QUESTION OF JOSÉ ANTONIO BERMUDEZ DE CASTRO FERNANDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE ASALT VALUE TO THE VALLA DE MEILLA AND THEIR DRAMATICAL CONSEQUENCES? [[File number 180/000998]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u58	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last Friday there was a new episode of violent assault on the Melilla fence, with the unfortunate and tragic result that all your ladies and gentlemen know: hundreds of wounded, also agents of the Guardia Civilipanoles, to whom we want to transfer our support from here, and dozens of dead. The images we have all been able to see are shocking, speak for themselves and should shake the conscience of any person of good. However, the President of the Government stated that the assault was well resolved, an assertion as unfortunate as it was lacking in humanity. If that's what anyone from the People's Party says, I don't even want to imagine what they'd be telling us. That's why I ask you: how do you value the assault on Melilla's fence and its dramatic consequences? [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u60	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. Do not make a partial and interested interpretation of what the President of the Government said. [[Rumors]] This Government is working on a migration policy, really a complex phenomenon, for four years now, which you have not done. But I want my first words, of course, to be for the relatives of the migrants who died last Friday and also, as you said, for the fifty civilian guards who were wounded, also the more than one hundred and forty Moroccan gendarmes who were wounded in the facts and in the violent attack on the Spanish-Spanish border, on the border of Europe, because it is Europe's border with Morocco. Having said that, I would like to say that a democratic country, a rule of law, cannot in any way accept violent attacks on its border or attacks on State security forces and bodies. This is necessary in line with a serious migration policy, with work with the countries of origin and transit of migration, with a policy within the European Union in those terms too, to ensure legal, safe and orderly flows, and to fight, instead, against the mafias; the mafias who use vulnerability and vulnerable groups, who put their lives at risk. What we do is work to disarticulate mafias from countries of origin and transit and to continue to save lives and protect our borders. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u62	Mr. Bermúdez de Castro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u63	Look, Mr Marlaska, it is a great disappointment to see the President of the Government's lack of sensitivity to such a tragedy; therefore we demand that he be immediately withdrawn from his words. We also demand that the facts be clarified, there are many incognites to be resolved, and that is why we have also asked the President of the Government to appear before this House for an explanation. Of course, irregular immigration always goes hand in hand with the exploitation of people by the mafias, we know that, Minister, but the mafias also take advantage of the so-called effect you caused with the arrival of the Aquarius ship; they also take advantage of the erratic immigration policy and the open-door policy speeches that defend their parliamentary partners. That is why it is not surprising that we are the second country in the European Union with the largest irregular immigration, which has not stopped growing since you came to the government. Mr Marlaska, our agents in Ceuta and Melilla cannot continue to work with this precarious media, as the trade unions denounce. They are people who risk their own integrity in defense of our borders and deserve to be offered more material and personal means. In addition, that would be the best message we can deliver to the mafias: that we will strengthen our borders, that there will be no more havoc in migration policy and that we will improve the mechanisms of cooperation and early warning to prevent further avalanches. And one last thing. We must ensure the control and security of our borders, no doubt, but we cannot allow the tragedy to be repeated or normalised. Spain is a rule of law and therefore security at our borders must always be compatible with respect for human rights, and you as a minister should be the first to ensure that this principle is complied with. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u64	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. We practice a migration policy of scrupulous respect for human rights and this policy is also transferred, seen and observed directly in the role that our forces and security forces of the State play, protecting our borders with scrupulous respect for human rights and, in the same terms, fighting in cooperation with transit countries like Morocco against the mafias who traffic with human beings, with the most vulnerable groups, this is demonstrated. More means? With you we have lost 13,000 people, we have already recovered 11,000 in the four years we have been in government; that also in Melilla, also in Ceuta, something that will remind you. [[applause]] Less words and more facts, more willingness to work, more loyalty, because migration policy, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, is a challenge that has come to stay. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED BARANDIARAN BENITO GIFT, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ADOPTED, AS A CONSEQUENT OF THE APPROVAL ON THE 2nd FEBRUARY OF AN AMOTION OF THE VASCO GROUP, TO AVOID THE FALLANCE OF PERSONS IN THE BIDASOA RIO BORDER? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000986]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u66	Question by Mr Íñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. At the monitoring session on 1 December, on the occasion of the death of a person on the Bidasoa River, I asked him about the causes of that death and the situation and what concrete measures he was going to take to prevent such drownings. Later, on 2 February, this House adopted a motion urging the Government in particular to promote measures to guarantee the right to international protection of all migrant persons and to avoid mechanisms that entail discriminatory treatment on the grounds of race, political colour and others. In the previous question, you stated that we have the necessary and precise measures to protect the external borders of the European Union and to ensure free internal movement. However, another person drowned in the Bidasoa has died again and eighteen people or thirty-seven, we do not know, in the wall of Melilla. It is not precisely the implementation of these fundamental rights protection measures that has caused these deaths, but others. The question is what you intend to do, not to preserve borders, but to preserve the fundamental rights of these migrants, who will be irregular, but are in transit to Europe, to whom respect is owed, they are owed the guarantee of their fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u68	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran Benito. I fully agree with what you have said, and you know perfectly well that this Government is against and has opposed the internal controls that France has introduced with regard to its borders in those terms and for migration reasons in order to avoid secondary movements. I will tell you that as a result we are still with Civil Guard personnel, who control by sea and air to avoid the tragedies in the Bidasoa River that have occurred in the terms you say. Within the framework of the JHA Council of the European Union and in response to the request for reform of the Schengen Borders Code to allow for the establishment of internal controls for migration reasons, I must say that Spain is one of the few countries that has opposed it because it understands that it can disturb the nature and essence of what is the Schengen Borders Code. We are in favour of effective protection of the external borders of the European Union, but also of freedom of movement within the framework of the European Union. In that regard, the protection of lives in the terms you have indicated of irregular or regular migrants or non-migrants is one of our main concerns. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u70	Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u71	Thank you, Minister. It happens, however, that in both Bidasoa and Irun there is a common factor. The pattern is fear and inhuman or degrading treatment in the case of the Bidasoa border, and the absolute lack of respect for fundamental rights in the police intervention that has caused thirty-eight deaths, because it is police intervention that has caused thirty-eight deaths. That this happens on an external border of the European Union is unacceptable, that happens on an internal border is simply indefensible. Bidasoa and Le Havre are the blackest spots on Europe's internal borders. And the greatest tragedy ever on an external European border is that which has been lived in Melilla, the intervention of one or the other is what has caused the most deaths, and cannot be denied. The motion adopted by this House on 2 February called for something as simple and basic as humanizing migrants, to be treated as human beings, that even when they are persecuted, detained or deported, their fundamental rights are respected. What has happened on either border should not be repeated or much less justified, let alone by a President of the Government. Act, but avoid...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u72	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. Obviously, I hope you will withdraw what you have said, because the President of the Government has in no way justified any violation of fundamental rights, never. [[Applauds]] The President of the Government has expressed his solidarity with the migrants who have died. The President of the Government has always mentioned, like this Minister of the Interior as a member of his Government, that the phenomenon of migration is complex and that legal, safe and orderly migration is not incompatible with an effective fight against irregular migration, always respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is what this Government is doing, transferring to the European Union the need for external dimension and development cooperation to prevent such irregular migration. Also fighting against the mafias - I say it again -, saving lives, and always under the principles of the European Union of solidarity and shared responsibility among all of us. In this regard, Spain is leading this position: the external dimension and the principle of solidarity and shared responsibility while respecting fundamental rights. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES YOU CONSIDER THAT THE TRAGIC CONSEQUENCES AND THE DEATH OF 37 PERSONS ON THE BORDER OF THE BEST SONCONSEQUENCES OF A 'BENSE RESOLVED' POLICE ACTIVITY? [[File number 180/001000]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u74	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u75	Thank you very much, President. Egun on, minister. They have asked, but doing an exercise that Houdini has not escaped from the answer: what assessment does he make, from the police point of view, of what happened last Friday on the border with Morocco? The Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Guterres, said this morning that he was shocked by the images of excessive use of force by the security forces and forces; the President of the Government said that the situation was well resolved, what do you think, from a police point of view, of what happened on Friday? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u76	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. You already have the full trial. I refer to it exclusively and mainly - I repeat it again because it is necessary and precise - that we must regret the loss of human lives in the terms we all know. Our consundolences. Likewise, I repeat again, because you do not remember, we show empathy with the forces and security forces of the State, fifty of them wounded in what we have been in the past year, and more than two hundred wounded civilian guards of different significance in the face of attempted violent assaults; empathy also with the wounded Moroccan gendarmes, we look forward to their early recovery. I would like to refer to the issues raised that we can establish the complexity of the phenomenon of migration, the need to fight and the impossibility of admitting in a rule of law that our borders, which are Europe's borders, are violently attacked. It is a principle that must be avoided in every rule of law, fighting against the mafias who traffic with these human beings, with their vulnerability, and putting them at risk. And again I say that in the maritime sphere you know perfectly well how this country fulfils its duties as appropriate, respecting rights and saving lives, which is what it is about. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u78	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u79	Yes, President. Minister, you haven't answered again. How do you feel about last Friday's operation? You confine yourself to saying that a democratic state cannot tolerate an attack on its borders, but is it that a democratic state can cooperate with such an action as we live in Morocco the other day? You talk about mobs. Until now, we believed that the Melilla fence was precisely jumped by those who had no money to pay for networks or mafias. Give us details of what the mafia is about, that alleged mafia. What was the coordination that you have so valued with Morocco's security forces and corps? On the basis of which framework, of which agreement, were they introduced into Spanish territory and acted in Spanish territory? Clarify him, because he's not doing it. The People's Party has put exactly the same face on them as you put on them after the tragedy of Tarajal. If I tell him they're acting the same as they do, I don't think they're going to be offended. But with regard to transparency, following the Tarajal tragedy, Mr Fernández Díaz came to this House the week after the events; you did not. What are you waiting for? At that time, the Ministry of the Interior posted images of the entire border perimeter on its website; why haven't you? He realized what the anti-disturbing material had been used; you have not. I think they have a responsibility, which is to clarify what happened last Friday; but it is also that measures must be taken to ensure that such a tragedy does not happen again. And answer me: what do you think of last Friday's police work on the border with Morocco?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Iñarritu. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. You already find for proven facts that Moroccan gendarmes entered Spanish territory and that civilian guards could do the same in Moroccan territory. Falsehoods of this kind, unless there is evidence, I ask you not to mention them. [[Mr. Iñarritu García: There are videos!]] I would like to give you a substantial indication of how the State security forces and bodies scrupulously comply with the law. We make a daily assessment of all the activities we develop. We have no complex with controls, because controls make them our own and we also submit to external controls. There's no problem with that. I'll tell you again: strict compliance. Obviously, it was a violent attack. The people who tried to enter Spain assaulted a group of 2500 people. Do you think 2500 people are meeting suddenly or because there was already a previous agreement between 2500 people? And using, again, dangerous means against our agents. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANDRES LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RETRACT FROM THE PRESENTATION TO ELIMINATE BASIC TRANSPORT SERVICES IN RURAL AREAS, HAVE YOU ESTABLISHED IN THE DRAFTING OF THE NEW CONCESSIONAL MAP OF RURAL TRANSPORT SERVICES BY CARRETER? [[File number 180/000989]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u82	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Andrés Lorite Lorite, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u83	Minister, when are you going to stop cutting off the right to mobility of people living in the rural areas of Spain? His desire to isolate those living in these environments is, without a doubt, an unacceptable punishment. Minister, the government is making it more difficult to access mobility, making it less and more expensive. This government, which is unable to lower the price of fuels by 2 euros per litre, is making mobility an inaccessible luxury item for many and, in addition, intends to impose tolls on highways. In addition, it eliminates night trains, reduces rail frequencies, increases the price of trains and does not reduce airport charges. And now the ministry, unilaterally, designs a new concessional map of regular road passenger transport, focusing service on urban agglomerations and eliminating basic services in rural areas. Mrs Sánchez, it is paradoxical that a government that presumes to be social should reduce bus transport routes from 966 to 510, based on purely economic criteria and therefore leave people with fewer resources without public service. Mrs. Sánchez, a government that has a Ministry of Demographic Challenge leaves 1500 rural municipalities with no connections, no routes and no bus stops. Minister, how are you going to ensure the maintenance of the current service? Will it continue to impose cuts in the right to mobility? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u84	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u85	Thank you very much, President. Mr Lorite, you asked me about the concessional map of the bus service by road and, from there, you have taken the opportunity to make here a totum revolutionutum of issues that are not at all suited to the policies that are being promoted by the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. On the issue of the concessional map, I think you are picking up an unfounded bubble which originated a few weeks ago as a result of the progress of a working document to the Autonomous Communities in order precisely to carry out a review of a concessional map which had remained and had lapsed. Of course, it is our responsibility precisely to guarantee that right to mobility for all citizens and especially for citizens living in sparsely populated areas, and we will do so with agreement, with dialogue with the autonomous communities. But it must be done in a rigorous way, it must be done by ensuring intermodality and also that it is a complementary map to that of the autonomous communities. I believe that this Government is demonstrating that it is sensitive to guaranteeing this right to citizens. The real decree that we presented and that we approved last Saturday precisely approves a contribution for the autonomous communities under the responsibility of the State of 30% in travel titles, in bonds, to guarantee that right to mobility. We have taken a great deal of action. The mobility strategy that we have adopted is precisely part of that analysis of the needs of rural areas, and the commitment of this Government, of course, is to ensure this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u86	Mr. Lorite.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u87	Madam Minister, the document makes it clear to me that more than 3 million people are going to lack the bus service they have today. That's what the Ineco document says. Minister, let it harm rural mobility, convene a sectoral conference and agree a document with the autonomous communities and with the actors in the sector. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u88	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u89	Mr. Lorite, that's exactly what we're doing. I insist: it is a technical working document, it is working at that level. Technically, numerous meetings have been held with the Autonomous Communities; it is precisely now that the deadline is opened for comments to be made and that, in addition to the concessional maps that have been approved by the Autonomous Communities, we can guarantee this right and correct the inactivity of previous times, in which nothing has been done to guarantee the road bus service for citizens and especially in these rural areas. We are not prepared for the mistakes of the past to be made again now and, therefore, do not insist, it is not a document... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: what urgent measures will it implement? THE GOVERNMENT TO CORRECT THE PAPERRIME AND RIDICULATION BUDGETARY IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STATE IN ASTORIES IN 202021 THAT, WITH A PURPOSE 41 %, SITUATES THE REGION TO THE COLLA DESPAIN ADDING HIS DECADE, DEPOBLETION AND FAULT OF LABOUR OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE? [[File number 180/000993]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u91	Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u92	Minister, the General Intervention of the State has revealed another colossal varapalo that places Asturias at the tail of Spain in the budget execution of 2021. In a critical period for the economy and for the maltreated social and productive fabric, the government wasted almost 60% of the investment for the region, implying waste of time, resources and employment. Hence I ask you about the urgent measures you intend to apply to correct and reverse another black chapter in the history of Asturias. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u93	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I have already repeated on several occasions questions from other autonomous communities, but also in some question before this very plenary, that if you refer to the document of the General Intervention of the State, you must of course start from the basis that this document, which is an accounting document, does not accurately reflect the actions that are being promoted, that are being developed. Never before have so many actions been carried out as this Government and, in particular, in Asturias, this ministry is doing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u95	Mr. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u96	Well, then, as Indra, as INE and as many others, let the General Intervention of the State tremble! It is shameful that the inability and inefficiency of the Government has added a substantial part of the resources that the budget law had in the past year; shameful, embarrassing and irrecoverable, despite the photographic safari vacuum of Adrián Barbón, consul of Pedro Sánchez, to proclaim exactly the same projects that the PSOE has been delaying and paralysing in Asturias, some since the beginning of the century. This is the case with the road infrastructures of the south-west and El Musel, planned in 2005, or the roads of other places in Asturias, railways, such as the AVE of medium hair and low speed that they want to endorse us to the Asturians. It is also the case of the abandoned neighbourhood service or of the railway integration plans in Langreo, Avilés or Gijón, where the Government tossed out the agreement agreed by the administrations. The colophon of the absence of the government in Asturias, reflected in the worst level of budget execution in Spain with the perpetual slots of the Principality, cannot be more desperate. Asturias is ageing, Asturias is languishing, its young migrants, farmers and fishermen are resigning, the rural environment is depopulating, the basins are deserting and the investments are fading due to the enormous contempt of this Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u97	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, of course it will be bad publicity you make of Asturias, of the Principality of Asturias,, which is a magnificent land and to which, of course, we are absolutely committed, with the Asturians and with the Asturians. [[applause]] I shall not refer to those personal allusions which are so unfortunate that you make and which certainly do not contribute anything to the parliamentary debate. You refer again to the execution of the investments in Asturias, but, I insist, those figures contained in that document of the General State Intervention do not reflect the actions that we are promoting, not reflect the commitment of this government; a government that approved for this budget of 2022 an investment amounting to 482 million euros, 50% more of the budget approved by the People's Party and which you supported. I'm going to give you figures, too. Since June 2018, we have been bidding for around 850 million euros, 750 of which are investment, more than double, in particular 131% more than what was called for by the previous government, which you supported, and we have also awarded 700 million euros, 550 of which are investment. But if you want, I can talk about concrete actions such as, for example, putting in service next year from the tunnels of Pajares, which will allow the arrival of high speed to Asturias; the third lane of the Asturian Y; the emergency works that we are going to put in service of the bridge of La Barroso, and also the advances in the northern round of Oviedo. Therefore, our commitment to Asturias... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO BEFORE THE GROWING SOCIAL RECHANCE THAT CONCITIZED MANAGEMENT? [[File number 180/000997]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u100	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what is the government going to do in the face of the social climate of rejection caused by its management?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u102	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. The first thing I want to do is to remind your colleague, Mrs Olona, who is still a Member of this House, if I have no misunderstanding, to collect, but not to come to work. [[Applauds]] You are very old, and therefore the first thing I want to do is to welcome you to Spain of 2022, Spain which this week is celebrating the Day of Pride, the pride of wanting with freedom, of marrying with freedom, of feeling with freedom, of living with freedom. I imagine, Mr. Gil Lázaro, that you too will celebrate the Day of Pride, but the day of the pride of the ultra-rightist, where there is no word freedom, but yes the word crispation, the word hate and the word lie. [[Applauds]] We will continue to work from the Government so that no political party like yours will ever try to lock people in the closet, as happened during ominous decades in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u104	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, I am not going to fall into one of your provocations because a speech as miserable as yours believes that this government has nothing to say and lacks respect in an insulting way for this House, which represents national sovereignty. That is why, with speeches like yours, Minister, it is understood that more and more Spanish households can no longer reach half a month and that the electricity bill, the shopping basket and the price of fuel, and very soon the rise of mortgages, are dynamising the domestic economy of the middle and working classes; in the meantime, the government is dedicated to the absurd, ridiculous, pathetic and caricature insult, as you have just done this morning, and also to invent a parallel reality. It has been seen again these days, Minister, with the measures adopted; measures which are pure patchwork, which do not respond to the structural reforms required by Spanish society and which are accompanied by an assault on institutions, an assault on companies and more propaganda. That is why, Minister, it is understood that the social climate is increasingly rejecting your management, your futility, your inability, the scam you have made for millions and millions of Spaniards and, of course, speeches as absurd, as pathetic and as ridiculous as the one you have just spoken. No, Minister, here they still do not do a drastic tax reform to lower them to the benefit of those who have less, and here they continue, however, to keep the continuous waste, the rumor in occurrences and nonsense. Therefore, Minister, as much as you don't like it, VOX will continue to defend your ideals clearly, firmly, with humility, without scarecrows, by standing by people's problems and building a future in harmony, in justice... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u106	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u107	... in social progress and in freedom to which all Spaniards belong; not like this government, which for it only exists those who vote for it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u108	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have the boldness to talk about waste, superfluous spending and unproductive spending. When I hear those words, I get the face of Mr Abascal and the vice president in Castile and León, who is dedicated to going to pony contests instead of doing something that is productive for the citizens in Castile and León. [[applause]] Look, we dedicated ourselves to the things of eating: we have lowered the light, we have lowered the butane candy, we have lowered the gasoline, we have lowered the price of public transport, we have raised the minimum wage, we have raised the minimum living income, we have raised the pensions. [[rumors]] And how much do you care about this? Nothing, because you are the party of reactionary elites. They care nothing, absolutely nothing. [[Applauds.-Protests]] That is why I say that you are the anti-Spain, because you neither defend nor represent the middle classes, the working classes, the people who need the public to live better, to have better living conditions. Look, you've been in this House thirty-seven years. When I started EGB, you were already a Member of this House. [[Rumors]] In these almost forty years there have been many changes in Spain: the law of divorce, the law of dependence, the law of homosexual marriage, the law of euthanasia. Do you know what the ultra-right and you have contributed - because you have always been in the same place, in the extreme right or in the extreme right - You have contributed nothing, because you do not represent the middle and working classes, represent the reactionary elites Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MRS CARMEN NAVARRO LACOBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: HOW DO YOU THINK TO GUARANTE THE EQUITY OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM? [[File number 180/000991]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u110	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Carmen Navarro Lacoba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u111	Mrs. Darias, Spain runs out of family doctors. Primary care is on the verge of collapse. You know this because professional organisations tell you, it's denounced by trade unions, and patients, all patients, live where they live and rule whomever governs them. And above all you, with the electoral haste of Andalusia - Andalusia, where you lost everything - invented a law of alleged equity, without even time to receive the reports of the consultative bodies, to codaços with the competences of the autonomous communities and with the announced vote against their government partners. Madam Minister, equity, true equity, is to ensure health care for all patients throughout the territory and, therefore, to equip the staff with doctors and other health professionals. And I ask you, are you planning to do something really useful for equity in the National Health System? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u112	Minister of Health,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Navarro, in this government of progress - and every time the socialists have held government responsibilities in this country - what we have done is to expand the rights that the governments of the People's Party cut, eliminate the co-ops that the Government of the People's Party imposed and, in addition, reverse the cuts in public health that the Government of the People's Party has made every time it has ruled in this country. That's how we guarantee fairness. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u114	Mrs. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u115	Mrs Darias, keep the policy of fear and cut-off and assume your responsibility, which is a minister's responsibility. The great challenge facing Spain's National Health System is the deficit in the structure of doctors. 20% of the staff is over sixty years old; Spain will need 9,000 doctors in 2027 and 18,000 in 2035. The autonomous communities, in the absence of measures and support from their ministry, are forced to compete with each other by primary care doctors. His mir has failed, there were 200 places left without family doctors, and his back patch to the professionals has not worked. Madam Minister, remember. The Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain had an agreement that this would not happen. An agreement adopted unanimously at the Interterritorial Council of the Ministry of Health in April 2018 with the communities of the Socialist Party and other political forces that requested it and with the Government of the People's Party that wanted to do so. But the motion of censure came, yes, and Sanchez has later settled in the no no to the People's Party for four years and four ministers. So, Mrs Darias, I am going to ask you: resume the consensus of 2018, recover the reforms of the governments of the People's Party, which agreed with all the autonomous communities, and add-because it is urgent - the specialty of emergencies and also reverse the disastrous changes of your system look. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u116	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u117	Thank you, President. Mrs. Navarro, you don't even blush with what you say. Much of the blame for the current deficit that we have has to do with the cuts in specialized health training carried out by the governments of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] But I'm going to talk to you about fairness, Your Honor. I will talk to you about fairness and the bloody cuts you have made while you have ruled in this country in public health; for something it will be, for the interests you have in the other side. But also, Your Honor, closing offices and closing hospitals and if not, ask the Castilian-Manchegos, who you know well about your trajectory. That is why this Government has adopted a bill that guarantees equity, cohesion and universality. You know for what? To extend rights, to extend rights to Spaniards living abroad when they come to Spain, to extend rights to health care to the ascendants of the grouped persons, but also, so that there is no doubt, so that the unregistered or authorized persons have the right to health care and that it does not happen as when you ruled in 2012, who took away the attention of the migrants of this country. [[Applauds]] And in addition, I tell you one thing, Mrs Navarro, we are eliminating the sanitary co-sponsors that the People's Party established at the toughest time in this country. It imposed health co-payments on pensioners with lower incomes and we have eliminated it. You know for what? So no pensioner has to choose between going back to the pharmacy or the supermarket. This Government of progress guarantees this. [[Applauds]] And besides, with themes they quegarantize equity. Now I'm going to stop at something that's very important and that this armored law, which is public health, public health. And in Pride Week, Mrs. Navarro, do you know what fills me with pride from this government? Let us return the possibility to lesbian women, bisexual women and trans people who are unable to conceive, that they can access the assisted reproduction techniques that the People's Party eliminated by a question of ideology. [[Applauds]] With the People's Party, with the right, there are no rights, with a government of progress, there are rights, there is dignity and there is decency for the citizens of this country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NAVARRO LÓPEZ PENDOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, THAT FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF CONSUMER: SHARE THE MINISTER OF CONSUMER THE ORGULUM THAT SUPPOSE TO ALBER A NATO COMPUTER? [[Expiry number 180/000990]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u118	Question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Question by Mr Pedro Navarro López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Garzón, a few years ago you believed NATO was a legal terrorist organization, a criminal alliance, came to say. Do you continue to think that you are now a minister of the Government of Spain or, as Minister Montero said earlier, is it an example that one thing is to preach and another to give wheat? Do you think that your colleagues on the Council of Ministers of the Socialist Party support a legal terrorist organization? Do you think Pedro Sánchez is part of a criminal alliance? On Sunday the government lamitad protested against the other half among recognized pacifist symbols: the flag of the Communist Party or the faces of Stalin and Lenin. His party called the leaders of the most consolidated democracies of the worldlords of war. Do you believe that the President of the Government of Spain is a warlord? Half of the government was proud that Madrid hosted the NATO summit, the other half called Nazis those who have been debating since yesterday how to get rid of Putin - who, by the way, casually calls Zelenski and all the Nazi Ukrainians as well -. Do you think Mr. Marlaska or Mrs. Robles are Nazis? The question we ask ourselves, Mr. Garzón, is who you are with. Evidently, now he's alone, as almost always. Are you with the general secretary of your party who did go to the demonstration? Are you with Podemos, who made you a minister, even though you betrayed them with Yolanda Díaz? Are you with Yolanda Díaz and the Socialist Party, which do support the NATO summit? Or are you - as you can imagine all the Spaniards - alone? Do you think, like Pedro Sánchez, that it is a pride that this summit takes place in Madrid? Are you committed to military spending? What do you think of Mr. Biden's announcement yesterday to increase frigates on national territory? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u120	Minister for Consumer Affairs
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Navarro, you ask me many questions, not just one. No problem at all. I will begin by telling you that I feel enormously comfortable because I am deeply proud of the majority values and principles of this country, which, as an international policy, are of peace and solidarity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u122	Mr. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u123	His pacifism, his peace, is with Fidel Castro and the 8,000 Cubans killed. [[Applauds]] His pacifism, his peace, is on the Berlin Wall and in the more than 600 people killed trying to cross him to go to freedom. [[Applauds]] His pacifism is with two genocidal perpetrators of the murder of more than 23 million people, as we could see on Sunday. That's your pacifism, Mr. Garzón. Can you imagine Macron seeing half the government call them the Nazis? Can you imagine the President of Poland, who has suffered communism, seeing the face of Stalin or Lenin in Madrid? If Mr Sánchez does not dare to cease, be consistent and leave office; he has been a communist for a long time, suffering as a Minister of Consumer Affairs. Stop suffering, go away. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u124	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Navarro, you really knew this was accountability and you know you're not asking for accountability. You know perfectly well that I am the federal coordinator of an organization, United Left, which has more than thirty-five years of life, which was founded on the heat of the mobilizations for peace and against the entry of Spain into NATO, and that since then my organization has thought that the best way to preserve peace is to guarantee the autonomy of European countries in economic, social and military matters. I know that you are a member of a party that has a different model, we all remember the picture of the Azores and the picture of the feet above the table, but we think it is much better to preserve peace to guarantee the autonomy of the European Union. Mr Navarro, you have made an exhibition, a profoundly ideological intervention. Nothing to see there, I just want to say that your anti-communism also has a cure and remind you that one of the things you can do is go to the Constitutional Hall and observe that among the parents of the Constitution are members of the Communist Party of Spain and that, therefore, you are exercising your rights thanks to the fact that the Communist Party of Spain and its militancy fought to build rights and democracy in this country [[Applauds]] Mr Navarro, a quick thought. You and we talk a lot about security, it's normal, it's the world that has touched us to live, but there is a big difference: you understand security only as a military concept, it's quite flat and linear in that. For you almost all international conflicts have the same answer: more weapons, more walls, more police, more fences, more army. [[Rumors]] You are quite linear in that, it seems that any such position, plus a tax drop, would solve it. For us, however, security is a civil concept. Much of the international social conflicts have to do with inequality, poverty, poverty, the fight for resources, climate change, and they need another set of instruments to be addressed. That's why I think we're talking about two different models. Well, it's legitimate, but I can assure you that it's my full conviction that our model, that our path, is the best to preserve peace. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the questions addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the situation of independent audiovisual production in Catalonia. For your defence, Mr. Margall Sastre has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, so that we can continue with the development of the plenary, I ask you to remain silent and to do so quickly if you want to leave the Chamber. Thank you very much. Mr. Margall. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u127	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs. Good day, minister. Data from the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia tell us that in 2020 the Catalan audiovisual sector invoiced 6702 million euros and was made up of 1102 companies that occupied 26,651 workers. The data refer to a Catalan audiovisual sector consisting of several business segments, of which there are three main sectors: one, media, radio and television news, social media and digital press; two, audiovisual entertainment, film and television films, television and video games, and three, advertising communication. This report points out that of the EUR 6702 million billing, 3860 are from the audiovisual entertainment segment, with 14,102 workers, followed by advertising communication, with EUR 2414 million and 9254 workers, and thirdly the media, with EUR 419 million and 3295 workers. It is clear that we are talking about very good figures that show the Catalan audiovisual sector's muscle, a sector that is mostly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed, that are capable of working with the major audiovisual platforms - and worldwide, if necessary - or that are capable of producing successful films such as Pa Negre or recently Alcarràs, and more when we talk about figures for the year 2020, the year in which the VOCID-19 pandemic broke out, which caused serious problems for the sector due to the lower billing in advertising, which was widespread in all media. However, in 2021 and already during this year 2022, the increase in billing in advertising is remarkable and the sector is dating back. Audiovisual is very important because it makes us imaginary, because it explains us as a society, because it explains our landscapes and our way of doing it. It is very important as a country, because we have great audiovisual professionals, with a lot of talent and, at the same time, it is a very powerful industry, with a lot of growth potential, in a world where everything is audiovisual. Last week the General Act on Audiovisual Communication was finally passed, after passing its procedure through the Senate, without any surprise or amendments incorporated, with the vote in favour of its party and the abstention of the People's Party. Let's take a little tour of this law. The Republican Parliamentary Group agreed with its group to withdraw the amendment to the general budgets of 2022 in full in exchange for the General Audiovisual Communication Law being negotiated and approved with us, and we subsequently agreed to our vote in favour of the general budgets of the State, among many other things precisely because of the agreement we reached for this law. This agreement, it rotated on two great axes. First axis, linguistic quotas of the official languages of the nations that make up the Spanish State other than the Spanish. In the first text of the law there was zero presence of the co-official languages, zero. That should make you reflect, minister. As a Catalan who is and as a convinced federalist, one has to ask this question: why did a fundamental law for the audiovisual sector of the Spanish State, drafted by the most progressive government of history, incorporate no language other than Spanish? Article 3 of its sacrosanct Constitution: 'The richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection'. In addition to language quotas, it was agreed to establish a fund for doubling in co-official languages, so that platforms could incorporate them into their catalogue and offer them to their subscribers. Second deal. A definition of what independent production was that would give continuity and future to this sector, which, as I mentioned in the introduction, is very rich and broad in Catalonia. As you know, minister, we discussed several possibilities of drafting this article and finally decided to leave it as it was in the original wording because, although it was not the definition that most helped the sector, it was accepted more or less by a majority. But what happened? That you, unilaterally, decided to break this agreement. Why? Because they agreed with the People's Party in the same Commission where the bill was discussed, and without warning, to change the definition of an independent producer so that it would benefit from the business conglomerate of the television duopoly that dominates the market in the Spanish state. I recognize one thing, minister, and it's that they did engineering with the amendment, engineering. They changed only one word, only one word, and with a word completely changed the meaning of the definition. This change leaves Catalonia's independent audiovisual production sector, largely made up of SMEs and self-employed, in a very poor position in front of the duopoly of the large private Spanish television channels, which will now be able to outsource the creation of fiction in their own producers. The association of independent producers of the Spanish State, PROA, assured, after the passage of the law in the Senate - I open quotes - that 'they were disappointed and concerned at the final approval in the Senate of a general law of audiovisual education harmful to independent production. The sector will continue to be mobilized to defend cultural diversity on all fronts' - closed quotes -. What did the large groups of private television promise them in return, minister? That they would treat bipartisanism well in the face of the Andalusian elections? That they will treat the great coalition well in the face of the general elections? Of course, then they say: it is that these independenceists are not to be trusted, they are not to be trusted. Of course, but on important issues of state they always resort to the PP, they resort to the People's Party, the great coalition, the wet dream of the regime of 78. Answer me, minister: is it more comfortable to agree this law with the People's Party than with the Republican Left? I'm finishing up. You, in meetings with the sector and in public statements, have said that all this is going to be resolved with the deployment of the rules of the audiovisual law, or through other laws that have portfolios, such as delcine law. Several questions for you. How will you defend the presence of Catalan in the audiovisual sector if you have agreed a law with the PP, a party that always tries to corner the Catalan language until it disappears, as it tries, for example, to do in the Catalan school? How are you going to defend the independent audiovisual production sector if you remove tools and give them to the large private television groups of the Spanish State? What will he do as Minister of Culture so that there will be many more films like Alcarràs, an independent production in Catalan language? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u129	Thank you, President. Very good morning. There has been a lot of talk about the audiovisual law and it will certainly continue to be talked about, but I want to say, first of all, that what is going to happen to this law is that independent production is going to have more help than it had so far. Secondly, I would like to say that I very much like to see the Spanish Constitution used as an argument of authority. I am one of those who think that the best guarantee for the coexistence of the peoples of Spain is in the Spanish Constitution. And third, of course, in the law of cinema we will regulate more strictly independent production. Why? For a very simple thing. In the audiovisual law we were regulating obligations for all sectors participating in it. In the film law what we are trying to do is regulate public policies and, of course, in the public policies of the Ministry of Culture, independent production, its promotion, is one of the key points. I therefore hope that when we talk about the bill - which will come to the House before the end of the year - we will be able to speak with knowledge and with texts ahead, which, on the other hand, is already known as the first draft, which has been submitted to public hearing. But I wanted to start where your lordship started to show my agreement with you. The audiovisual sector is at a good time, despite the difficulties that the pandemic has caused. How can that moment be measured? You have made it in contribution to GDP and it is true, it is very important; you can also appreciate it in jobs. As I see you have based your intervention, among other things, on the report of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, here we have some data that I think are revealing, because they tell us that if by 2020 there were 26,651 audiovisual workers, by 2021 there are 31 000. Therefore, and despite the pandemic, the sector is at a good time. Does it have to be better? Of course, I have said this on more than one occasion - it seems to me that it was replying to Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua -: when one sector asks for more, it asks for more, from the outset, I must say that it is right, that we can do more and better in favour of the audiovisual sector. I'm going to give you some data on what's being done by the Ministry of Culture. Firstly, we believe that we have done one important thing, namely that the funds in the recovery plan have been classified as a strategic sector for the audiovisual sector. Since then, EUR 805 million has been made available to the sector, which comes from the plans of the ICO, the National Innovation Company and the guarantees of the Mutual Guarantee Society, CREA. I must also say that we are in the highest historical level of public aid for independent production with this government, yes. The most progressive in history? Also. The history of our country gives for what it gives, take the country Catalonia or take the country Spain. We tried to support the audiovisual sector throughout your value chain, and you also mentioned it. The total amount of resources allocated by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, apart from the recovery funds, to cinemas exceeds the amount of EUR 102 million. Aid to the audiovisual sector has increased since 2018. I'll give you some figures. General production aid between 2017 and 2022 has increased from EUR 30 million to EUR 50 million. From 2018 to 2022, aid has increased from €7 million to €16 million. We have created lines of aid that previously did not exist, aid, in this case, to cinemas: the year 2020, 13 million; the year 2021, 10 million; the year 2022, 10 million; in total, 33 million. In addition, we have allocated EUR 9 million to promote audiovisual creative developments, supporting the laboratories where films are conceived. And I must tell you that, in this respect, we are also aligning our policies with those of the Catalonian Government itself, which in some respects has advanced and has been a pioneer in some of these new lines of work. There has also been great support for the internationalization of the audiovisual sector, 45 million in three years for the internationalization of the whole sector, not just cinema. As I said, the audiovisual communication law is going to expand support for independent production: from 0.9% to 3.5% of the obligations of providers to promote production. You say, and you're right, that it can be a production that doesn't just go to independent production, but, still, the increase is so great that it's impossible to think that there's going to be a setback, which, moreover, is going to be made more impossible by increasing public funds to help independent production and by the very contents of the film law, which we hope can come into force next year. If we have done the calculations correctly, the increase in investment in production is going to increase from 70 million to about 250 million euros in application of the audiovisual law, which is so criticized. And I must admit to your honor that in the process he suffered variations; what happens is that, as a Democrat, what Congress and the Senate have approved for me is the law in force. I must say that I was particularly comfortable with the text that came to the House, among other things, because I was a minister of culture. Of course, there have been criticisms of the law, which I can understand, but not share in its literality. Independent production is not at risk in Spain or Catalonia; cinema is not at risk in Spain or Catalonia. And if we find ourselves today in the highest historical level of production aid, I do not think I am wrong if I say that the next year will still be more and the next year more and more. Therefore, we are in a process of decrease and expansion and, of course, the Fund for the Protection of Cinematography and Audiovisual, which depends on the ministry, will ensure this. As I said, the law of cinema and audiovisual communication regulate different things. Audiovisual communication regulates the obligations of service providers, and film law regulates who is the subject of production aid. So, let's make a description, a definition of independent production more rigorous, if you want, more restrictive in the law of cinema. The investment of Spanish Television is also going to be superior thanks to the audiovisual communication law; it is going to increase from 22 to 55 million, if we calculate on the revenues of 2021. Therefore, we will continue to make that effort, and we continue to work also so that the film law can meet those demands that perhaps the audiovisual communication law has not fully met. We believe that this is an important step, which will certainly not be definitive, which we cannot say is perfect, but, of course, will allow us to continue to strengthen production in our country. You speak of the official languages, and you are right, in the law it was appropriate to introduce elements of obligation for the promotion of official languages, and, as you say, they are perfectly covered by Article 3.1 of the Spanish Constitution. If I do not say it wrong, it will turn out that 2.25 % of the revenue, of which it disseminates content, has to finance cinematographic works of independent producers in the official language of the State or in the co-officials. For co-officials, 15% of this part is reserved. In addition, a reserve for works in official languages of the communities is included in the programming and catalogues of linear and on-demand audiovisual communication services. In the case of Spanish Television, public television must continue to allocate 6% of its revenue to the financing of the European audiovisual work; 70%, which is 4.2 of the total, to independent production in the official and co-official languages. Of this sub-quota, at least 15% should be allocated to co-official languages, and at least 10% should be reserved for each of them. The audiovisual contribution also has an obligation for European work of 51%; and of that 51%, at least half must be in the official language or in the co-officials. In the case of traditional television, 15% of the total obligation must be exclusively in the co-official languages of the Autonomous Communities, with at least 10% reserved for each of them. The novelty is that this obligation extends to platforms and, since they do not have a traditional issue, a percentage of work is imposed on the available catalogue; in particular, a share of 30% of European production in sucatalogue and, of that percentage, 50 % in official or co-official languages; and, of that part, 40 % in co-official languages. We can certainly argue whether it is enough or not, whether it should be more or not, but I must say that what I do not think is correct is to deny the significant advance that this law marks. I want to say - and in the reply, perhaps I will be able to stop a little longer - that when we talk about production in Catalonia - and that was the subject, the situation in the audiovisual sector in Catalonia - that 30% of public production aid this year went to independent Catalan producers. Some will say that it is the typical favor treatment that is done to the independenceists who want to break Spain, etc., etc., but, simply, it is to recognize the vitality and creativity of a sector You have set two magnificent examples, Pa negre and Alcarràs, and, indeed, we are seeing that small and medium-sized producers are in a position to compete with large ones. Why? For the value of your products and sugar. In the reply I can continue to give you some data that allow us to say that the situation in the audiovisual sector is reasonably positive, given the circumstances, and that it will continue to improve significantly in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u131	Thank you, President. Minister, you have made a very comprehensive summary of all the language quotas introduced into this law. We know that, because it was precisely thanks to Esquerra Republicana and thanks to the negotiation that we had with you for the general budgets of the State which, in fact, these linguistic quotas of Catalan, Castilian, Basque and Galician are in the audiovisual law; which, by the way, were not in the original wording. [[The lady]] That is why I was telling him that he must lead us to a reflection, and you too, as the Catalan Minister of Culture who he is. Indeed, it is a step forward. Isn't that all we wanted? It is not all we wanted, but it is a step forward that, in this General Law on Audiovisual Communication, Catalan - the case that interests us - and other co-official languages of the nations that make up the Spanish State, have their presence, because, at this time and in the coming years, audiovisual consumption for the new generations of citizens will basically be through audiovisual platforms. But you have not answered me the question I asked you about how you will defend Catalan and the other languages in this law, if you have agreed with the People's Party, that we all know that, whenever you can, you try to corner the Catalan language. In any case, I hope that in the reply you can explain how you will defend the presence of these quotas in Catalan. Since you have given me a lot of data and have tried to answer what the Spanish Government is going to do for independent Catalan-language production, which I hope you will tell me in the reply, I will explain to you what the Generalitat of Catalonia is going to do, specifically the Council for Culture on this subject. What are you going to do and what are you already doing, after many years of inaction, on this issue? Firstly, aid to the sector will be increased from EUR 25 million to EUR 37 million for this year, specifically for the sector of independent audiovisual production in the Catalan language, with the aim of ensuring a minimum of four large-format films in Catalan per year. This raises the maximum aid to films and series in Catalan. You, as a co-participant, also know that, thanks to the negotiations of the Republican Group in the general budgets of 2022, the bottom of 10.5 million euros was reactivated for the Catalan language audiovisual, which was charged the PP in 2011 when it came to govern. Whenever someone loads the Catalan, the People's Party is among the usual suspects. The president of the Catalan Mitjans Audiovisual Corporation announced last week that the Super3 Club will be relaunched on TV3 this September, and it is planned to triple its budget by 2023. This is a clear bet for the children's and young people's public. Finally, yesterday, the Culture Counsellor, Natàlia Garriga, announced that, thanks to the negotiations between the Generalitat Culture Council and the major audiovisual platforms, Netflix has pledged to have 70 titles doubled and subtitled in Catalan in the coming months. In this sense, the first twelve titles that are already available to all customers, one folded and eleven subtitles in Catalan, have already been released - we met yesterday. Therefore, on the one hand, we shield the linguistic quotas in Catalan in the audiovisual law and, on the other hand, from the Generalitat, from the Council of Culture, we negotiate with the major audiovisual platforms in order to incorporate Catalan subtitled and doubled for the public who so desire. You see, Minister, you are agreeing with the PP to benefit the mainstream media and the Catalonian Generalitat, with the Republican Left in the Culture Council, implements policies to help the independent audiovisual and Catalan. [[Applauds]] Do you know what happens when left-wing parties make right-wing policies? Exactly, that the right passes over them. I hope you've learned the lesson of Andalusia. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u132	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u133	Thank you, President. I answer the specific question you have asked me. We want to continue to negotiate with you and we recognise that the fruits of the negotiations we usually make with you improve the quality of our standards and the quality of our public policies. For example, you will never hear from my mouth any criticism of the Generalitat's Culture Counsellor, with whom I join collaborative relationships. For example, the work we have done with some platforms to increase their offer in co-official languages has also been carried out through my ministry, helping in everything we have been able to and entering some areas that I recognize are very much discussed, where we could certainly move forward more and more quickly, such as sub-titling. We talked about this with Netflix and other platforms. You told me what the council and the government of Catalonia are going to do. If we are at a maximum and we announce that we are going to continue to increase it, and you are also at a maximum that you are going to continue to increase, I believe that you are a powerful message to the audiovisual sector; and if there is a healthy competition to see who does more, surely better. You referred to the report of the Catalan Audiovisual Council which, for example, says that for feature film productions, the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises devoted EUR 11.7 million and the National Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual Arts of the Ministry of Culture, 15. Is that enough? No, no, Are we on the right track? Yeah. Let me say this with a certain emphasis, because I believe that from his own intervention there is also a political will and a call for the promotion of our cinema or, if he prefers, our cinemas. We have achieved - and we talk about Alcarràs - a very important thing: a film shot in Catalan with non-professional actors, expressing a very local theme, very concrete, becomes universal and is recognized as such in a festival as prestigious as that of Berlin. That's the way. Do we have to continue to support it? Of course, never forgetting that the strength of the audiovisual sector lies essentially in its creativity and capabilities. As I said, almost 30% - 29.55 % - of the aid in 2021 went to Catalan producers. I think it is worth saying that there are all the sizes, because you were singing - which I share - to the small and medium-sized ones, but we must also celebrate the existence of important producers - let us quote, for example, Mediapro - because that allows us to project much more powerfully on the international market. So, I think we're in the right direction. I could give you even more data. In production, 15 million, 5.6 to Catalan producers. Why? Because they've earned it. It is true that the councilwoman has a similar problem in this to ours. When one gives aid and does not have an infinite amount of resources, he has to justify them very well and he has to find objective elements to grant them. It is not always simple and always our decisions, both those of hers and ours, are discussed. Anyway, politics has that. But, in any case, I would like to emphasise the coincidence in the need to strengthen independent production, to ensure that the aid retains a diversity, also in the linguistic field, and therefore I do not find it difficult to recognise the role of the Republican Left in introducing these linguistic quotas into the law at all. We'll have to go that way. You say: Do not throw yourselves in the arms of the right. Well, he didn't say that. Your Honor, I can feel very comfortable in your arms and therefore invite you to continue working for many years, for many years, to try to make a culturally more vibrant country, more respectful of its diversity and more proud of its internal plurality. I believe that this is what the real constituents wanted, and that is why, among other things, they drafted as Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution did. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u134	Thank you very much. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP [[Lord KANDAMIL KINGDOM]] , TO THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA ON THE DISPOSAL OF THE VIADUCTO DE O CASTRO IN A-6. [[File number 172/000227]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u135	Urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil, to the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda on the collapse of the O Castro viaduct in the A6. For your defense, Mr. Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, on June 7 a section of O Castro's viaduct collapses, near Pedrafita do Cebreiro, something surprising because we are talking about an infrastructure inaugurated in 2001, therefore, twenty years old. This is the first case, which we know, in the Spanish State, at least in a recent time, that an infrastructure of these characteristics collapses and collapses. Despite this, the response of the ministry was also surprising: obscurantism, lack of information, lack of agility in decision-making - for example, the parallel viaduct was still operating one day with circulation - and above all, in our opinion, disinterest. The only public office of the ministry that approached Pedrafita was the general director of Carreteras. It seems to you that this was not an important matter, despite the fact that it cut off one of Galicia's fundamental channels of communication with the Peninsula and caused enormous difficulties for the movement, especially for the transport of goods, with the increase in the production costs of Galician companies. Fortunately, there were no victims, but it was - we have to say - a big question of luck, because minutes-almost seconds - before the collapse there were operators working on the platform that fell. Ten days later, a second void fell. Now you did consider it relevant to visit the area, but that meant neither information nor transparency, but to continue with the obscurantism, obscurantism because it was even attempted - we found at first by the ministry - to avoid informing which companies were involved in the construction and there was - still no - convincing explanation about the causes, when not contradictory explanations. It was said that corrosion had been valued in the metal cables that hold the viaduct's valves and that for this reason it had been in construction for almost a year, but at the same time it was reported that these cables were already replaced by new ones, so it should not have been the cause of the collapse. We also learned that that section of the A6 between Vega de Valcarce, Pedrafita and Becerreá had already ten years - ten years - with repair works. Attention, not maintenance, but repair. How do you explain an infrastructure that is only ten years old or fifteen years old needs repair? They haven't done it yet. We ask: Why do they not clarify whether there was a problem in the design of the project and, therefore, it is the responsibility of the ministry, of the Spanish Government, or it was a problem of execution and, in that case, the responsibility would be of the company or of the construction companies? We know that at the time of the award the Government was of the People's Party, but you, trying to hide information, unfortunately, seem to protect the same interests. That there is talk of corrosion of the metallic wiring by the use of salt in a mountain area where it freezes and snows every year in a usual way seems to indicate little forecast in the project and it is also curious that a new constructive procedure was employed in the Spanish State that was being launched, which we know, on the Galician motorways. Also indications of possible responsibilities in the execution of the works, which suffered delays and changes in progress. In 1999, the BNG qualified the work as a cobblestone and two councillors from Becerreá - one of them the nationalist spokesman, Antón Bao, and another, by the way, from the Socialist Party - were arrested for chaining themselves to the machines to paralyse works that they understood were not being properly executed. In the same year, by the way, a book by Manuel Monge was published, significantly, entitled Autovías galegas. Chronicle of a farce. Precisely, a report made in 2003, published in the Revista de Obras Públicas, warned that in one of the sections built then, in particular the one that collapsed, it was chosen - I quote literally - to bring to the limit the possibilities of prefabrication, obtaining very slender structures, with an important saving of material. And, therefore, also with a significant cost saving for the construction companies, it should be remembered that they agreed to this tender with a significant drop of 25 %, which in these cases could be considered even a reckless fall. In this study carried out by the engineers of Caminos Ángel González del Río and Ángel Martínez Cela - precisely responsible for the sections VilafrancaCastro, LamasCastro, LamasCereixal - it is indicated that in the construction of different sections all kinds of solutions were used, from the more industrialized ones, building viaducts almost entirely with prefabricated elements, until cases not seen in Spain to date, with prefabricated vaults for the two streets with lights of 75 meters. It also indicates that in other cases the traditional method of successive flasks has been chosen, but they end up indicating, precisely, that - as we say - the limit - the possibilities of manufacture have been brought to the limit, with an important saving of material that could perfectly have been behind the collapse of this infrastructure. And what were the construction companies? Thus nothing more and nothing less than FCC, with 66 %, and ACS, with 33 %, i.e. two of the main construction companies that bid public works in the Spanish State. I don't know if this is behind that attempt to hide that information. Therefore, the hypothesis that the accident of the viaduct was a result of errors committed in the constructive phase gains weight. As we said, those companies that built this infrastructure, like a large part of civil works companies, depend essentially on their operation of public contracts and, therefore, this can justify such a significant drop in access to a work that was substantial, but which, presumably, may not have been properly executed. In addition, there is a direct connection between these companies and cases of corruption in the public administration of the State, and particularly cases of corruption in the People's Party. ACS and FCC appeared on several occasions in plots of corruption in different areas of the world, but, without leaving Galicia, these two companies were pointed out in 2006 by the former manager of the Galego People's Party, Modesto Fernández, co-donors of the People's Party, as donors of the PP. Precisely, in the accounting of this delivered by Luis Bárcenas to the judge of the National Court, Pablo Ruz, ACS appears financing the People's Party with 60 100 euros and FCC with 108 000 euros. Specifically, the former president of the latter company, José Mayor Oreja - by the way, brother of the Minister of the Interior of the Government of José María Aznar - acknowledged in court that he had made payments to the People's Party. Today, the main shareholder and current president of ACS is Florentino Pérez. All this leads us to wonder why the causes are not investigated and why full information is not given, why there is no transparency about such an unusual fact and, therefore, as surprising as the collapse of an infrastructure which is only twenty years old, and what are the responsibilities, if the ministry itself, for a project which was approved and which did not correspond to the characteristics of the terrain, the characteristics that were needed in such infrastructures, or of the enterprises. We also wonder, if it is business, why the ministry has been taking on repair costs for ten years. It should be remembered that this part of the viaduct, that of the entrance to Galicia, has already been almost a year out of circulation by important works - as we said - of replacing wiring and others. And we also call for a complete audit of all the A6 and Baixas motorway viaducts and tunnels, which was carried out during the same period and, as far as we know, in some cases with the same constructive procedures, so that users who enter and leave Galicia on these roads or use them in our territory, the territory of the Spanish State, have the absolute certainty that they can circulate without any problem and without any risk. We also want to know what are the solutions, both temporary and definitive, of the ministry. What calendar does the ministry manage to regain the use of the A6, at least in one sense, as it had been before this collapse? And what are the forecasts to alleviate the traffic difficulties that are occurring at this time? With some of the other infrastructures planned in our country, such as, for example, the A76, if it were already implemented, which does not happen, we would have fewer problems. Or even with some of the railway infrastructure and services that connect our country, if they worked better, the existing problem would also be reduced. For example, with a rail connection between Lugo and Ourense connecting with the rest of the Peninsula, which we know is in construction at the moment, but it is very late. Finally, we also want to know whether they are going to initiate any kind of investigation into what really happened to demand the responsibilities that would take place, whether those responsibilities are of the public administration itself as if they were of the construction companies. We believe, Madam Minister, that Galician society, that the Spanish State society has every right to know what happened and to have the responsibilities cleared up in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u137	Thank you very much. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Rego, in the face of the question that you pose, I believe that the first and most important thing, as well as the last week in the Senate, is that we all agree that our priority is to guarantee above all the safety of users, of workers, and we must be pleased that no human misfortune must be regretted. Obviously, we are very conscious, very sensitive. Of course, we share the importance of transport connections in Galicia - and not only in Galicia, but in our country as a whole - and we are putting in place all the necessary resources to solve this problem as soon as possible, this setback. We deeply regret the inconvenience that we are causing to drivers, citizens and citizens who are affected, to businesses, by the diversion of traffic, and we are already studying alternatives; in fact, we are studying them from day one. Therefore - I insist - our priority is and must be security, but also offer the most effective and responsive alternatives to the needs of citizens. In relation to this viaduct and the entire construction process, I would like to refer to the background. As you know and in some way have explained, this viaduct was designed with a constructive system widely used worldwide, both in Europe and in the United States; therefore, it is a system that is sanctioned by practice. Since its commissioning in 2001, it has suffered the effects - that is, it is also contrasted - of the melting salts during the processes and periods of the winter road. Last year, by carrying out a series of inspections on the viaducts, certain damage was found, we carried out a series of structural assessment tests, as well as successive reports from those tests that led us in June 2021 to implement the first diversions of traffic. The first diversions of traffic to ensure above all - as I said - these conditions occurred from June 2021 and from then on we began to repair the structure. It has been during the course of these works when last June 7th there was the collapse of one of the vain and, later, as you pointed out, last Thursday June 16th that of a second vain. After the fall of the first compartment, as a precaution, all traffic was diverted through the N6 road. Therefore - I think this is very important to point out - thanks to the inspections carried out and the actions resulting from them, we have anticipated and we have not had to regret any misfortunes. From the very beginning, work is being done at the technical level to know the causes of the collapses and to be able to execute as soon as possible a solution that will restore traffic. The best specialists at world level are working on these issues, as well as the best companies to undertake the actions - companies specializing in structural designs, pre-emptive techniques, construction, analysis and quality control of construction materials, bridge inspections, geology and geotechnics, safety and health, and road conservation and exploitation - in addition to the technical services of the Roads Directorate-General. In total, there are about sixty people who are working directly on this issue, being multidisciplinary teams working to get to a technically viable solution as soon as possible - I insist -. We are also collaborating with the General Directorate of Traffic, with the Civil Traffic Guard, with the government delegations in Galicia and Castile and León and with a long time and so on. Therefore, I believe that in this whole process from the first day we have acted, from the first day we have offered explanations of what we have at our disposal. It also called for caution on the other day, which is necessary, and for us to let the specialists work to know, first of all, what the causes of this incident have been and, above all, what the alternatives are, which we will deal with immediately. With regard to the presence of the ministry, I must say that on the day following the collapse of the first vain, on June 8, the Director General of Roads, on my behalf and on behalf of this ministry, was already giving a press conference where he explained how these bridges were built, how and when the damage was detected, the amounts allocated to such repairs and also the presumed causes, speaking in any case of hypothesis; all this at a short time of the incident. On June 17, I was in front of the area, where I had the opportunity to meet with the president and the councilwoman of the Xunta de Galicia and with the councilwoman of the Junta de Castilla y León. If this is not transparency, tell me what you mean by transparency. You're asking us for more personality. Let me also tell you that this very week - to be exact, tomorrow - will visit the viaduct the Secretary General of Infrastructures and will have a meeting with representatives of the Xunta de Galicia and the Junta de Castilla y León to inform and coordinate us. In addition, we have provided immediate information from the first minute through the various accounts and social networks of the ministry - from the first minute onwards - and specific press releases, both from government delegations and from the ministry itself. On the other hand, regarding the statements you have been making, you make some statements and insinuations that are very serious. They're very serious and if you're so sure of them, I don't know why you've waited so long to make the public. And since he makes innuendos even regarding alleged corruption issues, of course where he has to make that complaint is not in this House, it is in the Prosecutor's Office. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I ask you, in the face of a very sensitive issue, in the face of an issue that has a markedly technical character, to let the professionals do it, let the experts do it, let the engineers do it, please. I believe that in this we should be at least a minimally denigurous. You also refer to a report for 2003. In fact, this report is not such; it is an article published in May 2003 by the Revista de Obras Públicas. In this article, on the occasion of the completion of the works of the A6 between Madrid and A Coruña, a detailed description of this section is made. The use of prefabricated elements in bridge construction has a long history. A construction system based on the use of conjugated prefabricated vaults was used on the Castro viaduct boards. It is a system - I insist - widely used worldwide, both in Europe and in the United States, and therefore sanctioned by practice. And yes, it is true that pre-manufacturing allows to optimize the constructive sections that are manufactured, but they are manufactured in a plant with a much more controlled process, much better - we might say - and therefore eliminate and eliminate uncertainties that may exist in the elements manufactured in situ. That makes it possible to obtain higher quality structures, an aspect that also cites that article/report, to which you, however, do not refer. You have also expressed your concern about those structures similar to this one. Although we have already said this, I should like to inform you that we are doing special inspections on viaducts of similar characteristics. And we are also advancing in research, as it cannot be otherwise, and in traffic channelling. In terms of research, these geotechnical specialists, who told him that they were working, are defining the work that would have to be undertaken to analyze the state of the foundations both on the Madrid road and on the A Coruña road. Specialists in analysis and quality control of construction materials are studying the main lines of the research process. We are also beginning the surveillance work, consisting of the installation of a dome camera at an observation point on the N-6 road, near the Castro, in front of the collapsed viaduct, and specifically we have already begun the work for the implementation of fiber optics. All this, as I said before, with the cooperation of the Directorate-General for Traffic. And we have also begun to execute access to the batteries and foundations of the viaducts. In the direction of Madrid we have started the execution of an access from the Elestribo side A Coruña, which will reach the pile four of that viaduct, and it is also planned to start the execution of a second access to the viaduct of the Madrid road, starting from the stairway of the side Madrid, which will allow to reach the zone of the collapsed vans. As for the channelling of traffic, I must tell you that from the very night of the collapse of the first compartment, traffic was cut off on the other unaffected road and all traffic was diverted by the N-6. The actions of road safety that have been performed in the deviation are the integral replacement of the rolling layer of the firm, replacement and reinforcement of the vertical marking, repainted of the road markings throughout the section of the affected N-6, replacement and reinforcement of the marking elements, clearing of vegetation, conditioning of the connection of the N-6 with the A-6, maintenance and replacement of the marking elements and marking of the deviation. Tomorrow - I insist - the Secretary-General of Infrastructures is going to hold a meeting, at which we will also move that, although the current deviations are working, we are also working on a plan of alternatives that improves mobility in the affected area, a new solution of the diversion of traffic with which we can circulate as long as possible through the A-6 and the minimum time through the national one. Therefore, we are working and we will continue to do so, especially because we are committed to mobility, to better mobility of citizens, and to restoring the conditions of access to the A-6 as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, you have not answered most of the questions I raised to you. Perhaps the only one that seems important to me is that they are studying - we can call it audit, study or whatever they want; we are concerned about the safety of people travelling through the A-6 and the Ria Baixas motorway - viaducts of similar characteristics. We would like it to be made available to us at the time they have that information and - logically, that is their responsibility - to take the appropriate decisions if it is found that there is someone who does not meet the necessary conditions. In any case, it seems important that this be done. In relation to the rest, we continue a little in the same, a little the same, in which they are studying it. We would like to know if they are going to carry the investigation to the end, because I did not make any accusations, I simply gave data that are public and known: who are the executing companies of the work, their involvement in cases of corruption - we know this at the courthouse - the decrease in the bid and the use of a certain constructive procedure. All we have to do is investigate and take that investigation to the end. If the responsibility is of the ministry, let it be said; if it is of the enterprises, let it be claimed. Point. Older people, we asked for a calendar. There's no calendar. Apparently we are working on improving circulation in the N-6, but we do not know what is the ministry's forecast for the execution of the works that will allow the circulation to resume in the A-6, even in a single lane. I'll tell you something more general. These motorways were provided for in the General Road Plan, the implementation of which was limited to 1992. In the case of Galician motorways, it is rapidly changed by 1995. In the end, they were inaugurated in 2001, six or nine years late. It seems an endemic evil in my country, in Galicia, the neglect of road and rail infrastructure by central governments. Let us look at the AVE, which has just entered into force sixteen years after the first date. The first date that we can say is minimally serious is 2003, from the Government of Aznar and Álvarez-Cascos, because we cannot take Abel Caballero's promise, when he was Minister of Transport of Felipe González, that it would be in operation in 1993. As we know, you can't take Mr. Knight very seriously at all. The next deadline was Zapatero and Magdalena Álvarez, 2012, and after José Blanco, 2015, and Mariano Rajoy and Ana Pastor, 2018. Finally, it was inaugurated in 2021. Unfortunately, this dynamic continues with you. Data for the year 2021: while the budget execution for the year 2021 in Galicia is 67.2%, in Madrid it is 184 %. In other words, at the end of the financial year, the Community of Madrid was provided with items which almost doubled those initially budgeted. In the case of Galicia, 67 %, taking into account that it was the lowest budget in seventeen years and that it worsened by 104 million euro last, the previous, the year 2018, of the People's Party. Finally, it seems that the ministers and ministers of Fomento, of Transports - wherever they are - find it difficult to see beyond Madrid. I mean wherever they are because, as you know, there were some Galicians. Perhaps that's why it took you ten days to ten days - to visit the place of the sinister, which surely would never happen, for example, in Madrid. Today we know that the budget for the implementation of the Atlantic freight corridor is 5%. The initial forecast ended in 2025. Today, our country's political, social and economic forces denounce that it is not even going to be in 2030, because it seems that all the Ministry's efforts are concentrated on the Mediterranean freight corridor. Minister - I finish -, fulfill your commitments; stop looking around or just to the east, look also to the west and comply with our country, with Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u141	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. You say that I have not answered any of the questions or that I have answered a few of the questions I have asked myself, but I believe that I have given due account of all the actions that we have carried out and the background that prompted in your day that these works of repair of the Castro viaduct should be started and above all, from that moment on, the transparency with which we have acted. You talk about works, you talk about public contracts, you talk about data and even in your first intervention you have talked about concealing the data of the contracting companies. The easiest thing would be for you to check it by going to the BOE, because everything you hire is published in the BOE. Therefore, there is no obscurantism or lack of transparency on the part of this Government. For your peace of mind, I would like to insist that we have a very clean system of inspections to which the entire road network of roads of the State is subjected, especially in the case of viaducts such as the Castro, which are really important from the point of view of the mobility that they guarantee. But, above all, given its importance and technical complexity, we are subject to a rigorous process of special inspections, because these types of viaducts are subject to special inspections in which we have all the means necessary to know the state in which they are located and to act with the necessary anticipation, with the necessary urgency, as has been done in the viaduct of theCastro, which has allowed us not to regret personal misfortunes. From the result of these inspections, from these actions, we will give due account, because the will of this Government, the will of this ministry is to be absolutely transparent; absolutely transparent. Therefore, on the basis of the inspections carried out, we will provide all the information, and if the analysis of the causes of these collapses in the viaduct's void results in some kind of responsibility, as it cannot otherwise be, we will act in the manner that it corresponds and debugging, as I said, those responsibilities. But I would like to repeat myself in this message and say that we are not who to prosecute whether or not the type of viaduct was adequate; I think that we should leave it to specialists with technical training and experience in this field. I ask caution so that this multidisciplinary team that is intervening in the determination of causes can determine them effectively and, from here on, the precise information will be provided and all appropriate measures taken. We're working as fast as we can. I pointed out to him here - and tomorrow too will be moved by the Secretary General of Infrastructure - all the emergency works that are being committed, that will be committed, all those actions that allow us to offer alternatives of mobility for the Galicians, the Galicians and the Castilanoleonese, who are also affected by the incident that happened in the viaduct of Castro. I do not doubt that we will do so soon and I do not doubt that we will continue with the pace of implementation of the investments we are implementing in Galicia. I insist on what I have already repeated on numerous occasions when I have been asked about the pace of implementation in the different autonomous communities, and that is that the report of the IGAE is an accounting document and, therefore, we must attend to the projects, to the works that are being carried out, that are being carried out materially. With regard to the Atlantic Corridor, I refer to a figure, but I also refer to the reality: this year's budget has allocated €1400 million to continue working on the Atlantic Corridor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u143	Thank you so much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Diplomatic Processing to explain the measures she intends to take to improve THE EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION, TRANSPARENCY AND CONTROL OF EUROPEAN FUNDS ASSOCIATED WITH THE RECOVERY AND RESILENCE MECHANISM. [[File number 172/000228]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u144	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the Government to explain the steps it intends to take to improve the effective implementation, transparency and control of the European funds associated with the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u145	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, in the afternoon, we knew that you would come instead of the Vice-President to attend to the inquiry; you will forgive me that you are not personalized, but I hope that in any case you will answer our requests. Today we called for the attendance in plenary to see what they intend to do so that the European funds of the reconstruction mechanism can reach us effectively and efficiently. We raised the question to the Vice-President because it seems to us to be a matter of the utmost importance for the future of our country which, for the time being, is not bearing fruit, but it is already progressing that we are not going to settle for an empty answer, of which in any case we will follow up. You will recall that last year we were sold the execution of the funds in the budget documentation as triggering the growth of this year, which they estimated was going to reach 7%, and it is true that it also included the execution of the two royal decrees laws supporting the solvency of companies, which are leaving much to be desired. Well, today, the forecasts of national and international institutions, including yourselves, estimate growth for this year at around 4%, 40% lower than the budgeted, and the INE itself has just revised the provisional growth of the first quarter by 33% downwards. We grow half as much as the EU average. The question, moreover, is that all estimates are subject to uncertainty, that is, that they may be further reduced throughout the year. A few days ago, the President of the European Central Bank pointed out that in 2023 Europe could enter recession, which is very bad news, and Spain will touch it without recovering. The vice president likes to say that the Spanish situation is good and that we are behaving better than the countries in our environment, that our growth is robust - well, now says it is strong and sustained - but the stubborn realities, and if by 2020 we fall by 11% and by the end of this year we reach just 9% of accumulated growth, what we find is a rebound, minister, that does not even lead us to the point of departure, this issue that those countries reached after all last year. It is demolishing to read in these days what has happened with the Spanish per capita income since 2019, which is the least growing, and widens the gap with our partners. And how does it seem they want to fix it: changing the indicators, with a scandal in the INE? Yesterday, after several days of confusing news, we rose with the resignation of its president, who has voluntarily left before you ceased it, a situation which is causing a serious deterioration in the image of one of the pillars of credibility of a democratic country. I don't want to make a joke about the Marx brothers, but it does hurt that you, with your attitudes and decisions, swing between the banana republics or the ways in which Kirchner rules marriage. It is true that a number of unfortunate and tragic circumstances are taking place, but we are all affected and we are much worse off. Of course, this news or that there are all indications that a concerted action has been carried out with a majority minority in a listed company, Indra, with the result of the cessation of four of its independent advisers - independent underlining - and the subsequent resignation of two more, do not help at all. Don't you have limits on your government, minister? That is why it is so important that Europe's opportunity for reconstruction funds is taken advantage of and taken advantage of soon. It's just like what other countries do or go even slower than us, because we need it more. I suppose you know the saying: evil of many, comfort of fools. Well, that's it. On Monday we knew that the Commission had given the approval to the implementation of the plan to unlock the second tranche of cash, 12 billion, at the expense of the agreement of the Member States. With this amount we will have received EUR 31 billion, of which we would have liked to know the breakdown. Does this mean that material payments have already been made for that amount or at least 22 000, deducting the advance? We don't know him, and there's no official record of him showing it to us. The Vice-President, in her statements, again said that we were the first country to apply for the second tranche, but that, as she said, meant nothing. I have at my disposal - and I have analysed in detail - the documentation you provided in your appearance in the Committee on Relations with the EU on last day 9 and your intervention. He again gave us very colorful transparencys from which one cannot deduce the actual execution of the plan by mixing concepts and the heterogeneity of the information they contain. As I said, the cause of this inquiry is the importance of the matter on which the funds revolve and the opacity and confusion of the public data that we can handle. These funds are not private to the central administration or the Government of which you are a member, minister, but are a right of all Spaniards who have granted us Europe - represented all Spaniards in this House - and that you have an obligation to execute well and realize that. That is why the questions I hope to clarify in your answer go in that direction. What measures do they intend to take to improve the implementation of the funds? According to the latest information provided by IGAE, implementation on 30 April amounted to 8,8 % of the final appropriations for this year and 5,6 % of the actual payments made. Is that what you call cruise speed in your public interventions? I remind you that the past year, on the occasion of the adoption of the 2021 budget, told us over and over again that the inclusion of service 50, the forecast of the expenses to be financed from the funds, was due to the interest of implementing as quickly as possible. However, last year implementation amounted to only 82%, about half in December, and 45.5% in payments, and this year seems to be on the same track. This does not mean that most of the execution or payments are transfers of funds to the autonomous communities or other public institutions and agencies, i.e. that it was not actually spent. In the presentation to the Joint Commission on last 9th, the Vice-President again used an expression as carefully coined - let me be ironic - as advances in investment and gave us a graph that, in fact, it is hard enough to understand, referring to 31 May, the date of which there is not yet adequately disaggregated official information. But we already know what you interpret by accounting; we have just heard in the control session - although now it seems that it has arranged a little - to the Minister of Development saying that the accounting of the IGAE is not representative. I think it's very serious, Minister. The figure presented to us by the Vice-President was accompanied by a short list of sixteen investments in progress - a term which is also not very accountable - amounting to 8 billion in a very different degree of maturity. Can't they or can't they explain how the funds are being implemented? In an inquiry similar to this last month of November I asked the vice president for the launch of the two platforms of her ministry, designed to monitor the execution of the funds by the executioners - worth the redundancy - last, and she couldn't or didn't want to answer me. Perhaps he did not want to, because at that time they were not in place and we are also not aware that they have been fully deployed, and they are the ones who would give us the necessary information about the actual implementation and the fulfilment of objectives in order to be able to act effectively and that there are no problems with the implementation of the funds at the end of the period. How are you really doing, minister? As you are well aware, Europe is like a bulldog which, with regard to the fulfilment of the obligations of the countries receiving funds, reaches its final consequences. He comes taking his time, but he always comes. We are therefore extremely concerned about the huge amount of money we are receiving and its effective implementation, which not only involves spending on spending, but also that expenditure is in line with the objectives set out in the regulation of the reconstruction mechanism. That is why we ask you to be effective, but we also demand transparency in order to be able to carry out our control work to the Executive. We still do not know the criteria by which certain LOSSes are selected and others remain along the way. At the 9th appearance we were announced that there were eleven in progress, but they only gave some data of seven, mixing resolved and open calls, and that is not transparency. Of the eleven, eight were approved in 2022, of which one was approved in February, five in March and two in May. And the PERTE VEC, which was apparently the most advanced, was approved in July 2021, the community approved it in December of that year and just a month ago it really got involved. Are you going to do something to account clearly for the performance and achievement of PERTE results, which are the crown jewels of your plan? Results, by the way, should refer to the creation of stable real employment and the generation of sustained growth. In this regard, I would like to ask you a question about a specific investment. Are the PERTE presented by the Vice-President fully funded from the funds of the mechanism? If so, how is the ESA share of EUR 240 million included in the aerospace sector, if it is a regular budget expenditure for many years and even so it is provided in that year's budget? How is additionality achieved with this investment required by the regulation of the mechanism? As a country, minister, the repeated complaints of information of the AIReF - on Monday, without going further - and of the Banco de España, that as independent supervisory bodies must make their preceptive reports and do not have data for it. On the other hand, there is also confusion about the criteria you are using to distribute funds territorially, in what you call co-governance with territorial administrations. Its budgetary distribution by ministries and its refusal to use the sectoral conference of the plan as a body of relationship and coordination - the conference that you preside over - has led to significant differences in the criteria that are applied according to the different sectoral conferences, which do not involve a real participation of regional governments as such and which may also lead to non-implementation of the funds distributed because of the lack of adequacy to the real needs of the territories or the ineffectiveness of the expenditure actually incurred. On Monday, the president of the AIReF denounced in this house precisely the worrying existence of calls that remained deserted in the communities. There is only a year and a half left to reach the end of 2023 and to execute a huge amount of funds such as the one pending is not an easy task, especially with the decentralisation of management. There is a risk that, at the end of the day, regular budget expenditure, investments that generate structural expenditure or unproductive actions in the terms that set the objectives to be achieved will end up being financed. In this regard, are they taking or are they going to take steps to ensure the proper implementation of the funds? With a double objective: on the one hand, so that we do not come to demands for reinstatement in the future, and on the other - more important -...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u146	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u147	Yes, I conclude, President. ... and another - even more important if it is possible - because we urgently need to grow and not continue to separate from Europe and create quality jobs, and not just permanent discontinuous or public workers who increase our structural deficit. Madam Minister, do not take this inquiry personally...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u148	Your Honor, thank you very much...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u149	...but as a constructive initiative...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u150	Your time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u151	...that we realize from our position as a responsible alternative. Thank you very much. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u152	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President and Your Honor. Indeed, I believe that - as you said, Mrs Rodríguez - all those who are here should at least be in favour of the recovery plan using and driving the reforms and transformations that are needed for our country, that they are implemented quickly and also effectively so that we can really take advantage of that investment of resources that come from Europe, whose design and construction, as you well know, led President Sánchez. And I tell you from the beginning, Your Honor, that I have listened to you carefully and that I believe that the central object of your inquiry has just had considerations that have nothing to do with the title, and believe me, Mrs Rodriguez, that measures the impression - it is an impression - that you were looking for the body-to-body with the Vice-President. When you have seen that this inquiry has been directed at the Ministry of Finance, since it speaks primarily of transparency and control, a mechanism that is mainly developed from European funds, I think you have felt a little ousted. Furthermore, I do not think that certain statements such as the one that you have made - at the time, I was not present in the Chamber - my colleague, in which I was not calling into question that accounting did not reflect reality at all. What he has said is obvious, that an issue is the accounting result of the implementation of investments. I put to you a case - I don't know if she has - in relation to the AVE: although there is an imputation of 20 million because there is a reduction of 70 million compared to the previous year, there had been a real execution of 90 million euros of the stretch. This I know you know, other people in this House do not know, but because of the functions you have previously occupied, you know perfectly well how an accounting is done and therefore that there are imputations, there are adjustments in national accounting that are not the same as what is expressed in the actual execution of the sections of a highway. I know you know that, Mrs. Rodriguez. So let us not try to get someone else to say what he really didn't say. But see that I am still one of the innocent who hopes that the new model that Mr Feijóo wants to represent with this People's Party will bring agreement, bring cooperation for the implementation of this recovery plan. And I tell you, Mrs Rodriguez, because it is obviously not what we have met; quite the contrary. From the beginning there has been a permanent opposition from his party. Your party did not like the news that Spain received 140,000 million euros; it did not like it because you have understood - far from interpreting that this is good for the country and therefore from the patriotic sense - that if that execution, if that approach is done as it is being done, it can give capacity for the current government of progress in Spain to solve some of the structural problems and fix some of the problems of the citizens. [[Applauds]] And the People's Party doesn't like Spain doing well when there's a government that you don't lead. This is the problem that you have with the opposition and this is the problem that you are constantly bringing to this Chamber and to this rostrum. If you govern, you demand that the Socialist Party behave in an exemplary manner. When you don't rule, it doesn't matter what the matter is, it doesn't matter if it's a state policy, which you oppose by system because what you practice is an anti-system opposition when you're on that bench. And I say this to you, Your Honor, because you have tried to boycott this recovery plan, a plan that the European Commission - nothing to do with the political feeling of this government, you know the political composition of the European institutions - described as excellent and points to Spain as an example of agility and management. You will remember, Mrs Rodríguez, that your former leader, Mr Casado, walked through the European Union trying to time, wear out, the credibility of the Spanish Government, trying to make sure that the money did not reach our country, and this was a disappointment to a leader who was representing his ranks until recently. But, now, this 'worst, better' that you were practicing follows your course and follows your road map, since Mr Feijóo has also been seen in Europe doing lomism: talking bad about Spain and trying to have mistrust about the management of European funds. The same old party as ever, the People's Party, yes, with different leaders throughout this period. I therefore believe that it is fair to acknowledge that this plan was adopted just a year ago and that Spain has been one of the countries that has made the most and best progress in implementing it, in accordance with the timetable agreed with the European Commission. We have already received a little over EUR 19 billion from this mechanism, EUR 9000 in pre-financing and EUR 10 000 from the first tranche of the disbursement, which means that the European Commission has attested to the fifty-two milestones proposed by this government. That is why, when you say that we do not implement the plan, I refer to the fact that these disbursements - and you will share it - would not have occurred if the Commission had doubts that the Government of Spain, autonomous communities and municipalities are complying religiously with the timetable that is set with the European Commission. It is a contradiction in itself that you speak of non-compliance with the plan and that the Commission continues to announce the disbursements we had planned in the timetable. Because remember also, ladies and gentlemen - and if I do not tell you this - that this very Monday we received the preliminary positive assessment from the European Commission in order to proceed with the second disbursement of the recovery plan, a total of EUR 12 billion. And you will share with me that Europe is not going to transfer 12 billion to the Spanish Government if you are not sure that the plan is actually being implemented, because to say the contrary, Mrs Rodríguez, apart from not responding to the reality, it really takes away your own credibility. EUR 12 billion in addition to these EUR 9 billion and also EUR 10 billion in the first disbursement. In total, Your Honor, more than EUR 30 billion that the European Commission has already made effective - or is going to make effective with these next ones - in just one year since the start of the plan. That is why all the arguments that you can make in this regard fall on your own. I ask you, Mrs Rodríguez, do you really question the positive assessment made by the European Commission itself? What conclusions do you draw that the Commission itself confirms that the significant steps Spain has taken in the development of the plan are those that encourage this payment? What do you suggest that Mrs Von der Leyen herself, who shares a political group - I would like to remind you - has acknowledged with you in Europe - I say in text - the important impetus of reform, the sustainability of public finances and has also congratulated Spain on the great effort in the implementation of the plan? Really, Mrs Rodríguez, that this does not lead you to any reflection on the position of criticism, permanent destructuringism that you practice and, consequently, to try to short-circuit this money now to our country, which is when we really need it? The same could be said of Mr Gentiloni and all those with responsibilities in the European Commission. But, Your Honor, although you have made outstanding progress in implementing this plan, you remain the same as from the first day, trying not only to give the public the appearance - which we are accustomed to - but also to sow doubts in the European institutions so that the plan does not arrive. We have promoted labour reform, pensions, revaluing them to the CPI, the adoption of the Vocational Training Act, the Law on Contaminated Wastes and Soils for a Circular Economy, and I know, Mrs Rodríguez, queustedes do not share these reforms that are being promoted by the Government of Spain, reforms of common sense, absolutely logical and committed to the European Commission itself. Mr Feijóo, on his last visit to the European Commission, said that he was going to implement that reform; that is, that he left the doubt that a hypothetical government of the People's Party was going to leave a reform that you voted against in vain. Imagine the permanent contradiction in the caskets are installed that no longer know what to say, where to say it and how to say it so that they put obstructions to the money arriving in our country. Furthermore, Your Honor, with the assertions you make, you often also question the proper functioning of all administrations, including those that govern. I would like to remind you, Mrs Rodríguez, that 15 720 million of the recovery plan has already been transferred to the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, are you implying that there is mismanagement, including the governments you preside over - Community of Andalusia or Community of Madrid, which are the ones who have the greatest volume of resources for their people - and that there is a misimplementation of the plan? Are you saying that the money that comes from Europe is being misused? Because I am concerned about myself as responsible for the public finances, and not only for the part that has to do with the AGE, but also for solidarity with the rest of the autonomous councillors and those responsible for the municipalities' finances, because when these statements are made and the focus on mismanagement is repeated, it is placed precisely on them. I think we need to be careful with the assertions, and it seems to me, Mrs Rodríguez, that when there is no evidence to be able to state such issues, we cannot talk about the headline elements, which may be picked up in a certain press, but which have nothing to do with reality. As of 22 June, EUR 36 582 million of investment expenditure has been authorised and EUR 24 billion of obligations have been recognised, Mrs Rodríguez. In addition, the deployment of the plan involves transparency mechanisms: a powerful computer platform in which the autonomous communities will soon enter, a comprehensive application that captures all the unbundled planning - we will also do so in coordination with the autonomous communities - and the link with the ARACHNE platform, which makes it possible to prevent the conflict of interest. Therefore, that there is no irregularity of any kind and, if any unwanted situation is known, that can be prevented, detected and corrected. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are complying, that we are doing it correctly, and I hope that the whole of the administrations will continue to comply with the milestones, as we have shown so far with the disbursements that the European Commission itself has provided, in time and form. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u155	Thank you, President. Let's see how I order this for the replica. Minister, I already knew, when I found out that you were the one who was going to bring the inquiry, that your answers were going to be very different from those of the vice president, with whom I already give up looking here - how did you say?; hope I have pointed it - one body to body. There'd be more to it. I have followed in my approach the structure of the Vice-President's appearance the other day in the Joint Committee on Relations with the EU and I have clearly explained why we are in the gallery with such a powerful tool of control of the members of this Congress to the government - which is controlled - as are the urgent appeals, which are followed by a motion. I think throughout my exhibition - and, as I have written it, I know what I have put and what I have written, it is not that I do not know what I put. I know what I write - I have not told lies or disrespected, and I have not even forced what you now call scandalous headlines into what means. You're going to let me tell you, with so much pain from my heart, that it was you who came into personal matters. [[Applauds]] You do get into the body every time. What does he come here to think back about? In an interpellation of this type and using this control tool we place ourselves on the day we are today and look forward; we do not look back, we look forward, which is what we need to talk about. And we are extremely concerned that you have arrived or are about to enter the Public Treasury for EUR 31 000 million because we fear that we will have to manage this, like everyone else, in the very near future and that we will meet again with the brown of the inheritances that we receive from you. [[Applauds]] And I also speak with knowledge of cause, as you have said, because, for good or for bad, I already have mili. Sending funds. Don't be trilera - it will allow me, with all the affection - in what you say, because it defends itself very well. He knows that the first payment - the first payment, not the advance of funds - did not entail actual expenditure because it was not what Europe controlled, but that, taking advantage of a relative application of the Regulation, as there had been regulatory changes, they used compliance with those milestones to make it effective. But now the additional 12 billion are coming, and I keep it, with the regulation in hand, is that I would like to know not what Europe has said - I am sorry, but I am not doing an act of faith - but what we have actually spent on accounting for it. He said that they have been given 15 billion to the Autonomous Communities. I think I've made it clear, I'm not saying that autonomous communities are mismanaged, I'm saying that they've been given conditionality that in many cases makes it very difficult to manage them and, if they don't manage in time... [[The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, delivers words that are not perceived]] Did the AIReF just tell us on Monday, or what the AIReF says, as an independent supervisory body, is not good either? I have put nothing in my intervention other than data derived from those official records, which appear to me insufficient. That is why I call for transparency, transparency and positive government. I'm not worth the clues, I want data. I'm a business finance manager. I am an accountant and, like St. Thomas, I want to touch him with my hands. He says that in obligations recognized on June 22 - you have the data, we have not - 24 billion have been spent. Are you in a position to say that it is really tax expenditure that has entered the Spanish economy or are those funds out there? I fear that they are funds that are out there and, as they are out there, what we are asking for, what my party is asking is for them to hurry, because we know very well what happens when time runs out: that they end up wasting the funds to be executed. And that would be a real drama for Spain. Anyway, I leave things to myself. I have already seen that you have not responded to the ESA quota because you know that I am right and that it is a test and not a sign that when we are given documentation they are trying to mess it up, because that is not a LOSS of the Reconstruction Mechanism and, if it were, we would be failing to comply with the Regulation. Indeed, minister, let us hope that they are more transparent and that this powerful tool, which I remind you that it had to have been launched last November, after your ministerial orders of September last year, we will have it once and for all and that, moreover, it is for public use. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u156	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. I with you have not entered into personal matters, Your Honor; with you not, with your party yes but with you not. [[Rumors]] Of course, of course, you call personal matters to me to denounce in this rostrum that the People's Party, from day one, is trying to put obstacles to the development of the transformation plan, and to that you call personal matters. [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Rodriguez, I'm not saying that exactly, because I don't believe it, tell lies...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u158	Mrs. Spain, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u159	... nor do I say that you lack respect, it is that I do not believe it of you; of other members of your group probably, but of you not. You are not characterised by these issues, but you say: Let's not look back. How can we not look back, Your Honor? How will citizens not be able to discern how a political party or government emerges from an economic crisis? They have to compare the exit model of the People's Party with the exit model of this progressive government. You: precariousness, deficit and cuts in public spending. And this government: reforms, transformations, impulse to new rights, ability to combat inequality... [[Applauds]] Definitive, Your Honor, a just exit from a crisis situation and an unfair exit - in my opinion - from a crisis situation. If we are not interested now in knowing how we have to value and contrast the policies that you are developing, then tell me what we are doing in this House. Probably the only thing we'd be doing would be meaningless politics. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, whether Europe recognises that the milestones are being met, the objectives that give rise to the disbursements, do we agree or not, Mrs Rodríguez, that the timetable scheduled with the European Commission is being satisfactorily met? Do we agree or not? Because I think you said: no matter what Europe says, it is not an act of faith. [[Mrs. Rodriguez Herrer makes negative gestures]] Well, if you haven't said that, I understand you, but what do you mean, Mrs. Rodriguez? Of course we have to trust what Europe says! And if Europe says that the Spanish Government is fulfilling it is because the Spanish Government is fulfilling it. What we cannot do is call it into question when it comes to good news for our country and try to exacerbate it when it comes to another issue. I therefore believe that it is very important to recognise that the Commission itself, which is exactly the one who has to certify compliance, is doing so, and not only with the advances, but, as I said earlier, already for this week with the EUR 12 billion that was raised last Monday by the Commission, where it was again stressed that Spain is one of the countries, if not the country, which has the most advanced recovery plan itself. Your Honor, if at one point you do not meet the milestones and objectives, I can understand that you make these statements in the rostrum, but it is that for some time now you have been assisting here trying to get news from where there are none, from non-compliance with issues that do not correspond to reality. That is what I am affronting you; I do not tell you to tell lies, but I am affronting you to try to say that you are not fulfilling yourself when the Commission itself says that you are fulfilling itself. That is meridian, it is crystalline, Mrs Rodriguez, and therefore it has little object any other consideration. Your Honor, it does not seem to me that in this rostrum - and it does not strike you - you say that when certain obligations are already recognized that remain there. It does not hit you, Mrs Rodríguez, because you know perfectly well what the accounting process is and, therefore, what it means that a certain amount of expenditure is already in the recognized obligation phase, here, in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities. And look, Mrs Rodríguez, I am concerned that the main opposition party, it is understood that with a desire to govern this country - it is understood, although I think it is enough for you - is always talking about a lack of transparency and a lack of management in the implementation of European funds, because you attract the supervisory eye not only of the European Commission and not only of the Government of Spain, if that makes you deluded, but also of the wealth of autonomous communities and municipalities. And finally, I want to say loud and clear that, until the opposite is shown here, the set of public servants who are at the forefront of this country's finances, including the management of European funds, except for some question-remember that of masks; I think it is not appropriate to remember it, you know perfectly well what I am talking about and I am not going to demagogue about the issue -, I want to say here that it does absolutely effective management, control and transparency. Therefore, Your Honor, I also defend the departments where you govern, where, with your assertions, you try to attract a focus that would be unfair to them and to the very implementation of European funds.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u160	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u161	Let's act like state parties if we're really state parties. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u162	Thank you very much. MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF EMERGENCY INTERPELATIONS: [[CONTINUATION]] - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE EMERGENCY SITUATION OF THE MENOR SEA. [[Madam Sabanas Nadal]] [[File number 173/000160]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u163	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal, into the ecological emergency situation in the Sea Minor. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u164	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Last week we had a debate with the Minister of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge on the ecological emergency situation in the Sea Minor. The most serious crisis, as we have already seen, is not a coincidence or part of a natural process, but it is the result of human action, the negligent action of mining, intensive agriculture, urban planning in the area and also the result of the inaction or indolence of the regional government, which has the highest competence in environmental protection. In 2019, the lagoon experienced the first major crisis of anoxia, preceded by many warnings and many diagnoses, which resulted, as we saw in the images, in 3 tons of dead fish. In August 2021 there was a second episode, and in September of the same year the ministry announced a plan of priority actions to restore the Minor Sea. On the other hand - as we all know - citizens, while the administrations were arguing, launched the popular legislative initiative to better protect it and so that the integrity and sustainability of the Mar Menor can be defended in the courts. In the meantime, from More Country Greens-Equo we have not been left out and wanted to make useful proposals and, in addition, to overcome. Therefore, in addition to supporting the People's Legislative Initiative, we tabled an amendment to the 2022 State General Budgets, with which we intended to set up a technical office for the protection of the Sea Minor. What was the reason for that amendment, which was finally approved and endowed with a million euros? In order to give an operational, rapid and coordinated response to the emergency to the diversity of plans, strategies and proposals and to the complex differences at the competition level affecting recovery. That is why we put forward this proposal, which was approved - as I told you - and the minister committed herself last week to making it work in the coming days. This is the issue on which we want to focus and concentrate today on the motion that we are presenting as a result of the inquiry. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as we said in the inquiry, the Mar Menor dies and, although it has and has had a lot of protection figures, we have to put a barrier and take emergency measures to prevent catastrophe. Firstly, we believe that we must have an integral view and that, after the diagnosis phase, it is very necessary to be operational with the planned measures, which is where we are going to play it, especially in two essential issues: one, the framework of priority actions of the Government of Spain and the other, the plan for the comprehensive management of the protected areas of the Mar Menor and the Mediterranean coastal strip, in this case, by the Government of the Region of Murcia. In addition, we have at our doors - as you well know - the processing of the ILP and its protection tools. So, in today's motion, what do we propose? First, the deployment of the office; the development and headquarters of staff from different administrations and programme staff; that is, the consolidation and actual deployment of a technical office capable of coordinating and evaluating. Secondly - as I mentioned - an integral view of the different performances. That is why an annual evaluation of the different actions, the different administrations and bodies for the recovery of the Mar Menor is proposed - something like this also said in its amendments by the People's Party. We also want coastal municipalities, which are mainly affected by ecocide, to be included in the decision-making and evaluation of the measures adopted. That is why we have proposed introducing and guaranteeing a decentralized and participatory methodology, so that, regardless of the initial location of the office, its operation and that of the different agencies, which will serve for the actions, will have an extension in the territory and in the different coastal municipalities. On the other hand, we propose that, as action plans are long overdue, a coordinated reassessment of all plans by early 2023 and, if possible, anticipate the objectives set out in the different plans. And, at the same time, we make two more proposals for the future. We believe that it is important to begin to analyse and reverse the collapse situation and, to do so, to study the possible closure of the artificially opened coves for the passage of sports boats, so that the lagoon gradually recovers its balance. Finally, we make a proposal for the future, creating the Mar Menor brand so that when the situation is resolved it is a sign for agricultural and fisheries products, and a symbol of quality and respect for the environment. We have worked on a compromise amendment with the Socialist Party that we are going to pass on to you. We have also tried to capture the main concerns and contributions, both of the People's Party and of the United Nations, which made respective amendments. In any case, I am grateful for your amendments and I am grateful to the Socialist Group and especially to Mr Soto Burillo for his efforts to find an agreement and a consensus solution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u165	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u166	I'm done, President. I believe that the motion is a good step, and for that I ask everyone and everyone to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u167	Thank you. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Sánchez Serna, the Confederal Group of the European Parliament, Mr Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia, spoke.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u168	Thank you, President. Last week a Moroccan senator from the People's Party, Francisco Bernabé, waved in front of Minister Teresa Ribera a poster with the slogan 'SOS Mar Menor'. That motto, which I also wear in my T-shirt, has become a cry for help that the people of my region have made their own to draw attention to the serious crisis that is looming over the ecosystem of the Lesser Sea. This senator, Francisco Bernabé, is the same as the government delegate who had the neighbors of Murcia beaten who did not want the stroke of the AVE to start their city in two. Perhaps that is why Mr Barnabas pulled the sign backwards, pure professional distortion; after all, he is more accustomed to repressing citizen protests at blows than to join them. If I start with this mockery of Senator Barnabas, it is because he exemplifies the sudden amnesia that has taken over the People's Party. For them, the problem of the Mar Menor is something that has emerged practically from yesterday for today and that the Ministry of Ecological Transition does not want to solve, and the PP, of course, only went through there. For a year now, the People's Party has only been talking about a rambla, the Rambla del Albujón, which pours its waters into the Minor Sea and which would be the source of all problems, of all evils, in order to, in this way, point to the Ministry of Ecological Transition for not diverting its flow. What the People's Party never talks about is the more than 1500 tons of nitrates that are still coming through this rambla and the rest of the rambla, and also the groundwaters of the Lesser Sea. Nor do you talk about the measures that you have not taken in all these years as a regional government to control the use of nitrates of agricultural origin, which have been poisoning our salty lagoon for decades. Faced with so much manipulation, they will allow me to remember once again in this rostrum what is the cause of the critical situation in which the Sea Minor is located. The Mar Menor has been contaminated for more than four decades by the multi-purpose discharges of the agricultural business of the Camp de Cartagena, which is joined by enormous urban pressure and heavy metal drags from the soils of the Cartagena mining saw, which you have never restored. This is the truth of the Mar Menor: about 300 000 tonnes of nitrates that have accumulated in the nearly twenty-seven years of the People's Party government and that have turned their transparent waters into a green soup and their sandy bottoms into a swampy celery. At this stage, the question of citizenship seems clear. Why has nothing been done to reduce the use of nitrogen fertilizers when a European nitrate directive has been in existence since 1991 and when the Mar Menor has already been declared vulnerable to this specific pollution in 2001. And, above all, the powers are exclusive to the Agriculture Council of the Region of Murcia. Why hasn't anything been done? To know the truth, as usual, you have to follow the money trail. The agribusiness multinationals that operate around the Mar Menor charge almost 3000 million euros each year. We are talking about business groups such as the British GS Group, whose Spanish subsidiary is accused of dumping more than 800 000 tonnes of contaminated brine into the Mar Menor. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what is happening in the Murcia Region. There are multinationals that pollute what they want and whatever they want around the Sea Minor, and they also do so with the complicity of a regional government that has been looking elsewhere for years. An complicity that comes to such an extent that it has had to be the TSJ itself that orders the government of López Mirassancionar to these companies for their environmental responsibility, after a year of inaction by the autonomous leaders. Mrs Sabanes, as is the case, we do not know whether a technical office will solve the problem of the Mar Menor or rather a new module is needed in Sangonera prison to bring in so many business and political leaders who have approved the ecocide of the Mar Menor. [[Applauds]] Meanwhile, our gap already has nothing more and nothing less than seven monitoring committees: the scientific advisory committee, the inter-administrative coordination forum, its technical committee, the regional government's interdepartmental committee, a gas-fired social participation committee, a monitoring committee and a Mar Menor Observatory. We sincerely hope that this technical office, as you propose, will be good and able to carry out work monitoring between different administrations. In order for this to be the case, UN We are clear that we need this office to be under the supervision of the civil society itself, our neighbours and our neighbours, and there is no better way for this than to locate this office in the vicinity of the Mar Menor, it makes no sense to put it in Murcia, forty kilometers from the Mar Menor. Because, as the success of the ILP - and I conclude, Mr President - demonstrates, in the Murcia Region there is a people who have risen up to save the Minor Sea and have to rely on them, you have to count on their participation for all the solutions that are implemented. That is why I ask you to consider our amendment to point 3. Otherwise, I hope it will be approved and very successful. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u169	Thank you. Mr Gestoso de Miguel has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u170	Good afternoon. This motion is the result of an amendment to the budgets within the so-called Framework for Priority Actions for the Recovery of the Sea Minor. With it they intend, first, to create a technical office for the conservation of this enclave with millionaire endowment and that they say it will be composed in principle by two officials and public enterprises, but later on they already speak of contracted personnel, that I imagine it will be composed of their usual associates, and it will be another agency of placement of plugs and another unusable chiringuito more than will fix only the pocket of its graceful components. They speak of subjecting their operation to the totalitarian ILP of the Mar Menor that we will take to the courts, because it is an attack on the Constitution and the freedom and only aims to carry out a communist experiment with which to abolish freedom in that part of Spain by means of a chiringuito dominated by the extreme left and by characters and associations that do not present themselves to the elections to govern the legal personality of the Mar Menor and, by the way, its municipalities, apart from the Government, the administrations and the popular vote, abolishing private property, because they intend to make them houses of the beach an administrative concession and freedom of enterprise, consecrating the disparate that ecosystems and animals are on equal rights with man, who ceases to be the protagonist of the laws, which are humanized. Human life is devalued, relativized as in all its laws. [[Applauds]] This is the emergency they're talking about. This chiringuito will study in 2023 the deadlines for the implementation, such as the framework of priority actions of the Government, which are so high priorities that they need a chiringuito to see if they have begun two years after announcing them with great propaganda. And finally, if you finish the previous bicoca, your plug-in will continue to operate to spread what they call the Mar Menor brand. But the proof that you've never stepped on the Lesser Sea is when you end up saying that your goal is to close the artificially created gorges to avoid what you call sweetening. Given the chiringuito and its intention to end the gorges, I'm going to give the keys to what the climate emergency is, or I don't know what they call it, the Sea Minor. Of the 630 cubic metres of the Sea Minor, they are lost by evaporation and filtration every year 220 cubic metres and, only by the gorges, 190 cubic metres enter. If we do the nonsense they say, it'll dry out in less than four years. That's a climate emergency, but it's getting them out of the government as soon as possible, too. [[Applauds]] With the closure of the gorges, which are the canals linking the Mediterranean with the Lesser Sea - which you opened and regenerated and which today you have closed, and whose key has swallowed the minister - you intend to artificially create an environmental hecatombe, turning the Lesser Sea into a sunbathing with its green waters for lack of circulation. That minister who never comes to the things of the Mar Menor, being secretary of state with the government of Zapatero, dredged in 2011 the golad Marchamalo with the joy of the director general of Sustainability and secretary general of the Communist Party in Murcia, Pedro Antonio Ríos, who boasted of the positive that it was for the Mar Menor to have cleaned the throat and reused its 22,000 cubic meters of sand in regenerating the beaches. [[shows a photograph in each hand]] That's how you spend it coherently. [[Applauds]] Secondly, with the closure of the gorges and the artificially created hecatombe with elabonan, never better said, the criminalization of Murcian agriculture. They blame farmers for their negligence in managing to dismantle their farms and create a subsidized economy of captive voting in the area because they no longer give up. Thirdly, they intend to eradicate this agriculture from the Cartagena countryside by abolishing the transfer of the Tagus by the way of the facts, since it would no longer be necessary to have no fields to water. The problem is that the People's Party remains its counterpart. Therefore, in just one year we will rule in Murcia and Spain; we will abolish its liberticid laws and close its chiringuitos; we will open the gorges, as in the sixties; we will make a perimeter filtration ditch; we will impose separational sanitation; we will eliminate the brine; and we will divert the ramblas to the Mediterranean. Because there's only VOX left and more Spaniards know it every day. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u171	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u172	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, again, in the Congress of Deputies, we are discussing an initiative for the Minor Sea, which demonstrates and confirms that the recovery of this salty lagoon is indeed a matter of state. In the People's Party we have been presenting for over two years all kinds of initiatives for the creation of a figure that coordinates the necessary actions of each of the administrations concerned and of the Government itself. In May 2020, the Government of the Murcia Region offered the Ministry the signing of a cooperation protocol to coordinate the recovery of the Mar Menor. The proposal included the creation of a High Commissioner for the Sea Minor to enable local governments, the Regional Administration and the State Administration to work in a coordinated manner for the governance of the Sea Minor, as has been done in other cases, such as the Lorca earthquake or in other situations that have been treated as State affairs. In October 2020 we registered an equal non-legislative proposal to create a Commissioner for the Sea Minor who, after two years and still in force in that commission, remains undisputed. And that is that there is no one right now who coordinates the ministries that have the powers concerning the recovery of the Minor Sea, which, by the way, are many in this Government. And in February 2021, in the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal on actions for the recovery and protection of the Mar Menor, we again tabled an amendment to set up an inter-administrative commission to take measures to reverse the degradation of the Mar Menor. What was the result? Again, the PSOE rejected our amendment to create this figure. Today comes More Country to ask what we have been asking for for two years by both the Murcia Regional Government and the People's Group, both in Congress and in the Senate, but with a different format calling it the Technical Office of the Sea Minor. Besides, it does it for a very simple reason and that's why we're here today. Because after the government accepted an amendment to the general state budgets of EUR 1 million to create this technical office, it turns out that we are going to go to the end of the summer, we are not going to go to the end of the year and here nothing at all. And that which the Mar Menor cannot wait any longer for this Government to assume its responsibilities instead of being running around without doing anything. If not, look at and read the ministry's latest progress report on the actions of the Minor Sea in which all are meetings, are data, are papers, are projects, but where are the works? Where are the shovels? Where are the excavators at the Sea Minor? I'm telling you, there's nothing like that there. You come here, ladies and gentlemen of More Country, so that we all give in this rostrum a squeeze to the government to comply with what you promised them. That is why in the text of his motion they say: At the beginning of this June the ministry announced the launch of the office. So, if at the beginning of this June the ministry has already announced that it will set up the office, what are we discussing here today? What are we discussing? It'll be settled. If the minister has said so, it will be resolved. The same thing we are discussing is that you do not trust the government. Look, there we absolutely agree. By the way, in last week's inquiry you said, Mrs Sabanes, that the role of the Government of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia was deplorable and that of the Government improved. How is it not going to be better if you haven't done anything yet? It's got a lot to improve on. The capacity for improvement of this Government is now infinite. Not even, look, they've been able to set up a technical office in seven months. The amendment we have tabled is in line with what we have been demanding for years: to create the figure of the High Commissioner for the Recovery of the Small Sea and, in addition, to establish a protocol for coordination between administrations. So we could avoid something like what's happening right now. The pumping system of the Albujon branch, which is the one that drags nutrients to the Minor Sea, has stopped working. This is the responsibility of the Government and we cannot do anything about it. Therefore, if there was an interministerial commission, as we intended, this would be resolved. Just as the summer begins, we are faced with the paralysis of that work. In conclusion - and I conclude, President - today we propose a figure that the People's Parliamentary Group had asked for in several initiatives and that the PSOE has never accepted and we will see what decision it makes now with the motion that you put forward because, in the end, it is a body with the same objectives and the same actions that we presented and that you rejected. Today, therefore, we are going to see the real interest of this Government in the Mar Menor Sea when the same proposal gives effect to a group other than the Group of the European People's Party. It is essential that technical criteria prevail over politicians. This, unfortunately, is something that the Government has not yet understood. And the most serious thing is that he's doing it at the expense of the Mar Menor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u173	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u174	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The situation of the Mar Menor is dramatic. It's very hard to see how he's losing vitality, how he's degrading himself to forced marches. It hurts the socialists to see how Europe's largest salt lagoon has become the biggest environmental catastrophe in our country. And, Mr. Pedreño, how dare you compare the crisis, the Ecocide of the Sea Minor with the Lorca earthquake? The situation of the Mar Menor is a catastrophe as a result of a model of management by the People's Party, of a model that has failed, of a model that has been based on disregard for the environment, health, nature and also on contempt for agriculture, fisheries, livestock and tourism, fundamental sectors in our land, in the Region of Murcia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have been ruling in the Murcia Region since 1995 and the lagoon is much worse now than then. They have all the exclusive powers in the area of spatial planning on the basis of Article 10 of the Statute of Autonomy, they have all the powers to act and they have had thirty years, almost three decades, to do so, but unfortunately you, after almost three decades of government, have done nothing for the Mar Menor either for its protection or for its recovery. [[Applauds]] His Government, the Government of the People's Party in the Murcia Region, would go back to history as the Government that had taken over the Mar Menor. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in time for you to stop being part of the problem and become part of the solution. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the inaction of the Autonomous Government of the Region of Murcia, the Government of Spain has had no choice but to act. It has therefore developed and launched a framework of priority actions for the recovery of the Mar Menor; a road map, ladies and gentlemen, with EUR 484 million to implement real measures up to 2026. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists and the Government of Spain, we have a clear idea of what to do and what the Mar Menor needs. For us it is a priority that is part of our Murcia Region project and also part of our country project. Therefore, Mrs Sabanes, we support this initiative; we support the launch of this technical office for the recovery of the Mar Menor, which will be opened in the next few days, with the aim of promoting, managing and also dissipating the actions implemented by the Government of Spain. We support this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, because we have promised to do so. We are a parliamentary group and a government of our word and the incorporation of the amendment of your parliamentary group into the general budgets for this year was a compromise. We also understand that this technical office, beyond being a building, is an office that represents a great opportunity for the Government of Spain to count on and share with society the measures it has put in place for the recovery of the Sea Minor. I would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to reiterate our support for the ILP of the Mar Menor. I am convinced that very soon, very soon, the paper that will be working on this ILP will be launched and its final approval will take place. [[The lady]] Your Honor, we know it's going to be hard to recover the Sea Minor. For this reason, we Socialists consider it essential that citizens' dialogue, agreement and participation, of all public administrations, of all political forces and, of course, of the scientific community as well. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, it pains us so much to see the barbarities that have been made in the region of Murcia, that, no matter how much it costs us, no one is going to steal from us the illusion of working tirelessly to recover that unique jewel, that wonder of nature that is our Minor Sea. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs Sabanes, I recently had the opportunity to say in this rostrum that the Mar Menor died and, unfortunately, the Mar Menor continues to die. When I heard your question to the Government a week ago, I have to tell you that we listened to things that we liked, because you were talking about comprehensive measures, you were talking about a battery of issues that needed to be carried out to recover the Minor Sea lagoon. I must tell you, and I do so with all appreciation, I believe that your motion has been cut short, it has not been all we expected it to be from that inquiry. Moreover, as we are already aware of the transaction, we believe that in the end the interest of taking forward this initiative has been made that we focus on a very specific aspect, in that of the office, which I understand is an initiative of yours - at the time it was a budgetary initiative to get an economic start for this office - but it is not all that the MarMinor needs. It is one more measure and, therefore, we are going to support it and we are going to vote for it, but we understand that a much more global view needs to be made. In the end, what is here is a genuine reel between the administrations, which do not agree on how to deal with this problem and on what measures to put in place. There is a plan, there are initiatives, we have adopted pronouncements of this Congress, there have been pronouncements of the Murcia Regional Assembly, but the thing is not moving forward; unfortunately, it is not going to be resolved with an office. The proof that this is a cambalache is, simply, as we knew fifteen days ago, because the judgment of the Murcia High Court of Justice annuls, nothing less, than the order of the Council of Water, Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Environment and Murcian Emergencies of September 2020 authorizing the fateful converts of the Safe Hydrographic Confederation. With this all is said, Mrs. Sabanes. The regional administration authorizes the central administration, in this case, through an agency attached to the Ministry for Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, the Safe Hydrographic Confederation, to make accidental discharges. And, of course, the TSJ took his hands to his head saying: but, let's see, how can accidental discharges be authorized? Lofortuito is not authorized, it is fortuitous; it is a veritable aberration. But this shows the interest of the central and autonomous administrations in this matter: many words, but they do not put in place measures. And VOX wants to open gorges and Unitas Podemos wants to open Sangonera prison, but measures, none, not one. At least we at the time put the People's Party and the Socialist Party to talk so that they could really agree, and we did so to move forward with Law 3/2020, on Recovery and Protection of the Minor Sea, which took very little to deal with. In August, we too presented a non-legislative proposal in which we discussed the need for action to be taken to find solutions to eutrophication problems. In the 2020 budgets we also tabled an amendment to establish a programme of actions in hydraulic infrastructure to avoid flooding in coastal municipalities, because it is one of the issues that is also causing serious damage to the lagoon; some amendments that, I have to remind you, were vetoed by the Socialist Group and Podemos. Since it cannot be otherwise, we have also supported and collaborated with that platform for the recognition of the legal personality of the Mar Menor lagoon; moreover, we are working to improve it now in the process of amendments working on the development of the right of restoration, establishing obligations for the different administrations that become effective measures or, even, talking about a committee of experts that unify these three figures that they propose in that ILP because we believe that what has to be, above all, agile and effective, and we really believe in that ILP and we want it to be in the end a bill that can come forward in this Congress. Above all, it is also a question of making infrastructure in the field of hydraulics, something we have asked for. Minister Ribera, last September, said she was not in favour of increasing investment in hydraulic works. We'll ask again. We're confident that the third is the one that's won. By voting in favour of your proposal - and I am telling you this - although we believe that the office is not the essential thing, it must help to make this really a solution, we hope to be able to save the Sea Minor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, ON THE CRISIS OF THE SPANISH EXTERNAL POLICY. [[File number 173/000161]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u178	We continue with the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the crisis of Spanish foreign policy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u179	Madam President. We are holding a historic NATO summit in Madrid, only comparable to that held in 1991 to achieve a peace agreement in the Middle East. Then the bipolar world collapsed; today the war has returned to Europe. Spain has an international position that obliges us to act responsibly. We need a united, serious, reliable government at the height of the historic moment. Unfortunately, we do not have that Government. The deep division within it and the incommunicadoness between the internal factions causes stupor abroad and weakens us. The ministers heard from the press about the president's actions. The Foreign Minister himself declared in this House that he was aware of the contents of the letter that Sánchez sent to the king of Morocco. The opposition has also chosen to renounce any kind of political dialogue. That is why it is surprising and unbelief that Sánchez today called for the unity of the leaders who are in Madrid when he neither has it in his Government nor practices it with the opposition. This is why my group considers that, in the absence of government, Congress is more necessary than ever and that the Spanish foreign policy road map is adopted here. First, showing support for the NATO summit, a summit which was led by a PP government and which has been organised by a part of the current government, with the loyalty of two administrations governed by the PP, such as the city council and the community. My group believes that it is very positive that our partners know that, despite the cacophony of the government with secretaries of state and ministers protesting against NATO, Spain's commitment to the Alliance is irrevocable, and thus the vast majority of the Spaniards lose. With regard to the strategic concept, we regret the Government's incommunicado with the House. None of the ministers concerned have attended, nothing has been explained to anyone, and yet here you have the PP's shoulder to include Ceuta and Melilla under the NATO umbrella. In addition, this 360-degree revision is necessary and the look committed to the south at a time when the Sahel is destabilizing by the advance of jihadism. In this sense, it is fair to support the military missions of NATO in which Spanish troops participate - the tension in the east is increasing and the Spanish contingent in this region has not stopped growing - and it is good that they know that they are supported by their representatives. NATO is also an alliance that nations call to its door. We are glad that the pressure has worked and last night Turkey has finally stopped blocking the entry of Sweden and Finland, but democracy must always be imposed on authoritarianism. Greece also deserves support in its territorial integrity now that it is again threatened. I would like to believe, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that they are not indifferent to the threats to this nation. Together with NATO, more Europe of defence is essential. Since the 1950s it had to be one of the pillars of the Union, and today it is more urgent than ever for the Union to have a military muscle complementary to NATO and of which it is today. In this respect, Spain needs to increase its military capabilities and reach 2% of the GDP of defence investment. For my group, the correction made by Pedro Sánchez is welcome, since in the past he was even willing to eliminate the Ministry of Defence. My party has intended to agree everything within a state pact, to see if one day the Government is worthy, even if it is to send an acknowledgement of receipt. They may lose the elections, as has happened in Andalusia, but they should not lose their education and courtesy. In the face of the invasion in Ukraine, the Spaniards know very well who they are with and who they should help, because war is not at the gates of Europe, war is in Europe, in a country that has been invaded for wanting to be a member of the Union. The PP has wanted the government to lead Ukraine as a candidate country in Europe. There is a new opportunity for Spain not to be in the queue and lead the entrance of Ukraine. Times have changed and procedures must also do so. In this sense, it is opportune to recognize the role of Volodimir Zelenski - a few months ago we had the opportunity to listen to him - at a time when we run the risk of being tired of horror making us forget it. It is therefore good to recognize the role of those few to whom we so much owe. It is also urgent to continue to increase military support to Ukraine. We are deeply pleased that, at this NATO summit, the relationship with the United States has moved from a brief thirty-second walk to the desire to redouble military and political commitment to a nation that has been a security shield in Europe since 1940. It is just to acknowledge this, and we are also pleased that the adopted declaration talks about working together in Latin America. It is good that you have rectified, leaving in the corner of history the anti-American rancio, and returned to Atlantis. The PP will not fail the Spaniards in everything that is strengthening the relationship with the United States. Their partners do not say the same because to appear with Biden they had to hide under the carpets of the Palace of La Moncloa the banners and the principles of the ministers of Podemos. That is the drama of his Government, which a half rejects and is ashamed of the press conference and the communiqué he met yesterday. Spain needs a better government, committed to what Congress decides and approves. Moreover, failure to take into account the sovereign decisions of the House has had unfortunate consequences. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the change in the relationship with the Sahara dispute is not well resolved. The relationship with Morocco is not well resolved, as was seen in the dramatic events of last Friday in the Melilla fence, and the relationship with Algeria is not well resolved. Sanchez's bandage hasn't solved anything and it's complicated everything. Correct. In this motion they have an opportunity to align themselves with the majority feeling of the Spanish people and, from there, begin to weave a relationship of trust with Morocco and Algeria. That is why the People's Party is going to ask that the vote be split by points. In short, having a foreign policy worthy of the fourth euro economy and a five-hundred-year-old nation also requires an improvement in the material means available to staff. It is regrettable that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs implemented zero euros of European funds in 2021 and 2022. Mr Albares's administrative management is as overrun and chaotic as his political management. I conclude by reiterating that the President of my party has put on the table a state pact on security and defence. It would be good if they called us to approach him. With their partners they know that to strengthen the state they cannot speak, they only count on them to weaken it and centrifuge it. The ball is on your roof. The Spanish do not deserve a weak and divided Government. What is at stake is our rights and our freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. In defence of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Asarta Cuevas has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u181	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Spanish foreign policy is in a deep crisis because of its improvisation and lack of direction. In his appearance last week, the minister told us of successes during his term, but he was left with pride and let go of humility to recognize the errors of silence that have been made during this time. A paradigmatic example of this improvised policy at the service of Sánchez is found in the letter sent to Mohamed VI, published by the Royal Moroccan House on 14 March, which modified Spain's historical position on the Sahara, avoiding, as you know, any prior consultation with the king and his own government, and what is more serious, avoiding any parliamentary debate, which is not acceptable. In addition, it has given rise to all kinds of speculation related to the Pegasus affair and the theft of information from Sánchez's phone, because no one in this House, no one, finds any other reason for this change, unless it is a personal decision of the president, which is equally unacceptable. [[Applauds]] Foreign policy is a policy of state and therefore of consensus with the rest of the political forces, especially with the main opposition parties, so Sánchez cannot and should not act as head of state because he simply is not. If humans are making mistakes, fools are persevering in error, and this is what the president did on April 7, three weeks later, when he travelled to Morocco and signed a joint statement in which, moreover, there is not a single word about the Spanishness of Ceuta and Melilla and of the Spanish sovereignty islands and pawns to the north of Africa. This is where the weakness of this social-communist government is clearly perceived once again. On the contrary, the Moroccan Government persists in its aggressive assertive policy with its claims of sovereignty over these territories. Morocco qualifies Ceuta and Melilla as usurped cities, which it considers, together with the islands and peñones, the last colonies in Africa. The Kingdom of Morocco has its permanent interests clear, while our Government is banditling in its relations with that kingdom and agreeing that it is this country that marks the road map according to its interests and in whatever way it may be. Ladies and gentlemen, the Maghreb has tried to dress one saint by undressing another, a lack of political touch that has led us to have Algeria suspend the Treaty of Friendship and review its trade relations with Spain, especially those related to the supply of gas, something which is not a reality at this time of energy crisis. For lack of time, today I will not talk about Europe, in which we are no longer among the best; nor about Ibero-America, where we have lost influence. The motion that the PP brings us today is like a letter to the Magi, with a fifteen-point petitum, that we will vote one by one, ten of them being more defense than outside, although some of them deserve a comment. Point 2 calls for NATO's new strategic concept to provide for the protection of the entire national territory, with particular attention to non- peninsular territories. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, welcome to the postulates of VOX, although we would have liked to request the amendment of Article 6 of the Treaty to explicitly include the cities of Ceuta and Melilla and the islands and pawns of Spanish sovereignty to the North of Africa, something proposed by our group repeatedly, and we therefore tabled an amendment to this point, as well as three other amendments to points 6 and 7, concerning the maintenance of materials and defence budgets. [[applause]] Point 14 refers to the threats to freedom emanating from totalitarian communist-cut movements in Hispano America, to which we are also submitting another amendment, and we hope that all of them will be taken into account by the People's Group. Point 13 calls for the resumption of the political, economic and commercial relationship with Algeria, thereby restoring the position of active neutrality with regard to the future of Sahara prior to the famous letter of 14 March. This point seems of vital importance to us, since not only does Morocco apply the strategy of immigration blackmail to us, but Algeria, given the results of our new relationship with Morocco, has done the same by allowing the departure of more than one hundred irregular and illegal immigrants who arrived to the Balearic Islands on board six pateras last June 8th, it seems that as a warning and retaliation for the declarations made by Sánchez in this Congress on the same day, on June 8th, when he reaffirmed himself in his bandage with regard to the Sahara. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with a reflection that has to make us think seriously. More than 2,000 immigrants attempted the assault on the Melilla fence last Friday, with a terrible record of dozens of dead and hundreds of wounded, among them, our civilian guards. Scary images of an invasion that, according to Sánchez, has been well resolved by Morocco. What a lack of empathy for the autocrat! These misfortunes and the attack on our security and sovereignty are the consequences of the migration policies of this government...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u182	Mr. Asarta, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u183	I'm done. ... in no humanitarian or human rights protection, and which also generate a so-called effect and feed the mafias of human trafficking, something you are already aware of. In the end, they'll agree with VOX. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u184	Thank you, Mr. Asarta. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u185	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is evidence that the world we have known so far has been changing at a gradual pace with an abysmal speed. After Russia's aggression against Ukraine four months ago, the world we knew has new keys that make us approach reality from another point of view and with other solutions. There is evidence that we live at a complex and sensitive time when any decision that is made has an impact. Yesterday we saw how the request by Finland and Sweden for entry into the NATO alliance had a negative impact in this case on the Kurdish people, where we see how the YPGs, those that faced the jihadist hordes in the Islamic State, are now going to be pursued on the basis of that agreement. We also see how Turkey, which applies what was also applied by the People's Party at all is ETA, applies the whole thing to the Kurds, and we see how the Kurds are going to be persecuted in countries where they were not so far by that agreement. There are derivatives that have consequences on other matters, and the first thought that should lead us to is how we can be in an alliance with a country like Turkey, a country that is burning the Middle East, the Mediterranean, the Caucasus, as we have seen in Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh, and which now has direct repercussions on EU Member States. With regard to the summit that is being held these days in Madrid, what do you want me to say? From Euskal Herria Bildu we are clear: we are not pro-NATO, as Basque society has pointed out; for many years we have a position against this alliance, because it is not the solution at all. Moreover, we believe that, from a European point of view, from the primacy of the interests of Europe's challenges, we had to make decisions of our own and not be appendices and depend on other states and other interests. You said it was the most important summit after the 1991 summit on peace in the Middle East, for look at how they are in the Middle East thirty years later. By the way, the Socialist Party would like to celebrate something in commemoration of that summit, at thirty years old it has been forgotten and in 2021 it has not held any commemorative act. There is an interview with Mr Albares saying that this summit is the most important after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Well, I think it's been a while too. It is one thing to have ambition and another to exceed the calculations. But look, in the face of the situation in Ukraine what worries us is that after four months of military aggression, after four months of war, the risk of enquisition is there, but more than the risk of enquisition is the risk of military escalation and also of nuclear risk, why not say so. And in the face of that risk, we believe that on the international stage States have not been able to live up to it. The priority at this time should be to seek ways out of peace. That's the priority. I already know that some have in mind the classic if vis pacem, for bellum. But no, that happened two thousand years ago, right now if you want peace, you have to invest in peace. The arms race, the military investment will not lead us to a scenario of peace; it will at least lead us to a cold war of more decades. That is why we say that the priority must be precisely to seek solutions to peace. Because if not, those derivatives that we are talking about will have such a humanitarian impact - that we are already seeing with the refugees in Europe - as well as on energy, because for many patches that will be put on they will have a derivative in the prices of all products and in the domestic economy of all citizens of the state and of Europe. Let us therefore once again give priority to the way out of peace. We are not naive, no; we know what the situation is, but we insist once again that peace must prevail. And in this 15-point omnibus proposal, in those dealing with NATO, we will vote against it; in others which have to do with the European perspective, as we see it as insufficient - we are not against it, but we do not see how you are collecting it - we will abstain; and we will vote in favour of it, which says that the Government has to change its position - I conclude, Madam President - on Western Sahara, but not because Algeria is asked to do so, not, but because this House has been asked to do so and because the Saharawis are asked to do so. Simply put, I end by saying again that the priority must be to seek ways for peace in the conflict in Ukraine. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[Denial]] We moved on to the next group. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u187	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, on your motion I would like to tell you something about the form before I go into the background. Look, I think that a reform of the Rules of Procedure would have to be made if motions like this were to be banned. Because this coming here every week to vote fifteen points, where you mix from NATO's new strategic concept, jihadism, defense financing, Sweden and Finland, Zelenski, Ukraine, United States, Algeria, Latin America, labor personnel... Hey, do you really want to make us suffer this every week? It is that there is no week where you do not have to vote on your motions or GNP with fifteen or twenty points. This is a waste of time; it is a waste of time for this House and it is a lack of respect for the citizens. This is what you can't do. I hope that with the changes that you are making in the direction of your group do not repeat these things again, because it is really very unpleasant to have to be debating about a lot of things that have nothing to do with and wasting time on this; at last. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is one of the great nations of Europe, although it seems to someone that it is not, I believe it is. And besides, I think Spain should have the vocation to play a much bigger role still, a role at a global level, where it has to play it. Among other things, because our ties with Latin America and Africa - especially North Africa - are clear and clear. I believe that these are precisely two regions in which this Government is making the failures of its foreign policy more evident. I believe that the current government stumbled upon Latin America at the time when it brought Podemos into government, and that is what they understand. In addition, you have made Secretary of State a FARC lawyer - one of Colombia's terrorist organizations -; Secretary of State who, in addition, last Sunday manifested himself in the streets of Madrid crying against the Atlantic Alliance, against our partners, our allies; an organization whose new strategic concept will be renewed precisely in our country. Therefore, we in Citizens have called for the reprobation of the Secretary of State for the 2030 Agenda, for acting not as Secretary of State of Spain, but rather as Secretary of State for Mr Putin's agenda. And we have also asked for the appearance of its head, Minister Ione Belarra, to explain why in his ministry they allow such actions contrary to our international alliances and to the interests of Spain. With regard to North Africa, the truth is that what has been experienced in recent months is another stumbling block. In addition, the decision of the President of the Government has turned his back on this Parliament, on the citizens and not on the opinion of Algeria, a strategic partner for our country, as you know, in the energy sector. Moreover, in a context in which the price of light is absolutely fired. For what, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the Socialist bench, what's all this for? Was the counterpart to boost relations with Algiers in order to return to migration cooperation with Morocco? I believe that we have lived, in addition to a few years ago, a tremendous humanitarian drama, and that means that neither in this new stage that you have inaugurated, or that the President of the Government has inaugurated, is this working. Therefore, in view of this situation, what is the alternative? Because the alternative, gentlemen of the People's Party, is not yours. You have made similar mistakes in foreign policy. The governments of Mariano Rajoy were an example of the lack of ambition of the conservatives, with a Spain that was totally absent in decision-making in the European Union, and with a warm and inadequate relationship with the countries of Latin America, including in Latin America countries and governments committed to those relations with Spain. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, also did not fulfil the commitment to allocate 2% of GDP to security and defence. Mr Rajoy's government crossed hands when the independenceists spread lies and falsehoods about our democracy abroad and thus eroded our capacity to act in the world and Spain's image as a consolidated democracy. This situation is therefore a shared responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the People's Party. And it is clear that it is not you, lords of the People's Party, who can offer any alternative. I believe that in order to offer an alternative there is another space, a liberal space which has clearly presented these priorities and which exposes them here without the artifices of this motion: an active commitment to the European Union, revitalizing Atlantic choice, regaining confidence with our strategic partners, boosting Spain's presence in Asia-Pacific...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u188	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u189	... and use Spanish cooperation as a mechanism to open up new horizons. I'm done, President. That is the way, ladies and gentlemen, and not these motions that only waste Members' time. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u190	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u191	Thank you, Madam President. The People's Party criticizes PSOE's foreign policy when it is in opposition, but they actually share the same objectives. It is true that we now see what the turn of Pedro Sánchez over the Sahara consisted of, recognizing de facto Morocco's annexation and abandoning the Saharawi people to their fate, turning their backs on international legality and UN resolutions. It was, among other things - we suppose there will be more - to outsource repression, violence and death in the fences with Morocco. The People's Party during the Rajoy government reinforced the fences, placed concertinas and shot people swimming, causing the death of fifteen human beings in ElTarajal in 2014. It seems that there is agreement between PP and PSOE in the objectives, as I said. That said, Pedro Sánchez thought it was better to negotiate with the Moroccan dictatorship to outsource repression and violence against people who only seek a better opportunity, a better life, fleeing from serious political and socio-economic situations, which are a consequence of neo-colonial policies in Africa and which count on the rejection of the BNG. About NATO...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u192	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u193	I'm done, Madam President. About NATO, once again, no, absolutely no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u194	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the Parliamentary Group itself, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u195	Thank you very much, President. Fifteen points of this PP motion, in some we can even agree, but in the end cotton does not cheat, the PP is the PP. Point 7: Ensure adequate funding for national defence, reaching 2% of GDP by 2030. That is, more budget; that is, more resources and, meanwhile, with the mantra of the tax drop. This reminds me of the miracle of Jesus Christ, the miracle of bread and fish, because you may increase military spending, if you want to lower taxes, if you are not Jesus Christ, you have to cut. And where do we cut, closing primary care centers, how can Mrs. Ayuso do very well? Dismissing toilets? Or saying, "Who can be saved?" Second point that does not fit me: to promote democracy in Latin America, the separation of powers... I say that in Latin America, Saudi Arabia, the Arab Emirates, Qatar, China, Morocco... Why always in Latin America? Look, there are places, and some, very close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u197	Good day. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are dealing with a number of issues in this motion. I will comment, for a matter of time, only one of them. We agree on Atlantis; when in Catalonia we are an independent state, we will advocate for Catalonia to be a member. In relation to what you say about the rise of the populisms of Latin America and which was now being commented upon, which obliges us to push for a firm commitment in the defense of democracy, the separation of powers, the rule of law, etc., the question we have is whether it is going to be Spain that drives this defense, whether Spain is able to do so. Because Spain does not preach much with the example, for example, by not complying with the resolutions of the PACE or by trying not to vote a report, ospitating politicians and journalists. We are also curious that they ask for the digitization of consulates and then are against allowing the electronic voting of residents abroad. We think two modernities are a little counterbalanced. They also urge you to condemn Turkey's blockade of the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO - which is no longer necessary, has been unblocked - but why not also urge you to stop selling weapons to Turkey? This also seems a bit hypocritical to us. And with regard to the new era of relations between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Morocco, which is also part of Spanish foreign policy, Friday's images on the fence clearly show that foreign policy does not work that a foreign policy does not respect human rights, depending on the origin or conflict from which it comes. Paraphrased the President of the Government in relation to the events of the morning of last day 24, when he said: 'Mission accomplished successfully, in coordination with Morocco'; when I come down from this atrium, I can say: mission accomplished, because I have finished my speech. What I don't know if I can say is whether it's a successful mission, because I don't know if you've heard me or not. When the president said, 'Mission accomplished successfully', what did he mean?, what was the mission and what was the success?, that people had been forcibly prevented from entering?, that they had violated their rights?, that, despite having died, wounded, and overcrowded people in a yard, they had not managed to jump the fence?, did the hot returns made? Ladies and gentlemen, what has been the successful mission? Is this an example of the new era between Morocco and Spain? A new era in which Spain abandons United Nations resolutions on the right of self-determination of the Sahara, abandons international law. Ladies and gentlemen of the governing parties, do you all share these statements of your president? If you don't share them, why don't you express it? If that is the case, if they do not share them, I believe that there is still what we call abri in Catalan, a minimum of hope for achieving a policy that respects human rights and international law. We are glad that we are voting on separate points, because we will be able to vote on some of the points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. Mr Alvarez i García has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. I would like to begin by publicly denouncing the veto on the part of the Bureau of this House on the oral question that the Republican Group had put and should have explained this morning at the monitoring session, which was just about the whole issue of the NATO summit. It seems to us very serious that there has been this veto, the truth, it really seems to us a censorship of the unforgivable freedom of expression and of course we cannot allow it and we will ask for the relevant explanations because this cannot happen, because it is a lack of respect, not only to our Parliamentary Group, but also to all the groups in this House. [[Applauds]] Focusing on the motion of the People's Group, it brings back a motion quite similar to that which it brought a few weeks ago, this time focusing, only and above all, on the defence to the extreme of the Atlantic Alliance and also increasing the defence budget. I don't know if you're aware when you ask for that increased defense that you have to get him out of somewhere. I don't know if they really want to get him out of some ministry, if they want to get him out of health care, if they want to get him out of the house. Well, the truth is that many times you don't hide that you prioritize the flag to the working class. This country has a serious problem, especially when a criminal organisation summit is currently taking place. And I don't say that, but half of the government in this country says that. We'll do it, we'll do it. Look, I'm gonna give you some data. According to a report by the Watson Institute, which reports to Brown University, more than 350,000 civilian murders took place in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya by NATO bombings and the United States; I repeat: more than 350 000 civilian murders in what we have been doing for the century. I don't see a lot of people surprised with their hands in their heads or anything. By the way, what example did Spain and NATO set by leaving to their fate in Afghanistan too many people who collaborated in the occupation, who are activists for civil rights and freedoms, who are professionals such as, for example, teachers, or simply women and girls who must now live in a regime of terror in which they are persecuted and alibied? The shame of the free world, the truth. [[Applauds]] More information: 38 million displaced because of NATO attacks, but here what is sometimes important is to talk only about Putin; in fact, there are some around here who still think that Putin is communist and such... Well, let's see if he reads a little bit and his ideas are cleared up a little bit, because the truth is that hypocrisy is here in its purest state. It seems a lie that the West, so proud that it claims to be of itself, is the puppet of the United States. All that comes out of the White House are orders for Europe, and I tell you that substituting the autonomy and decisions of a territory to Mr Biden's wishes in this case is not exactly the best way to act but, well, time to time. By the way, I don't know if you know that at the time Catalonia has already voted against being in NATO. They don't mention that either, and they seem to forget about it. Let's talk more about foreign policy. I told you in the previous motion. We talked about Yemen before. Where do the bombs that bomb Yemen come from? They are just Spanish bombs that bomb hospitals, mosques, schools, etc. Or we can talk about Israel's support for the genocide suffered by the people of Palestine. By the way, the Catalonian Parliament approved calling apartheid what Israel is doing right now with Palestine. I am very proud that my Parliament is the first in Europe to have approved it. More about foreign policy. To stand in favour of Morocco and to leave the Sahara lying. By the way, this weekend we've seen what we've seen in Melilla and it's been discussed a lot. What does the Socialist Party do, praise the police? What is to be expected of a government that supports a summit of an organization, as they say, criminal? Of course, justify more than forty crimes against humanity. Finally, I'll give you a piece of advice, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE. If the PP were to do so, foreign policy would focus on sending more pistols to Ukraine and raising the defence budget by 50%, for example. Gentlemen of the PSOE, I tell you that the 'cayetans' of all life are not the example to follow ever. Stop buying the right mantra. I give you that advice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u199	Mr. Alvarez, you have to finish, please. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: You are going to pass into history as the government that saw how people were killed on its borders and stood watching, and not just looking up but congratulating the - some say - good work. Think, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u200	Thank you, Mr. Alvarez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u201	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, as you will understand, joining the arduous belligerent who come to exhibit here today, in the midst of a serious social and energy emergency, would be an act of pyromaniacs themselves. Let us make it clear that what you are proposing here does not guarantee any peace and security to working families and citizens in general, among other reasons, because, from the outset, it would involve devoting millions of euros to enriching the arms business when neither inflation nor unemployment will be solved by sowing Europe with more nuclear warheads or with more warships. After the catastrophic withdrawal of NATO from Afghanistan and Russia's invasion of Ukraine, it is clear that Europe needs a new model of security, but if we have learned from all that, we must at least have two clear things. The first, that this safety model has to be an autonomous model, a European model, not a model subordinated to the United States or to any other power. Secondly, that this model of autonomous security should not serve, not endless escalation, but rather a founding value of Europe and the United Nations: peace as a condition for shared prosperity. I understand that the People's Party - which has already brought us into the Iraq war with Blair and with George Bush - does not see this objective clear, but at least they could hear conservative people, from their own rope, who remember that every day of war there are thousands of civilian victims, with massive exoduses, with economic devastation, mothers crying to their dead child soldiers... We, for example, would have liked to have expected a summit at which it would have been recalled that the main threat to security is not Ukrainian refugees, Syrian refugees or Africans, but that the main threat to security is imperial disputes over energy resources, the concentration of wealth and the inequalities caused by migration. We would have liked a summit at which to explain how to increase military spending, when there are pressing needs and when only France, Germany, Italy and Spain quadruple Russia's military spending, is an absolute nonsense. We would have liked a summit at which it was said that Europe's main challenge is not to deter by generating fear, but to persuade; that is, to be a credible driver of peace and the negotiated resolution of conflicts in Ukraine, Yemen, Palestine or Sahara. But that is not going to happen, because the NATO summit has not been organized to strengthen the cause of peace for which people such as Altiero Spinelli, Petra Kelly or Olof Palme were advocated. This summit has been organised basically to reinforce the strategic andgeo-strategic priorities of the United States, which are not Ukraine, which are not Europe, but are above all to weaken China. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marshall has not come to this summit with a pack of social and green investments under his arm; he has not come with a Green Deal or a New Deal under his arm, he has come to sell us dearly his contaminating shale gas, his transgenic grains and, above all, the weapons of Lockheed Martin and his war industry; and they have come to tell us that more to fight the war is to be done by feeding it. Let's be honest, that can be the project of an irresponsible belligerent like Boris Johnson, it can be the project of the Polish far right, it can be the project of the Latvian far right, but it cannot be the project of a Europe that respects itself, a Europe that wants to be autonomous and that aspires to build a civilizational alternative based on the deepening of democracy, peace and social and environmental justice. [[Applauds]] That other autonomous European project is not only the one that best suits the countries of southern Europe, it is the only one with which we can gain the respect of the rest of the peoples of the world, starting with Africa and Latin America, because what Africa expects of us, ladies and gentlemen, is not that we are going to plunder their resources and then militarize the southern border and shoot those who try to cross it, what Africa expects is a serious commitment, not simply rhetorical, with acodevelopment that allows their children to eat every day and not be pushed to migrate when they are teenagers; because what Latin America expects of us is not, as Felipe VI proposed after receiving Biden on a plane, that we invite them to give vasallage to NATO, what they expect, what former President Lula has told us, what President López Obrador has told us, is that we seek peace and shared prosperity from a respectful relationship between free and equal peoples. That respectful, non-arrogant Ibero-Americanism is also what President Petro has just claimed from Colombia. Do not allow, ladies and gentlemen of the right, the neo-colonial soflamas of the brands of Vargas Llosa to spoil this opportunity, because if that happens I can assure you that Africa and America will rebel. They have already done so with Fernando VII, they have already done so in Cuba and the Philippines supported by Pi i Margall and Unamuno, and it will happen again if we do not understand that there is a new multilateral order emerging, that it is irreversible and that no empire, neither old nor new, will be able to stop. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u202	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Villagrasa Quero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u203	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I would like to start by reminding those people that last Friday they lost their lives on our southern border. We deeply regret the tragedy in Nador and convey our deepest condolences to all their families. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again the PP is bringing back to this House an initiative to attack the interests of Spain. You have come here to talk about a supposed crisis in Spanish foreign policy, but do you know what is the main crisis in our foreign policy? The one about not being able to count on the opposition party. [[Applauds]] Because it is you, Mr. Hispan, today with a very soft tone, who have broken the consensus, because it is you who have used outer politics as a party weapon. And you know what you've got? Do you know what you get out of this attitude? To remove citizens from foreign policy right now, when the Spanish and Spanish have to know that what happens outside their borders impacts directly and has an impact on our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, don't play with the food stuff. The pandemic has already taught us very hard and is again showing us the war in Ukraine. That is why it is very important that our foreign policy is a state policy and, above all, that we do not play electorally with it. Citizenship needs to know that we are doing everything we can to ensure that our external relations, which have such an impact on our economy, on our labour market and on our society, are fluid and satisfactory relations, that we continue to take care of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens and work honestly all our external relations, which are now more necessary than ever. You say that Spain has the weakest position in foreign policy in the whole history of democracy, so weak, ladies and gentlemen, so weak, Mr Hispan, that forty heads of state gathered in Madrid are praising the security and commitment of the country and a united, serious and reliable government. [[Applauds]] Do you know when foreign policy is weak? When it is irrelevant; irrelevant how Spain was perceived throughout Mr. Mariano Rajoy's government. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what happens to you is that Spain has again become a key player in international politics, in European politics, in the Mediterranean and in America. What happens to you is that you were used to understanding foreign policy - as you well know - by putting your feet on the table next to the President of the United States, smoking a cigar and starting illegal wars. [[Applauds]] Do you think that by repeaters you will seek more support with the same initiative? What you have to do is make you work a little longer. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we need a high look. The current government of Spain has not only worked to recover the instrumentalization that you have made of foreign policy, the government of Pedro Sánchez has returned to Spanish cooperation where the last socialist government left it, at the top of international solidarity. This government has held back with responsibility the bad press that you do in the international arena, as when you went to Brussels to boycott the European funds. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you do a lot of work and you don't fool anyone. They do not deceive anyone when they talk about democracies in Latin America and when they talk about the sovereignty of countries, and they demonstrate this by putting a cross to some and questioning the sovereignty of the choice of peoples in others. They brought us here today a totum revolution for the sole purpose of taking advantage of it. We find in his proposal common places, half truths and issues far exceeded by foreign policy a long time ago. But, acknowledge it; acknowledge that the Spanish Government fully assumes its role as a member of NATO and, as such, assumes its responsibilities; that our policy in Latin America is based on strengthening democracies, on solidarity cooperation among peoples and on economic exchange and the protection of our businesses; that our commitment to good-neighbourly relations in the context of the Mediterranean is a priority. And also recognize Spain's leadership in the new architecture of 21st century Europe. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, stop making scares, suggesting crises and failures; acknowledge yourself in the mirror as the source of some of the problems that concern Spanish diplomacy, because it is you yourself that crisis you are talking about. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villagrasa. Mr Hispan, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u205	No, it shall be voted on in its terms by sub-paragraphs.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u206	Perfect, because the motion will thus be voted on. Thank you. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE STRATEGY TO BE TAKEN THE GOVERNMENT SHALL BE CONCERNED WITH ENERGY POLICY IN THE COURT AND MIDDLE-TERM. [[File number 173/000162]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u207	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Group on the strategy to be implemented by the Government with regard to energy policy in the short and medium term. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u208	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The way this government is facing the energy crisis has consisted of a series of patches, a series of self-contradicting bandages. The Government constantly contradicts itself. How many times did the Minister of Finance tell us that it was impossible to lower VAT from electricity to 5%? Finally, they had to do it, as on the other hand I had asked VOX many times. Once again VOX was right, and this government is only right when it listens to the opposition. [[Applauds]] As for the famous 20 cent discount on fuels, it has already been devoured by the dizzying rise in prices; the litre of gasoline was at 1.81 euros on 1 April and is now at 2.14 euros. But VOX is not limited to criticizing these bandages, these erratic patches of the government, because we believe that the shortcomings of this government's energy policy are not only short-term, but structural. It is the very conceptual framework of this energy policy that suffers from serious shortcomings. It is a wrong framework, based on climate obsession and the renunciation of energy sovereignty. [[The Lord]] Therefore, in this motion we do what we do is to present the master lines of which would be the energy alternative of VOX; an alternative based on exactly opposite principles. For example, we bet on energy sovereignty. Our energy dependence at the moment is 74%; we import natural gas annually in the amount of 379 terawatts/hour, 57 million tonnes of oil and 4 million tonnes of coal, for a total price of around EUR 19 billion per year. By the way, governments of both the People's Party and the Socialist Party dismantled, at the time, our coal industry. Other European countries, at the moment, are resorting again and again to open coal plants to deal with the emergency, it is the case of Germany, or also to compensate for the inadequacies of renewable energy, in which, by the way, Germany is a leader. The problem is that the climate change law passed a year ago - and only VOX voted against it - definitely sinks us into energy dependence, especially under its articles 9 and 10, which no longer prohibit exploitation, if any, the investigation of possible hydrocarbon deposits in the Spanish subsoil; it also prohibits uranium mining. [[Applauds]] In history, it had never been seen that a country gave up its own resources, and they were resources that could be very important. A study by the Conseil Superior de Colegios de Ingenieros de Minas has encrypted the probable reserves of natural gas in the Spanish subsoil at 1.3 billion - with be - cubic meters. And a 2013 Gesal report referred to potential oil reserves of 2 billion barrels, a reservation that, yes, would only be accessible through hydraulic fracture technology, that technology that has allowed the United States to achieve energy self-sufficiency. The consultant Deloitte estimated that putting these possible hydrocarbon reserves into operation would create 260 000 jobs and increase Spanish GDP by 4.3%. Therefore, if VOX comes to the government that will do so, it will be to repeal that delusional climate change law that prevents us from taking advantage of our own resources. [[applause]] We will also take Spain out of the Paris Agreements, the European Green Pact and any international agreements that force our economy to join that hysterical accelerated and ruinous decarbonisation process; a process that is going to have - it is already having - an astronomical cost that Spanish companies and families simply cannot afford. And I am not exaggerating, it is the PNIEC itself, our PNIEC, which recognises the need for 240 billion decarbonising investments by 2030, when the European Green Pact talks about the need for 260 billion decarbonising investments per year to achieve the proposed targets of reducing European CO2 emissions by 55% compared to 1990 levels. Speaking of CO2, there is something that very few people know, and it is that the European Union is currently responsible for only 9% of global CO2 emissions, and Spain is responsible for a negligible 0.7%. Europe is going to get poorer and crush its economy. Therefore, if it were to achieve that 55 % reduction, we would be reducing global emissions by only 4 % or 5 %. The planet wouldn't even give up. In other words, all this voluntary impoverishment of Europe will have an impact on global warming of only a few hundredths of a degree; the warming of the planet in 2100, instead of being 1.81 oC, will be 1.79 oC. That's what we're gonna get with our sacrifice. [[Applauds]] By the way, this eventual warming of 1.8 or 2.3 oC in 2100 does not in any case pose an existential threat to humanity, as the followers of the climate-apocalyptic sect proclaim. Warming is more of a problem than humanity has in the 21st century, but to which our descendants will no doubt adapt without greater problems. On the other hand, it is also little known that Europe has already done its homework. European emissions have been falling for twenty-five years. Spanish emissions reached their historical peak in 2005 and since then have been cut by 35 %, no less; European emissions by 22 %. In the same time frame, China's emissions have doubled since 2005 and tripled since the 1990s. Therefore, while Europe takes a shot at its foot and lashes its economy with this useless sacrifice, China sees the path to world economic supremacy expedited. I'm on my way. Other principles of our energy alternative are that Spain insists within the European Union the abolition of the CO2 emission allowance market and, above all, that the useful life of the seven nuclear reactors that we have left be extended and that construction be studied...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u209	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u210	...of new nuclear reactors taking advantage of European reconstruction funds. The Socialist Party already inflicted tremendous damage on the Spanish economy in the 1980s by paralysing the construction of five nuclear reactors that were almost finished...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u211	Mr. Contreras, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u212	... now they have planned the dismantling between 2027 and 2037 of which we have left. Fortunately, we will take them out before power and they will not be able to consummate the disguise. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u213	Thank you. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u214	Thank you, President. I will speak very briefly because we always discuss the same thing after the sitting. The truth is that I have not just understood the question you made to the Vice-President about the strategy for energy policy in the medium and long term, because then you have brought us a motion practically based on that motion which defended energy sovereignty. The truth is that the first point of the explanatory statement is basically the same and, despite the fact that the rest of the following points are different, it is surprising that the smallum of that point is the same as in this motion, because they literally copy all the points in the position of that motion, and now only add two new points more to the taxonomy of nuclear and the modification of the marginalist system, which is the only point with which we can agree, and make sure that Europe is also prepared or seems ready to review. In short, I think they don't care about what they're discussing, because their approach is always the same: a populist political pamphlet in which their energy strategy passes by abandoning climate policies, the goal of reducing emissions, betting on nuclear energy in the face of the energy crisis - which, of course, we don't share - and abandoning everything that they say or everything that Europe establishes. I am not going to disaggregate any measures here because we have discussed them a few times. It would be to argue things again, session after session, with the same arguments, and not because they bring here many times the same thing will come forward. They talk about energy strategy and the truth is that the government, whether they like it or not, has a strategy, even if they do not share it: the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, the Long-Term Decarbonization Strategy and the Just Transition Strategy. Certainly, do not count on us to support this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u215	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u216	President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are dealing with a motion that is VOX branded, bad in shape and bad in substance. In the form, because it is dedicated to making refreshments of initiatives already discussed - as has been said here - months ago, to those who wash their faces and include some points further there, to weight, to tuna; some, repeated with up to eighteen points that they have included to fill. And in the background, because they mix measures that can make sense with absolutely delirious others. Populism is to pose easy answers to complex problems, and this is what you do once again here. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, tell the truth. The energy problem in our country is so important and affects millions of Spanish families in such a real way that they do not deserve you to come here with completely simplistic eirreal recipes that do not solve anything at all. You again take advantage of such a serious issue as this, that of energy, to make propaganda of your fanatical delusions against climate change and globalist elites. They are asking our country to do things like abandoning the Paris Agreement or the European Green Pact, when they know that that is completely unreal, something I am not going to assess whether it is appropriate or not, is that as members of the European Union it is simply impossible. Do you want us to abandon the European Union? That's gonna be it. That is your alternative conceptual framework, Mr. Contreras. There is no proposal here. What is your alternative proposal if Spain abandons the Paris Agreement? How exactly is a legislative programme of the European Commission abandoned, such as the European Green Pact? I insist, tell the truth the Spaniards. They say that putting any of their proposals into action is going against Community law, and that would, in fact, mean halting European funds. Tell the Spanish that their proposals would mean leaving them without the opportunity to transform the country with the EUR 140 billion of European funds, tell them. You are so populist that I can no longer be surprised, because it is precisely you who supported the real decree of the management of the funds, giving the government of Sánchez free way to manage the funds as it pleases them, and now you are asking us to get out of all the European agreements so that we run out of funds. One thing I will recognize: when you copy, you do it very well. I am glad that they are in addition to the request we have been making for the entire legislature to cut taxes on electricity, and I am glad that they are in addition to the citizens' proposal to support nuclear energy as a backup energy in the energy transition. What is really worrying is that if you are the alternative to the improvisation and ideological obstinacy of the government, if your postulates are the alternative, the Spanish will have even more serious energy problems. That and not another is the truth. The truth, Mr Contreras, is that there are not many differences between your approaches, between the conceptual framework of VOX, illusory and empty promises, and those to which the Government is accustomed. The last one, which concerns the electricity bill, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, such as the gas cap, announced in drums and plates months ago and promising a fall in the price of the bill between 20% and 50%, nothing less. Reality is stubborn and always imposes itself. Once the star measure was implemented, the price drop in the first week was only 6%. All that without talking about the side effect of which our party has already warned you: the compensation in the price of gas supposes that we end up subsidizing gas to our French neighbours, as is happening. Fortunately, VOX anti-Europeanism and the government's ideological obstinacy are not the only possible options. In Citizens we have been presenting proposals for a rapid, real and sustainable reduction in electricity prices throughout the legislature. That way you'll always find the liberals. To play with the energy and the terrible situation that the families have been suffering for months, they will have us in front of them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u217	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u218	Thank you very much, President. After hearing them and reading some of the pearls - and not, precisely, bloody - that contains this motion, where they speak of climate fanaticism - the anti-climate fanatics speak of climate fanaticism -, criticizing the European green policies that want to impoverish us all, came to two conclusions: first, if in the Neolithic there were VOX, today we would not be in the Contemporary Age, we would be in the lower Palaeolithic. [[laughs]] Second, my daughter just had a second granddaughter ami. When I look at the two grandchildren, I worry, and I worry that someday these irresponsible climates like VOX can become government responsibilities. I'm very worried. Going to the motion, it is full of contradictions - it has already been pointed out by other spokespersons who have intervened here -, contradictions and forgotten, the usual ones. Contradictions. You're talking about energy sovereignty. We don't have oil, we don't have gas, we don't have uranium and you talk all the time about these points, and only two talk about what we have and what would allow us to have energy sovereignty. We have sun, we have wind and we have rain. Well, this only deserves two points of eighteen. The others are: uranium, gas, oil, pipelines, etc. And then, forget about it. It doesn't fail. [[Some Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Oltra, Oltra, Oltra!]] Did they say Olona? They say Olona? Olona? Olona? Olona say? What about Olona?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u219	One second, Your Honor. Mr. Baldoví, just a moment. Honestly, this isn't a schoolyard, please. I ask the gentlemen of the last row, mainly from the VOX Group, to keep the composition that the House deserves. [[Applauds]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u220	We won't talk about Olona. Forget it. Whenever VOX and PP talk about lowering the bill for light and lowering taxes. What if we lower the bill for the light by lowering the benefits of the electrics? What if taxes are paid by electricians and we don't have to lower taxes so that citizens can have good health, good education? Why doesn't VOX ever get involved with big companies? Mecachis! Always with tax cuts, but never with big companies. Finally, churro motion, as has already been defined by other spokespersons, to which we are accustomed VOX; refrigerated without substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u222	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we had doubts as to whether it was appropriate or not to intervene in this initiative because it does not really contribute much to what we have already discussed and to what has been raised in some terms that have already been repeated by you. And it is that on climate issues its solution, often, is denial and for energy issues its solution, often, is autarchy. Both issues are legitimate, as are so many others that you defend here, but not by legitimate means you necessarily have to be good. When the planet turns to one side and you try to turn to the other on climate issues we think that's reason enough to make you reflect. In fact, the only small aspiration we have at the time of this intervention is for you to reflect if it is not possible that those who are wrong are you on climate issues, when the world turns against you. This is the only ambition to which we aspire. We are going to vote against this initiative, of course, because we believe that, firstly, the measures that we think are right, such as the reduction of VAT, we have been proposing them in this House for more than two years and the Government has finally, late, made them its own; and secondly, because what you are proposing is absolutely unworkable, we would be calling for an autarchy that is absolutely undesirable on the part of our parliamentary group and that is why we will invite you to this reflection. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u224	Thank you, President. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is not easy, because one is taken seriously and respects this institution, to seriously value the initiatives that bring to this House. First, because the references on which the motion is based are as serious and objective press publications as everyone knows: Vozpópuli, La Razón, Foro Nuclear and El Español. You have a well-defined road map, in which neither the sovereignty of the country nor the Spanish is defended, you have no proposals for improving the economy, encouraging industry, research in new technologies and, much less, ensuring for the family, vulnerable people or the future of young people. His goal is for Spain to be like the chiringuito that Mr.Abascal mounted with the PP, but with the sign of'sell Spain to the best bidder', and they know that the best bidder is always a multinational or a foreign vulture fund. I began to read the motion: energy is a strategic and fundamental good. Yeah. Spain's energy dependence could and should be reduced by committed policies. Yeah, sure. VOX is poting, I thought. They have realized that in the United Nations We are right, that it is essential to have a public energy company, which would guarantee the reduction of this energy dependence, which could manage the renewables of which in Spain we are leaders, a clean and economic energy. Then I went on to read: decarbonisation ruins the Spanish and the Europeans. There you can see that you don't go that way. Your bet is on nuclear energy, ignoring the statements of many experts who say nuclear energy is slow, expensive and dangerous, although you don't care about this. And yes, it is very slow, because the construction time is over twelve years, far from the medium term. And yes, it is expensive, not only because of the cost of construction, but also because of the storage costs of its hazardous polluting waste or because of its dismantling. And yes, it's dangerous. Only one example that they will not be able to deny: the Chernobyl explosion generated more radiation than the Hiroshima bombatomic, affecting 150 000 square kilometers, 25% of the Iberian peninsula. It caused, according to WHO, nine thousand victims; tens of thousands of people are affected by cancer due to radiation. Therefore, those who care about Spain, those who care about their people cannot expose it and must protect it. You are fanatics of negationism, even though you know that, either we make a one hundred and eighty-degree turn, or we're going to end the planet as we know it. That is why we need to tackle climate change and do so now. Sirely they would work for and for Spain, help to protect their people and have supported the measures presented by the coalition government to protect it, but instead they have been constantly voting against it. Not protecting the environment means destroying the foundations that make life possible. Yes, every tenth of a degree that we are not able to contain is going to involve the suffering and death of many people, and we should be talking now, as we are already seeing the ravages of climate change, for example, in the food crises of certain countries. His policy is imbued with death drive. They plan to exit the Paris Agreement, which means an international minimum agreement to curb climate change. They also propose repealing all climate laws. It's a barbarity they propose! Defending ecological policies defend life; otherwise, barbarism. [[Applauds]] If they wanted the Spaniards, they would have voted in favour of the ERTE, which allowed the workers to keep their jobs and for the companies to resist the crisis caused by the pandemic; they would have supported the minimum living income, so that the less powerful Spaniards, as you have called them, could have a minimum of security; they would have supported the exceptional tax on electricity to redistribute the wealth of fair form and reduce the bill of light to families, self-employed people and businesses. But VOX's road map is another one. Its proposals are: environmental unprotectiveness; increasing life in nuclear power plants, endangering the life and economy of the country; increasing dependence on gas, despite the fact that it is causing the excessive increase in the bill that the Spanish pay, and eliminating taxes on electricity at the cost of public services, because you do not believe in social justice nor do you care, nor do you believe in equal opportunities. We shall vote against the motion. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u225	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are attending a further debate which shows that Spain already needs a change of government. On the one hand, we have a government that bases its energy policy, its environmental policy on sectarianism, radicalism and that obviates the economy. They have loaded the energy trilemma: with you there is neither security of supply nor universal access to a competitive energy price in Spain nor are we fulfilling our climate commitments. [[Applauds]] And, on the other hand, we have VOX, a political party that obviates climate risks and that bases its energy discourse on denial and simplism, as we see in the motion that is being debated today. In economic, environmental and energy policy, the People's Party has a clear position: we must fight climate change at the hands of the economy, accompanying companies, industries and families in our country, because there will be no fight against climate change without an economy, lords of the PSOE, nor will there be an economy without an environment, lords of VOX. And this is possible and must be possible for a simple reason: because it is sensible and because it appeals to common sense; common sense which, in view of the clashes between the radical left in the House and the negationism in this House, obliges me to state that it is the least common of the senses of one or another. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party signed Kyoto, the People's Party signed the Paris Agreements, the People's Party brought to this House the first climate change law, which could not be debated because the Socialist Party rejected it, and the People's Party brought yesterday a bill to boost hydrogen in our country and make it possible precisely that we are a less energy-dependent country. From here on, let us talk about the motion before us today in this debate. This motion, for many reasons, the People's Party cannot support it, and I will make you gentlemen of VOX, two reflections. First, the PP is not going to give up fulfilling the commitments we have made as a country, recently in Glasgow. Spain, with the help of a committed European PP, played a key role in the signing of the Paris Agreements, through the signing and ratification of Miguel Arias Cañete, and in those of Kyoto, in 1998, when Loyola de Palacios signed those agreements. And, second, gentlemen of VOX, to believe that climate change is not a global problem with traumatic local impacts is to obviate what is happening in the world. I am not going to argue with you about what science has already shown, that human activity contributes to the warming of the planet and that, or we solve this problem, or our future as a society is in danger, but I am willing, and I think it can be useful, that we debate about what is right and what is wrong, and tell people that the truth is right, and that telling people what they want to hear for a handful of votes, obviating the truth, is wrong, very wrong, gentlemen of VOX. Look, you just need to read Funcas' latest report. Spain is located in one of the regions that is going to suffer, in the short term, in the world major changes as a result of climate change: desertification, water problems, problems for our productive sectors, as well as border and migratory problems, as we are seeing in recent weeks, which are also going to increase as the crisis gets worse, precisely in the Sahel. We, as a planet, need to pollute less, and we cannot ask countries that pollute more to stop polluting if we are not an example. In that sense, you and we, the PP, are very distant; we are in the antipodes, lords of VOX. To the Socialist Party, to the government party, I would like to say that what has happened this week to a Commission that had to debate two laws that were going to be a disaster for our country's economy and industry is a one-sided scandal, because they knew that they were going to lose the vote in that Commission. Suspended by 24 hours the holding of a Commission is a parliamentary anomaly that has no precedent in Spanish parliamentarianism. He doesn't have any priors. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs something else. I ask the radical and sectarian left to listen to the advice of the PP, and to VOX, to tell the truth to the Spaniards, that by a handful of votes it is not worth it; we must tell the truth to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u227	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs García Chavarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u228	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Eleven pages, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. Eleven pages of contradictions, inconsistencies, errors; that's right, all dressed up in dislates and fallacies. You build your false account by denying the scientific evidence of the climate crisis. And, of course, they have no problem constantly perverting the data. You do not care about the people of this country because you have not come to politics to improve the life of the middle and working class; you really only care about your portfolio and that of the elites who support you. [[Applauds]] But the Socialist Party does worry us and, in the face of the biggest energy crisis for decades, we have responded by protecting people and families, and also by protecting industry with the reduction of tolls, with the compensation of CO2, with the flexibility in gas contracts and by implementing aid to fuels and transporters. It turns out that you voted against, like the People's Party, right?, that you always vote against everything that means improving people's lives. You remember the worst thing, the better. Don't you? Yeah, they do remember. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Well, that's it! So they are voting against the rise in pensions, the labour reform, the low minimum wage or any other measure that this government wants, right, ladies and gentlemen? [[A congressman makes gestures with his hands]] Don't make any gestures, that's right. You know that's the case. You, when you ruled, took the largest number of tax hikes in our country's tax history, more than forty hikes! Yeah, yeah, yeah. Over 40 tax hikes. In addition, they were invented around ten new ones, plus 21% of VAT that we were left there. [[Applauds]] And now it turns out that we have to listen to Mr Feijóo say that this government is in line with taxes, when he should know that it is the autonomous communities that receive the taxes of light and hydrocarbons. And I ask you: why, when Mr Feijóo was president of the Xunta de Galicia, did he not redistribute more than EUR 550 million in aid to transporters, farmers, fishermen or farmers? Or why did the soap from the water leave us prepared? Or why didn't you then tell Mr Rajoy, when he was ruling, to lower taxes and stop cutting pensions, health and education? So they didn't care about the tax massacre we were being subjected to? Is that political coherence, ladies and gentlemen? Who are you trying to fool now? [[Applauds]] Or, rather, to whom do you intend to please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Even in spite of you, we will continue to work to avoid the impact of the war in Putin, taking measures such as those adopted this Saturday in the Council of Ministers - in total, almost EUR 15 billion to ease the pocket of citizens, and we will do so without mortgageing our future or excluding public services - and we will continue to work to amend your misguided past, because, as bad as it weighs, we are already getting it. In less than four years we have managed to have our installed renewable power at 57.2%, ten more points than you have left us, and we have also managed to be a growing European benchmark in clean energy. And that's the way, to continue betting on energy efficiency and taking advantage of the resources we have. We will continue to enhance energy vectors such as hydrogen and storage, which will be key sectors to help us sustain a mix that is energetically independent of third countries. There you will find us, ladies and gentlemen, and the citizens of this country. Nothing more and very graceful. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-06-29-CD220629.u229	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was two and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
