ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree Law 2/2022 of 22 February, adopting urgent measures for the protection of self-employed workers, for the transition to structural mechanisms for the defence of employment and for the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma, and extending certain measures to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability. In order to present the royal decree law, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u2	Good morning to everyone and everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for being here at the beginning of the session. I stand before all of you for the second time this year to ask for the validation of a royal decree law that once again complies with the Government's commitment to support working people, self-employed people, businesses, households and, ultimately, those most in need of the public. The context in which we discussed this royal decree has nothing to do with the context in which it was adopted. We never thought that Putin was capable of provoking the barbarity that is being lived in Ukraine. Bombing a mother-child hospital is overstepping any limit, and that barbarity that has caused Putin - unique and exclusively Putin - is having consequences... [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. This barbarism, which is having consequences, of course and in the first place in human lives and broken lives in Ukraine, will also have economic consequences on the rest of the European continent. Therefore, if the validation of the decree-law as it was passed in the Council of Ministers was necessary to protect, today it is even more necessary. It is clear that we are experiencing a time of uncertainty, an uncertainty that neither the Government of Spain nor any European Government has caused, but whose consequences this Government as any other government is obliged to address, and we are already doing so by offering certainty, security and protection to Spanish society. We have not yet completely overcome the worst pandemic of this century and are now facing an unprecedented new threat to European security and values. President Sánchez - you already know him - has announced a national plan of response against the impact of the war in our country, which will focus on protecting workers, families and businesses from the consequences that the war provoked by Putin may have. When we talk about protection from the crisis, we have to be aware that there are people and families who need strengthened public support, and the objective of this royal decree law is precisely to protect those people who need more than others public support for their social needs and their economic needs. And when the values of our democracy are challenged, it is time to defend them, and an essential value of our democracy is solidarity. We do all this without losing the direction that we have set in motion since the beginning of the investiture: digitisation of the country and working for a model of energy production that is cleaner and more sustainable, now more necessary than ever. And we implement policies that guarantee prosperity and improve the lives of the citizens of our country. We are a government that is committed to its project of transformation of the country, but simultaneously it is able to manage the crises that we are experiencing at such difficult times in the history of Europe, and that is why we will do so with all the political and moral strength that has a democracy, without leaving anyone behind and working so that everyone can have a better future in our country. The Royal Decree-Law I present contains six large groups of measures. The first is intended for the protection of self-employed workers. The second, to facilitate the transition of pandemic ERTs to the new model established in labour reform. The third package includes the extension of some of the measures - which we still consider necessary - of the social shield. The fourth group provides some technical clarifications on the enjoyment of permission for the care of children with cancer or other serious diseases. The fifth block concerns the protection of cultural workers, who have suffered so much during the pandemic. And the sixth and last block contains measures to alleviate the consequences of the volcanic eruption in La Palma and to deal with the new family situations. If it seems to you, very briefly, I will expose the contents of each of the blocks. The first block, on the protection of self-employed workers, protects and facilitates the reactivation of the activity of self-employed persons. For this purpose, the special termination benefit is maintained until 30 June 2022 for those self-employed workers who had to suspend their activity as a result of COVID, so that they will continue to receive the extraordinary benefit of 70 % of the minimum contribution base. Secondly, the contribution exemptions for those who have received a cessation benefit are extended for four months. The second block of measures of the Royal Decree-Law is the result of the social dialogue and automatically extends until 31 March the ERTEs which are still in force and which currently affect just under 100,000 people. Remember that at the worst time in the pandemic there were 3.6 million people affected by ERTE; at the moment, less than 100 000 people were affected. As a result, over the next month, companies will maintain the contribution exemptions and will have time to adapt to the new REDD mechanism approved by the labour reform. Workers will maintain their benefits without having to do absolutely any work. The third block of measures is intended to extend the social shield aid which we believe is still necessary in this context. The suspension of eviction procedures and launches for vulnerable households with no alternative are extended until 30 September and, in parallel, also extends, in this case until 31 October, the possibility for tenants to seek compensation in these cases. A second measure that I would like to highlight, particularly in this context that we are living in, is that cuts in electricity, natural gas and water supplies to vulnerable consumers are prohibited until 30 June, because until that very day the definition of vulnerable consumers is maintained, which you will remember that we are expanding to avoid cuts in water, electricity or gas. [[Applauds]] We also extend the I CARE Plan until 30 June, which includes measures to make it easier for people to take care of patients with COVID. The fourth block of the royal decree law is addressed to those persons who are forced to obtain a work permit for the care of children with cancer or other serious diseases. The Budget Law extended this right until the sick person turned 23 years old, and what we do in this Decree Law is to clarify that the parents can re-apply this right, even though it would have been extinguished before the Budget Law came into force on 1 January 2022, for having in this case met the maximum age that at that time the legislation proposed, which was eighteen years old. This point is clarified and, therefore, we once again facilitate living conditions for parents who have children with serious illnesses. In addition, the Royal Decree provides that if the sick person had contracted marriage or formed a de facto partner, his or her spouse or partner could also benefit from this measure. Fifthly, the Royal Decree-Law extends until 30 June the unemployment benefits and subsidies to the cultural sector: artists, auxiliary and technical staff, as well as to Taurino professionals. Sixthly, and finally, the rule revalidates the Government's commitment to those affected by the eruption of the La Palma volcano. The so-called volcanic ERTEs become force majeure ERTEs in application of what the Workers' Statute says after the labor reform, and we keep them until June 30, without any additional formalities to avoid bureaucracy and avoid unnecessary paperwork. We also extend aid to self-employed people and businesses, which include deferrals and instalments of payments in their social security contributions. Finally, we approved a national plan for seismic, volcanic and other geophysical monitoring. The volcano has shown that we must optimize the resources we have and improve our systems for monitoring, detecting, preventing and regulating geophysical risks. Let us not forget that in Spain in the year 2021 there were more than 18,000 earthquakes, almost 1000 were felt by the population and, therefore, have a system of seismic surveillance that is modern, to the extent of the capacity that our research community has, I believe it is also a challenge that the Government enhances with this legislative forecast. Finally, we strengthen the system with surveillance networks, we advance in the knowledge of research and we establish that this plan will be effective for four years, led by the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, never, ever has a government had to face a succession of crises like the ones we are experiencing. The speed of events, their unpredictable nature and the magnitude of each of them have placed the level of demand of the rulers and public administrations at an unprecedented height, and we have had to redouble our efforts to adapt and overcome them every day. We will all agree that this legislature will pass into history not only because of the events experienced, but also because of its profound social, economic and political impact. The world is changing, Spain is changing and our responsibility is to adapt to and lead change. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we adapt our government action and deploy measures that I sincerely believe we can be proud of, because we are achieving positive results for the vast majority of our country, and we are also satisfied, because we meet our expectations and what we want for our country. Last week, the unemployment data were published, with a further decrease in February, almost 11,400 people stopped less and an affiliation of more than 67,000 people. Over the past 12 months, unemployment has been reduced by 900,000 people, the largest fall in the historical series and, for the first time, employment is growing not only quantitatively but also in quality. We have had an additional 140% of indefinite contracts, thanks to the labour reform, which almost half of the House wanted to bring down. [[Applauds]] And, also, the data on youth unemployment are very positive, because we have managed to reduce the number of unemployed under the age of 25 by almost 40% in the last year, so that we are overcoming the pandemic and we are also overcoming thanks to the rules of this government, thanks to the labour reform, the major structural problems of our labour market, precariousness and youth unemployment, to which we referred with fair recovery when we talked about what the government wanted to get out of the pandemic. The decree law that we are debating today is not an isolated measure, it is part of a structured and planned set of measures that seek to respond to a context of crisis and also to a political will to transform our country. We protect the most vulnerable, we lay the foundations for a better country, with stronger and fairer economic growth and, therefore, we are a strong Government, planning its work and fulfilling its commitments. We said that we would leave no one behind and every day we worked to leave no one behind; we committed ourselves to La Palma and not abandon public policies there on the island of La Palma until the last life projects affected by the volcano recover, and we are doing so. An example of this commitment will be the institutional act that we will celebrate this Saturday of tribute to all the inhabitants of the island of La Palma for their civic sense, for their generosity and how they have faced the eruption of the volcano, and also the Conference of Autonomous Presidents, which we will celebrate on Sunday. Go ahead our recognition and our tribute to all the inhabitants of the island of La Palma. [[Applauds]] No one announced any pandemics or unjustifiable and unjustifiable wars or volcanic eruptions when this House gave the inauguration to President Pedro Sánchez. With dialogue, with much dialogue, with work, with effort, we have been able to move our country forward with measures that have made it possible to improve people's lives. Right now, we have a situation of uncertainty, but we have a course. We are aiming to transform our country, to achieve a stronger economy and to achieve a greater number of protected people with greater rights and freedoms. We are giving certainty, in the face of uncertainties, and we are giving prosperity, in the face of the economic and social problems caused by the crises, by the pandemic and by the war. I would like to recall that these moments of uncertainty are also moments that should be of unity. The other day, it was very exciting to see the whole House applauding the representative of the Ukrainian Government who was present in the debate we had last week. Those moments of unity, which make us proud and which make it worth what we do, are precisely moments that I call them to validate this decree law. I think it is essential that we continue to bet on supporting people who have the most difficulties, that we continue to bet on La Palma, that we tell palm trees and palm trees that they have the future, that we say that these crises we face together, that there are no differences here and that what we want is the best for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u4	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. This decree law, like many of those who have come to this House, is a mixture of subjects that makes it very difficult for us to oppose validation, because they are fairly homogeneous subjects in this case, most of which correspond to extensions of anti-COVID measures and are very varied. There is the issue of self-employed people, the issue of ERTE, the issue of aid to the island of La Palma for the volcano disaster, the issue of eviction measures and compensation for owners, the issue of electricity supply and the issue of the housing plan. In short, all are necessary things and, in this case, the decree law is fully justified. It must also be said that there is a partial good thing in the prior processing of the Decree Law on Self-Government, because in this case it has been negotiated with one of the most important self-government associations in this country. An example of the measures agreed with them is to maintain the extraordinary benefit by administrative closure or the extraordinary extension until 30 June for La Palma, and even the elimination of the extraordinary and ordinary benefits linked to COVID and the exemption of contributions for 110,000 self-employed persons, ranging from 90 % in March to 25 % in June. It is also true that you have not negotiated with all the associations and the majority have been informed by the BOE, I understand that there must be more opportunities to negotiate. I take the opportunity to recall that in the RETA, the Special Self-Employed Workers' Regime, it was not consensual and, in addition, it had a great opposition from the vast majority of the autonomous in this country. It would be very good if they tried to reach a consensus. Now that we are talking about a situation of great uncertainty, it would not be wrong to paralyse its implementation in order to seek consensus. This is supposed to be a progressive government that has to defend the workers and the self-employed, that there are millions in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u5	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u6	I'm on my way. I said the other day that this mix of workers and entrepreneurs is worthy of the support of all the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, this is a real decree law which, in fact, probably has for a development of each and every one of its sections, which would deserve the corresponding speech. We do not have time for that, but we will tell you that it seems to us that it is clear that to the problems we already had, which were not few, a monstrous war has just been added, the Putin war, which, as we know, is causing enormous suffering to the Ukrainian people, to the Russian people and also to the peoples of Europe, and this is going to go through all the measures that are being taken now, because it is clear that things are not going to be the same. For example, thinking of La Palma, the reconstructions no longer have the same cost as they were going to have before and the measures taken to protect them are not going to have the same cost as they were going to have before. The tremendous nonsense of the question of the formation of energy prices, by an opaque mechanism and by a speculative mechanism, must be settled immediately; it is necessary to correct this nonsense, because it is seriously affecting people's living conditions. We share, as it cannot be otherwise, support for the most vulnerable sectors, because that is precisely what it is about. If anything differentiates the response to this set of crises that we have been suffering is precisely the involvement of the public, the involvement of governments in solving the problems of citizenship. In the case of La Palma, I often say that we must continue to act until we recover the situation prior to the volcanic emergency that this island has experienced, so that this royal decree law is neither the first nor can be the last to act on the serious problems that palm trees and palm trees have raised. With regard to ERTE, it is good to move ERTE from force majeure to ERTE immediately, but I am very afraid that setting them a date, such as 30 June, is insufficient, Minister. I'm sure that can be corrected. One issue: a national plan for seismic and other monitoring of natural disasters or emergencies is very important. Let it be clear that Canarias has a powerful structure that has demonstrated its capacity throughout this time and that it must be counted on to go accumulating...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u9	Mr. Quevedo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u10	... a plan like this. Thank you very much. It's nine seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the people of La Palma continue to suffer. Aid has not just arrived and is insufficient. As for the autonomous, they continue to wait, like all palm trees, for a reconstruction plan that gives them hope. The measures that are put to the vote today are fine, but they remain patchy; they extend the cessation benefit for four more months, but in four months it is impossible for many affected self-employed people to re-open or resume their activity. Puerto Naos, For example, one of the largest tourist areas on the island, is now completely closed by the presence of gases in the area. Vulcanologists don't know when to reopen. It will be a month, six months, a year to access the area and then you have to clean the ashes, recover the destroyed and reopen the business. This government offers them four months more to 600 euros, which is fine, but it doesn't even give them much to eat. Many have lost their homes and all their assets. Many of the island's self-employed have already surrendered, why not?, are targeted at the employment plan and at least have a wage for a while. To those who do not want to surrender we have to offer certainties so that they will move forward, hope, a horizon, because, if not, on the way we will lose the entrepreneurs, we will lose economy, we will lose talent and, above all, certainty. When the COVID began, Angela Merkel, in Germany, introduced a measure similar to the Spanish ERTE, only in the German case from the beginning it lasted a year and a half. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, like to put a measure three or four months more and if that is extended and extended again and extended again. What do you guys win? Press conferences; a press conference each time they expand a measure. Do you think there's anyone who wants to be inert for pleasure? Or that a company pays its share of ERTE for pleasure? But what do citizens lose? The certainty of not knowing what funds they will rely on the next month to pay rent or light. Ladies and gentlemen, La Palma needs serious, planned and certain measures, with a time horizon to be fulfilled; a real and true reconstruction plan with budgets and timetable, so that people can make decisions about their lives and be sure to make those decisions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u14	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. The minister referred to the previous occasion when he had to come here - in that case it was at the beginning of the year - to announce short-term, non-structural measures that maintained or implied certain levels of social protection for all the people who were going through it badly, with the reality very marked at that time by the still difficult pandemic; however - and the minister also said - we are now faced with an even more serious situation because of the reality that has to do with the war in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russia. And all that is true, but - we told you before and we tell you now - the problem, the difficulty is going to follow after this vote, this approval. We are going to vote in favour, but, as I say, the problem is going to follow, because in the background you are always putting forward short-term measures for a problem which, unfortunately, is structural and which reality makes it even more structural. Because you point out - and it is not the only one, it is done by many people in the government; do not take it, therefore, as a personal reproach - that these measures are allowing no one to be left behind. I think that is very bad for the millions of 'nothings' who are lagging behind, because these measures, even if necessary, do not serve to ensure effective social protection for all. It is enough to look at the hemerotheques, it is not a matter of dialectical controversy; that is, every day we see evictions, every day we see people who go to unemployment, every day we see people who have difficulties in sustaining basic services or in accessing basic services - water, light, electricity - and therefore live in energy poverty. I will give you data - which I suppose you also know - that in some way certify that these measures allow no one to be left behind is not true; probably without these measures there would be more people who would be left behind, that I do buy it, yes I accept it, but it is not true, beyond the political bomb, that with this everything is solved, that with this there is no one in a situation of difficulty. Why do we tell you that these measures are still insufficient? Because they are short-term, because they are not structural, because every time we try to get something to be structural we find ourselves in a parliamentary maraña that forces us to spend months in order to turn into structural, that is to say, in the end, something as basic as that no one is deprived of their access to electricity. And there we go, and hopefully one day we can say that it has become a basic, universal and permanent right, but today that is not yet so. This is probably not the case because the different governments of this state have not been able, at least in the last forty years - not to go any further - in the years of democracy, whatever colour they may be, to put the population at risk of vulnerability, poverty, below 18%. Moreover, in the year 2021 that percentage was 21%, which translated - for me to understand it even better - means that 9,829,000 people in the Spanish state and in 2021 were at risk of falling into poverty. See there as there are millions of people who don't feel directly concerned about what we tell them here. But if you have not been able to lower that poverty risk threshold, you have not been able to lower it with child poverty either. More than two million children are currently living in child poverty in the Spanish State. Youth unemployment is 37.4%, according to the latest data. There's nothing to indicate that he came down abruptly. It may not have increased - I don't know, we'll have to wait for the data - but it hasn't descended. The gender gap remains 28.6%, according to the latest Gestha reports of 2020. The evictions in 2021 grew by three over those that were provoked or succeeded in 2020, from 9873 to 35 000. 37.4% of people who have rented a home spend more than 40% of their income on paying for that home. Inflation, which in December was 6.5% and seemed scandalous to us, is now 7.5%. The electricity companies last year added more than €65 billion in profits; however, we citizens saw how the price of the electricity bill was multiplied, despite other short-term measures that we also approved at the time, but we also pointed out that they were insufficient. And from this reality of data, we do draw some certain conclusions: the first is that the economic system in which we move, in which the Spanish State moves and forces us all to move, whether right or wrong, needs a legion of the poor; that this system is profoundly unequal and poorly redistributive; that the social protection system that the Spanish State deploys is incomplete and leaves many people behind. That, which is obvious from our point of view, we know that it is going to be more - nor is it necessary to be very clear - if what we do within this militaristic escalation that is taking place in all European societies is that more public resources are being invested in militaristic logics, in armaments, in defence, and that there is therefore less money to be spent on social protection policies. All this in a context in which this Government, like the previous ones and with this model, has always tried to link or reconcile the interests of the elites with the interests of the popular classes. We have told you on more than one occasion, we believe more in an old maxim that said neither war between peoples nor peace between classes, because we do not believe that the interests of the elites can be reconciled with the interests of an increasingly impoverished popular class. And even more, we know that the mineral resources, which are finite, are less and less and that, therefore, access to them is increasingly difficult. Those who access it are those who have a position of force and use that position of force in any of the possibilities in which it is possible to do so. We know that global warming is going to increase, that it is going to create more and more difficult places of life and that the strong states are going to pretend to shield themselves from that difficult reality, and here we have to look to the future. We are told hard times, when sacrifices will have to be made, and I believe that the first question to ask the president is who will have to make sacrifices and how intense they will have to do them. Mr Borrell asked that, in view of the price of gas and the dependence on Russian gas, we close the gas access keys for citizens, and he does not realize that gas consumption by citizens is barely 12% of the total. It is the industry that consumes the most and the one that is already closing this week and is going to close en masse probably the next. We are told about the price of fuels and it is obvious that already on Monday there seems to be a strike of transporters because they cannot go on with this. That is why we ask for radical measures. We ask you to put a stop to energy prices, to avoid wage devaluation, to ensure universal access to light, water and heating for everyone and not just those who can afford it and that there is more support for SMEs and self-employed people. And as someone will tell us that how you can pay all this, how you can do all this, we tell you that it is very easy: that you have to pay more those who have more, that you have to have special taxes for the banking, for the big fortunes and for the companies of IBEX 35 and above all, if this seems hard - I suppose to those companies will seem hard - we tell you to invoke Article 128 of the Spanish Constitution, of its sacred text, which says that all the wealth of the country will be at the service of the general interest at a specific time. Well, at a time of war economy it seems that we can be defining quite well and with certainty...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u15	Mr. Matute, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u16	...what is the concrete moment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Egun on. First of all, I confess that it came with a brief, very short intervention on two things of this royal decree, but I will start with another because it has impacted me, especially in the context in which we are of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and I have not been able to overlook a phrase that I have just heard in an intervention, which said: not to war between peoples or peace between classes. Not to war in any way, in any way, Oskar, in any way. Very briefly. The legislative initiative before us is already a classic in this ceremony of the short-term situation - I believe - of both COVID and - we hope - Ukraine, which allows the Executive to mask certain actions in the legislative proposals which are necessary, but which should have had greater systematic and conceptual clarity. This Royal Decree Law 2/2022, adopting urgent measures for the protection of self-employed workers and for the transition to structural mechanisms for the defence of employment, seeks - at least it seems - two things: to extend in time in one way and in the content of another the measures referred to in the Sixth Social Agreement in Defense of Employment, which in turn inspired those provided for in Royal Decree Law 18/2021 of 28 September. In the case of the first and second Articles it is aimed precisely at the protection of self-employed persons by means of certain measures of exemption from contributions, as well as other measures of extension of the extra benefit by cessation of activity, while other additional provisions, in particular the first and second provisions, refer to the transition to the new employment regulation dossiers of Articles 47 and 47a of the Staff Regulations and their extension until 31 March 2022, including in other paragraphs measures on contributions and protection of employment, also for persons with permanent fixed contracts or carrying out fixed and periodic work on certain dates, as well as other supplementary measures. However, what characterizes this royal decree is precisely the complementary issues to which I have referred, which are the subject of its additional and final provisions, which also do not retain any element of cohesion between them. It is so with some who are of mere justice, such as the extraordinary measures relating to the island of LaPalma, which are contained in both additional and final provisions, or with others relating to the procedure of eviction and launching for vulnerable households without housing alternatives, which are criticized in its content, but justifiable only in a situation of exceptionality. Also with regard to situations of social and economic vulnerability in the field of housing and transport, although my group is interested in highlighting the sixth additional provision, which we must describe as an interpretative clause of the measure of recognition of a benefit for parents of minors with cancer or other serious illness, referred to in Article 190 et seq. of the General Social Security Act, Article 37.6 of the Workers' Statute and Article 49 of the EBEP, of the Basic Staff Regulations, as amended by an initiative of my group in this year's budget. Well, this new measure uses, let's put it this way, a curious hermeneutic technique that comes to an end with the interpretation of the substantive provisions in the precepts that I have just quoted through another rule with force of law to obtain a result, which is the one that already pointed out the norm or the modification itself and the one that intended those affected and promoted by my group: to make effective that right of the beneficiaries to the child-care allowance; that it could take effect from the age of 18 until the age of 23, but already from an initial moment, without any need for interpretative rules. As we said, ladies and gentlemen, this is a rule in which this journey did not require these saddlebags. Minister, we believe that this measure was already contained in the law itself and there was no need to raise this hermeneutic element of the law itself, which was already in the system, to a standard of law. We therefore welcome in some way, especially those affected, the fact that this measure has materialised or implemented, although we believe that the use of such legislative techniques remains critical. We will vote in favour, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister Bolaños. I will begin almost as you have begun your intervention. These are serious, serious moments for history, and from here I want to express my most sincere revulsion and that of my parliamentary group at the last civilian attack on Mariupol's motherhood perpetrated by a tyrant named Putin. We find this Royal Decree-Law 2/2022, which we validate today, and which in very short accounts comes to be an extension of what has already been approved in Royal Decree-Law 18/2021, whose validation supported Citizens. It will not be surprising, therefore, to announce that our vote will also be in favour of this royal decree, and it is not necessary to explain why, since it addresses good measures for workers and good measures for families, which we support. In addition, we support them because many of them were launched after the pandemic began, after our demands and after our negotiations for the extensions of the alarm states. We therefore welcome it, as we also welcome the corrections made by his Government when, for example, it withdraws the veto on the law of the ELA, as the other day, or when it responds, albeit late, to the demands of the liberals regarding the action of the crisis in Ukraine. Let us see if your Government follows this path, Mr Bolaños, let go of it, turn the populisms away from your Government and throw the Podemos out of it. And since you have mentioned the economic consequences that your Government is willing to alleviate and that you have said that your Government is willing to do everything possible to protect the most defenceless and the most vulnerable, I ask you from this rostrum, and following that path of rectification that you were talking about, that you are ready to vote on the Citizens' initiative today, that non-legislative proposal that asks to adapt the sections of the personal income tax to inflation, because you know as I do that inflation affects purchasing power and makes citizens poorer, and it affects those who have the least, the most vulnerable, to whom you have said in this rostrum that you want to protect your Government. From this royal decree - we enter into this matter - the ERTE are shaped as a great temporary mechanism to avoid the destruction of employment in companies or sectors that suffer some temporary shock. In the last extension of the ERTE, incentives were introduced for the training of workers, as the liberal group we were asking, something essential if we want to avoid perpetuating the ERTE and that companies and workers become zombies who will never join the activity... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u21	Excuse me, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause]] I thank you that we can continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u22	Thank you, President. He said that these ERTEs carry incentives for conversion and it was essential that ERTEs of crisis were evolving to ERTEs of conversion in order to prevent workers from encountering a situation of not being able to return to their work, either because companies did not request it, or because they could not continue to bear those costs or because they would not have had the opportunity to convert. In this regard, we also believe that the transition from the existing EREs to the new system of the Workers' Statute following the adoption of the labour reform, for which my group also supported, would be appropriate. If we do it right as a country, we have the opportunity to create a mechanism that, at the same time, avoids the destruction of employment and increases the productivity of workers. This royal decree also incorporates aid to self-employed people, which we of course support, as it could not otherwise be, because this is measures that go in favour of this group of workers in our country, of self-employed workers, of self-employed workers, and not what Minister Escriva intends to do from his ministry by reforming the RETA in a way that seriously attacks the least-entered self-employed workers. In the same way, Minister Bolaños, we see positive and necessary aid to La Palma, who has also experienced that tragedy you were talking about. We have lived - everyone in this House has suffered and we have been here at hard times - during the legislature the pandemic, the natural disaster of La Palma and now a war of Putin against Ukraine. These are all critical situations and that is where the State must act with all determination and without any lukewarmness or nuances. That is why we ask you to throw away the populisms of your Government, because we also do not know how long this situation is going to last and how many people it can affect and, whatever it may be, your Government must do everything it needs and will have, as they have always had in difficult and difficult times, the hand of Citizens, of the Liberal Party, to support them, because we are a party that has the responsibility of the State. Minister Bolaños, we are experiencing serious historical moments, contexts of health, natural and economic crises, but more can be done in the face of uncertainty. The President said that difficult times were coming; I share that and I insist that today they vote in favour of our proposal to deflate the income tax on natural persons, because if we all have to make an effort, as the President said, Finance too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Royal Decree Law 2/2022, it is true, points to a whole complex of measures in line with what have been the last measures taken by the Government in the field of royal decrees laws. In the area of self-employed persons, the extra benefit for cessation of activity, the extension of the time limits for contribution exemptions, the extension of ERTE until 31 March 2022 - the ERTE which was in force throughout the pandemic - the suspension of evictions again until 30 September 2022 or the extension of the Care Plan; all these measures have been necessary throughout the pandemic. We would have made them different or, perhaps, if they had been dealt with as a bill, we would have been able to bring many more elements, many improvements to the regulation they had, but I have always insisted, Minister - and I must stress this - that you have turned extraordinary measures into a system of gradually extending each of these extraordinary measures. And two years ago the pandemic; it's March 2022 and the pandemic was March 2020. All these measures began in March 2020, and all that has been done is to extend them systematically - let's see what the new deadline is. So far the excuse was the COVID-19; now the excuse is the war of Putin, totally condemnable, totally - to put it correctly - deceivable - but the important thing, what cannot happen now is that this succession of events that you pointed out earlier, these facts, are unpredictable: it is not true. Up to six waves were counted, so if there are up to six waves, it cannot be unpredictable. You said: a set of planned measures. But the royal decrees have been nothing more than repeating extraordinary measures. We have always said this: extraordinary measures cannot be taken one after the other. The measures are good, we will have to adopt them because they are much needed, but this Government has done nothing planned, but has been systematically extending these measures. And to the detriment of who? To the detriment of uncertainty, to be able to manage with legal certainty ERTEs, suspensions of evictions or the Care Plan. As for the Plan Me Care, Minister Escrivá said at the beginning of the COVID that he would make a benefit so that parents could bear the fact that they could not go to work at their company if they had to care for their loved ones, such as the spouse, children, etc.; this benefit of the Plan ME CARE has not occurred in two years. The MENU Plan continues to exist, people can reduce the day to almost 100%, but the state has not been able to manage a benefit that was already promised in March 2020, which all groups have been systematically requesting since March 2020, but which two years later does not exist. So let the tree not cover the forest. The measures are necessary and we will have to give them support in order to support the extraordinary provision of the self-employed, the MENU Plan or the extension of the ERTs, but this has nothing extraordinary, but we have been in this situation for two years.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u25	Mr. Boadella, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u26	I'm done, President. It would have been good if the Government, beyond extraordinary measure after extraordinary measure, beyond real decree after real decree would have adopted structural measures that would also be valid for us, now, to face the serious global crisis in which we are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u28	Thank you, President. Minister, this royal decree says to protect the autonomous, but - all the comrades have remembered - it is the extension until 30 June of measures that are approved, necessary but not sufficient. I'm going to focus on self-employed people and SMEs. The pressure on the collective of self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises is inexhaustible. What you need is air and what you need are realistic and effective measures; it makes no sense to continue suffocating those who are producing. I'll remind you of four numbers. PIMEC Catalunya has 144,000 affiliates. PIMEC, Cecot, Anem per feina are recognized social agents in Catalonia that you have ignored, that you continue to ignore. The most incomprehensible thing is that in Spain you have an agent you don't recognize, this agent is CONPYMES, a employer representing more than two million small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed. On the other hand, whom you do recognize is CEPYME, a employer who does not have a single member and who is financially dependent on the CEO. Can you explain this anomaly?, can you explain how you negotiate a labor reform with a employer who does not have a single member and, instead, you left aside one who has more than two million self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises? I can explain why, because you don't care about small and medium-sized enterprises or self-employed people. And today is a good day to remember that the Spanish large late companies owe more than 80 billion euros in invoices to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed. You can't continue to carry this situation to the point of making a business open not come to mind, which is exactly what is happening today. Unfortunately, we depend on the decisions you do not make. Very rhetorical, but few effective decisions. If it depended on us, if it depended on Catalonia, today SMEs and self-employed people would have real help, like most countries in Europe. They would have a decent contribution system, legislation on the marginalist market, taxes on fuels would be reduced, and large electricity companies and banks would be responsible for providing aid to those who produce and generate employment, i.e. SMEs and self-employed. I'm going to give you more demolishing data. The main Spanish electricity companies, in the midst of the crisis, have tripled their profits. While SMEs drown - while drowning - and closing, the big Spanish electric companies - Repsol, Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy - close 2021 with a net profit of more than EUR 11 billion, that is, 226 % more than in the previous year, 2020. According to the Consumers and Users Organisation, the steps taken by the Sánchez Government, the most progressive government in history, have not reduced the price of electricity or slowed the increase in bills. In 2021 the citizens of the Kingdom of Spain have paid 9 billion euros more light and gas than in 2020. Russia has just left the Council of Europe. Minister, very difficult and very complex times are coming. So, June 30th is not going to end anything. Make decisions commensurate with the circumstances, Minister. The balance sheet that SMEs and self-employed people do is not satisfactory and it cannot be. You have shown yourself to have no idea what the self-employed are, nor have you taken any care to know them at all. I have no doubt that today the best thing that can happen to a SME and an autonomous in Catalonia is that Catalonia is an independent State and can manage resources and aid effectively. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u30	Good morning, President, thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From empathy, from compassion for all the people who suffer the horrors of war, from support for those who fight so much horror, it will allow me to say, Minister, that it is between soez and pathetic that it is used as an argument, in favor of a vulgar royal decree law of patches and extensions, the bombing of a motherhood. [[Applauds]] Too epic; too epic, Minister, for so little patch. You change to the drafter of these speeches, because moreover, as you can assume and as you have already said in the House, Esquerra Republicana will not vote against the validation of a real decree law whose approval depends on the maintenance of the benefits for cessation of activity and the exemption of payment of social security quotas to self-employed workers who have been hardest hit by the social and economic effects of the crisis. Although these exemptions are insufficient - they are - we are not going to trade with the needs of the small productive fabric. Although the benefits are insufficient and short-term, we will not reduce this issue to cheap policy. Surely, the ministry - not yours, of course - before even talking to us at the time of the rule, already secretly counted on it to take our thirteen votes, even though everyone knows that what this parliamentary group has asked for is much more than what is being voted on today. What has been requested is, among other things, that those who could not bill during the COVID crisis should not have to be decapitalized or even indebted by paying quotas that for the smaller ones are totally disproportionate. In all likelihood, the fact that our party's vote on the protection of the most modest self-employed is so predictable can be a weakness. For us, humbly, it is a source of pride, because it seems to us a symptom of loyalty, because it demonstrates congruence and commitment to the self-employed workers. Mr Minister, this intervention could end here with the typical 'good but not enough' resource or that we will remain in the mood to convince them of the shortcomings in the presentation procedure, but, as I have four minutes, I will continue to make one more assessment. Today we should not be talking about extending extraordinary measures taken during the COVID, because, apart from its background content, it has no productive meaning that we have been discussing for two years every month or every quarter at best. It should have been possible to offer security and stability, but with such short renovations it has not been offered and, therefore, it is not now offered either. The Government should see an opportunity to provide certainty at an unprecedented time of uncertainty, such as the one we are going through and the consequences of which many sectors still bear. Apart from all that, we should not be discussing short-term measures today, as has already been said. We should not be discussing the distribution and decoration of the house, because we have in our hands the reform of the master walls. We know that for weeks and months the new system of self-employment contributions has been being negotiated and that, as announced, it will be progressive. I don't know if it sounds like you, because you've been lucky enough to defend some sort of bus with a lot of things. We will repeat this to the relevant minister. However, the timetable is pressing and, despite the fact that music would not chirify, we want to hear the lyrics; it will not be enough to rhyme, it must be discussed in Parliament, Minister, and it must be discussed in detail. This quota by tranche, although one of our main and most ancient demands, will not be approved by acclamation, because in all major reforms there is a risk that they will become a Lampedusian policy, and we will not allow the whole system to be turned upside down with the sole aim of making nothing change in substance. We are not going to accept symbolic sections that do not make any difference between those who take 3000 euros a month and those who have more than 30 000. We're not gonna play that. Similarly, we will not agree on any text that is linked to billing rather than benefits. Self-employed workers are workers and, as such, they have to be able to deduct the costs of their activity and they must be given the capacity to grow. But that's another story, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u32	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. This royal decree law, as has already been said, contains emergency measures that respond to the harsh realities that in recent times have affected many people, understanding that when material conditions are not the same the starting points for dealing with them are not the same. That is why we are talking about egalitarianism, and that is why we know, as has also been said, that we need to go to the structure, but this Government also needs to give emergency responses to the difficulties that are going through. This royal decree law continues the protection of self-employed workers, either by the pandemic or by the eruption of the volcano in La Palma, who have been severely affected by their professional activity. As I have said in this rostrum on other occasions, I wish in the previous crisis the autonomous people had seen the tenth part of these gestures, because then there was only silence; silence and an increase in VAT, it is remembered by their lords of the People's Parliamentary Group because they do not seem to remember it. A government that does this for the autonomous and autonomous not long ago, this is not little in a context like we are living in. We are at an important time linked to the reform of the special regime for self-employed women and this reform that has been called for by the collective for a long time must be urgently undertaken. It must be done in order to overcome the current shortcomings in the RETA and it must understand the scheme of fair proportionality among its central axes. This is very simple. Those who enter the most must pay proportionally more than those who enter the least. With greater proportionality, we can correct the under-financing of the RETA and, at the same time, alleviate the social cost for the most vulnerable self-employed. Let us not forget that in this country more than 1 300 000 self-employed women are either on or below the inter-branch minimum wage. The formulas can be different. In our group we propose to increase the amount of contributions in the higher income tranches and implement bonuses in the lower income tranches. But in any case, we urge the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration to listen to social organizations such as UATAE, which represent and defend the interests of self-employed workers. In addition, this royal decree continues with something that we said at the beginning of the pandemic and that we have to say whenever necessary: no eviction or cut-off of supplies to people in vulnerable situations. It is about maintaining that social shield to which some groups in this House have voted against and which has sustained, not without much personal effort on the part of citizens too, the basic seams of our society. And if we have to talk about the price escalation of energy, the measure of this royal decree is fine and is important, but here it is necessary to make a paragraph. The average electricity price between 2010 and 2020 was 42 euros megawatt/hour, but this week we have seen a rise from this figure to over 1000 %. To say that this is a real scandal is only a euphemism. Let's say what it is: a systematic and unjustified extraction of income to the population by the electric oligopoly. [[Applauds]] To argue that this increase in the price of electricity is due to the increase in the price of gas as a result of the war is to shift the focus of the real core of the problem, because in Spain electricity is produced with different technologies that have different cost structures, but everything is sold at the most expensive price. Well, this is a business: from everything I have in the store you can buy anything, which is already charged by the owner at the price of the most expensive product. The problem is that the electric oligopoly practically owns the entire network of production, distribution and sale of electricity in Spain, owns all these technologies with which it produces very cheap and sells very expensive, taking advantage of huge profit margins, billionaires; of course, at the cost of the citizen's pocket. I give you one thing: the five energy companies in our country have achieved more benefits this year than in the last ten years. Clearly there is no reasonable argument to justify this regulation of fixing the price of the electricity market, but what does exist is an enormous power, the power that the electric oligopoly has to make nothing change. These days different personalities and media are telling citizens that they also have to lower the thermostat one degree or two, which must be more energy efficient. I am more convinced of what the Secretary of State for Social Rights, Nacho Álvarez, says: that we must put an end to the fallen benefits of the electric sky. Not a single sacrifice of citizenship as long as these private privileges exist. Energy poverty is the other side of the coin of the billion-dollar benefits of electricity and energy poverty is nothing more or less than poverty. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u34	We must not ask the working class any more, we must not ask the citizenry any more, what we must ask is courage and political will to put an urgent stop to this escalation. In the time I have left, I will refer to two more issues. This royal decree also speaks of the MECUIDA Plan and two days ago the feminist movement gave us, from its diversity and power, a new transformation lesson that must be crystallized - yesterday was said here - in Congress and in the 'Official State Bulletin'; yes, in Congress and in the 'Official State Bulletin'. This same week the Minister of Equality, Irene Montero, announced the third strategic plan in which there are 20,319 million euros for equal and non-transferable permits, for the Corresponsible Plan and for public policies crossed by a feminist perspective that guarantee the right of all people to serve. And whoever ridicules this, whether by tactism to attack the United We can in the government, or by such a reactionary discourse that he cannot understand that there is a ministry that will ensure the radical equality of all people in this country, has been wrong for a century and has been wrong for a country. [[Applauds]] I'm done. He ended up talking about something that I regret was not mentioned when talking about this royal decree: the cultural workers, who are quite forgotten. We said in this rostrum that it is necessary to bet within our productive model for culture as a strategic economic sector. From here we also transfer all our support to the performing arts workers, who this month are going to mobilize for their labor rights. Let us bear in mind that our country's economy may not change - or not for good - because there is a Spanish office, but it will change a lot if we bet on the production of fiction that we are doing in our country, because it is an international reference and we must protect it in the processing of the audiovisual law that will come to this House. The aim is to guarantee for the entire working class labour rights, dignity and future. That's what this royal decree is about. This has to be government action. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Indeed, Minister, these are times of darkness and uncertainty, of fears and pre-powers, but under no circumstances should they be times of silence or complacency. We are faced with a real decree law in principle which is innocuous - I would say, patch - where the general practice of the rule is aimed at regulating labour and social security matters to which we do not object: measures for self-employed persons; measures relating to ERTs and extensions until 31 March; the extension of the MECUIDA Plan until 30 June; aid to part of the culture sector and to Taurino professionals is extended until 30 June 2022; measures are envisaged, but very short, with regard to the enterprises and workers of the Canary Islands affected by the volcanic eruption registered in the area of the Old Summit; measures for the care of minors are also regulated, and finally, different issues of the General Law on Social Security are amended. In short, it comes to alleviate deficiencies and defects of previous regulation created by you and denounced by us. But, as usual, this government, which retorts into illegality in a submissive manner, comes to the barrage of rules and adds, 'innocently','sweetly','sweetly','sweetly', the legitimacy of those who occupy private property without any title enabling it, as the rule specifically dictates - I insist, without any title enabling it - proposing to extend until 30 September 2022 the illegal occupation of housing. [[Applauds]] In addition, it is a horrendous legislative technique, Minister, horrendous and biased. Notice, on 24 February this royal decree was born and this illegal octopus was extended until 30 September 2023. However, on 2 March Law 4/2022 leaves it again on 28 February, but later in Royal Decree Law 3/2022 of 2 March, it returns to 30 September: a genuine legislative gallimatías. We must pull up again, for the government's incompetence is unheard of. We have already said this in the debate on labour reform: this government has abandoned the majority of workers, making it difficult to create jobs, obviating SMEs and the self-employed as the main drivers of the occupation in Spain. In the meantime, the Government - its Government, Mr Minister - has announced that it will allocate 21.3 billion to cross-cutting feminist policies, all of which are mandated by the 2030 Agenda. They just don't have the least decorum. [[Applauds]] We are faced with a historical record of the bill of light, which we have been reporting for months, and with gasoline at almost 2 euros/litre, and the Government announces that it will allocate 21.3 billion to cross-cutting feminist policies. There are 300,000 more long-term unemployed today than before the pandemic, more than in seventeen European Union countries together, and the Government announces that it will allocate 21.3 billion to cross-cutting feminist policies. [[Applauds]] There are 3 112 000 unemployed, 13%, the highest unemployment rate in the eurozone, the OECD and the European Union, and the government announces that it will allocate 21 300 million to cross-cutting feminist policies. The planned seizure of the self-employed is being prepared, as has been said here, with new contributions with benefits being lost, and the Government announces that it will allocate 21,300 million to cross-cutting feminist policies. [[Applauds]] In SEPE offices, they are barely able to respond, and the Government announces that 21.3 billion will be allocated to cross-cutting feminist policies. We continue with fiscal plunder, we continue with looting and we continue with inflation, and the Government announces that it will allocate €213 billion to cross-cutting feminist policies. It was the Union Solidarity alone that protested against the robbery of light and the rise of prices as early as September 2021, in the face of criticism from all of you and when still, Minister, the brave patriots of Ukraine were not assaulted and died with honor in the face of the attacks of satrap Putin. [[applause]] Their use of war, like that of the President of the Government, is spurious and miserable. [[Applauds]] Those who used to seek out class unions now will not find them, because they are subsidized and are the voice of their master. Whoever looks for the lesser evil in VOX is wrong, for we are going to find the good possible. Anyone who wants to replace sensible agreements for the benefit of Spain and the Spanish by consensus green cursis between left pejos and progress of right that lead us to suicide as a community that forgets us. [[Applauds]] He said at the beginning that they are times of darkness and uncertainty, of fears and prepotences, but under no circumstances should they be times of silence or complacency. Whoever wants a strong but small, austere, effective and agile state has 21.3 billion reasons to go out on the street on March 19 with Solidarity. [[Applauds]] Anyone who wants solidarity between Spaniards, legal certainty, private property, decent work and the rule of law has 21.3 billion reasons to go out on 19 March with Solidarity. [[Applauds]] To grow without fears, live in peace and face tomorrow with optimism there are at least 21,300 million reasons to go out on the street on March 19 with Solidarity. [[Applauds]] Under no circumstances should it be a time of silence or complacency. We do not know that in VOX, because our certainty is born, minister, of the pain for Spain and the Spanish. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u37	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Ledesma Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, one point before we start. Listening to the UN spokesman We can seem to be in opposition. That is why we in the People's Group have repeatedly asked them to throw Podemos out of the Government, because that is really the problem. [[Applauds]] We continue with the abuses of the royal decrees laws by this Government. This Government presumes dialogue and consensus, but it continues to subscribe to this format because, of course, it is more comfortable. We believe that you are stealing the powers from this House, not just the powers, but that if you bring the legislative texts as draft laws, we have essential instruments, such as the reports of the mandatory advisory bodies. I hope that this royal decree law can be processed at least as a draft law so that we can make the contributions that each parliamentary group deems appropriate and useful. This royal decree law contains different measures adopted, as always - we are already accustomed to it - at the last moment. It is agreed to extend ERTE one more month until 31 March. In addition, new quota exemptions are introduced for self-employed workers and the special termination benefit for self-employed persons affected by the suspension of the activity is extended until 30 June. The plan is also extended to take care of me; by the way, leaving the self-employed out again. But it turns out that this royal decree law is dated 22 February, that is, all these extensions so relevant to workers, businesses and self-employed people - which is the same as saying that they are fundamental to individuals and families - have been adopted six days before the deadline is over. A new agreement adopted at the last minute. Once again, days before the deadline expires, self-employed workers and businesses do not know what will happen to them the next day. I assure you, of course, that we will vote in favour of this royal decree law, because the workers, the companies and the self-employed have suffered enough and are suffering with their terrible management full of obstacles, bureaucracy and laziness, and they are not to blame. Minister, Mr Bolaños, you are committed to extending ERTE and termination benefits for self-employed workers at short notice, speeding up deadlines and at the last minute, and with the shame of selling as a triumph every further extension, even though you know that this strategy is contrary to recovery. Its strategy of short-term extensions prevents decisions from being made no longer just in the long term, but in the medium and short term, because with these ineffective policies the only thing they do is generate greater uncertainty in the labour market. Many self-employed workers and businesses do not know what will happen to them the next day. This is a selfish and irresponsible strategy on the part of this Government, which creates more discomfort for those self-employed workers, entrepreneurs and companies that are on the loose end of the labour market. Uncertainty and anguish is what his Government brings to them. They only know that the government is in a hurry to get the light, the gas, the diesel, the shopping basket, and that if an okupa enters their house they are sold, because they won't be able to get it out of there. They're unprotected. Yes, Your Honor, with this Social-Communist Government, people are unprotected and increasingly vulnerable. You live in your ministries, away from the street. But do you know what they say on the street, what I get to say many times?: Oh, my God!, where are we going to go? The People's Parliamentary Group, from the beginning of the eruption of the Old Summit volcano in La Palma, has been calling for aid through various initiatives: GNP, motions resulting from urgent calls on the Government or amendments to the general budgets of the State, which, by the way, were rejected by the Government; aid that has arrived late or has simply not arrived. We therefore welcome the follow-up and the adoption or extension of specific measures for those affected, such as the extension of ERTs, the provision and postponements for self-employed persons until 30 June and the postponements and moratoriums on the payment of contributions. Once again, however, we forget the issues that we consider very important - I told you the last time you can intervene - such as that the works are declared emergency, and also, Mr Bolaños, we forget once again questions related to the nearest administrations, such as the municipalities and the Island Cabildo de La Palma, currently suffocated by carrying out lava removal works and on the infrastructures without having received a hard one. They forget about them, about those administrations that are giving their faces; yes, they forget, Mr Bolaños. And we only ask that these aids reach those who need it, that they do not stay on wet paper, that they make it easy, that the procedures to be able to access them are simple, that they do not do as we are used to, that it is to establish such a raging process for access to any aid that is almost impossible to obtain. Another extension provided for by this Royal Decree-Law is the extension until 30 September 2022 of the suspension of eviction procedures for vulnerable persons, which ended on 28 February, but the reality is that today it is not clear, as already pointed out by a colleague, whether this extension is maintained or not, because in a subsequent law, Law 4/2022, on the protection of consumers and users, the deadline of 28 February is maintained, an error of coordination that demonstrates the poor way of legislative action of the Government that has intended to settle through a provision derogating from Law 3/2022, which in turn repeals the third provision of Law 4/2022. In short, a legislative chaos that only creates greater legal uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen, this looks like the Marx brothers' cabin. I want to end by saying that you cannot rule against the country and its people, which is what you are doing: real estate reform against property, work against employment, education against effort and equal opportunities, pensions against sustainability...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u39	Mr. Ledesma, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u40	...and market unity against trade. Listen to the opposition, be humble, assume that some ideas, which are not yours, can be valid. Don't do it for the groups of the House, do it for the millions of Spaniards we represent. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Ledesma. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Today we are debating in this House the validation of a real decree that includes measures that have to do with the social protection to which the Government committed itself in the face of the crisis caused by the COVID-19 and subsequently by the eruption of the volcano on the island of La Palma. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, while some are trying to deny the obvious, the measures taken to alleviate the catastrophic effects of the crisis we have suffered since 2020 have proved to be effective. Measures such as ERTE or self-help, among others, have shown that an unprecedented crisis can be combated in the last century by fulfilling the commitment not to leave anyone behind, that politics is useful for people and that mechanisms can be articulated to protect the working class of a country, which certainly has to go hand in hand with the recovery of economic activity. And the truth is that we have had to do this without the support of the right wing of this House, which has consistently voted against such measures in a permanent boycott exercise of the Government and therefore of the citizenry. [[Applauds]] And we're seeing it today. Beyond taking advantage of the validation of a royal decree to speak each of your books, we attend speeches that we can hardly admit and accept. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I am not going to explain to you what transversal feminist policies are because I think it would be insulting your intelligence and I at least respect all the members of this House. [[Applauds]] But you should say publicly whether you are against the wage gap, conciliation policies, the rise in pensions, which also affects women, the measures taken to combat the scourge of gender-based violence. If so, say so and don't talk about chiringuitos, because the only specialists in chiringuitos are you, and if not, ask your leader. [[Applauds]] The validation of this Royal Decree seeks to extend aid to self-employed persons and to undertakings which see themselves as having the need to continue to reduce work contracts or working days through an ERTE, not to mention workers affected by an ERTE of force majeure, temporary or by reason of impediment or limitation of the normalised activity of the undertaking, to those who benefit from improvements in the contribution allowance for unemployment by that ERTE; measures which have to do with, as the Minister has commented, the exemption in social contributions for the next four months, or as in the case of self-employed persons who have a temporary suspension of any activity as a result of the resolution of the competent authority as a measure of containment of the spread of the COVID-19 virus, who will receive an extraordinary benefit amounting to 70 % of the minimum contribution base and will also have an exemption from social security contributions, although the period will be counted as a contribution and will be compatible with income from work on behalf of others up to 1.25 times the minimum inter-professional wage. This Government has repeated this many times and is always with those who need it, and that is why it does not forget the companies and people affected by the volcanic eruption in the Old Summit area of the island of La Palma, whose suffering and uncertainty in the face of such an unexpected situation has received a response from the Government based on commitment, responsibility and solidarity with its inhabitants. Obviously, we are aware that this does not end here or today. We have said since the beginning of the eruption that we do not forget the citizenship of La Palma and that we will maintain an adaptive response, and proof of this are the measures contemplated in this royal decree, as that the specific benefit for the autonomous affected by the eruption is extended for four months. Those self-employed workers who have been obliged to suspend or cease their activity as a direct result of this event are entitled to the cessation benefit until 30 June and the special ERTE for the island of La Palma is extended until 30 June, which on 17 February already protected 804 workers. We do not want to forget - some other group has mentioned - the workers in the cultural sector, we are aware that they have also had a very bad time during this pandemic. And March is presented as a month of transition for the government to activate the RED Mechanism, with an extraordinary type of ERTE related to labor reform for sectors with special difficulties, such as the tourism sector, strongly hit by this pandemic, and is that in autonomous communities like mine, the Canary Islands, we know the ravages suffered in the tourism sector as a result of the various crises. And I would like to highlight that never before had a government taken action as quickly as it has, and I am referring to the bankruptcy of Thomas Cook, the pandemic and, of course, the eruption itself on the island of La Palma, also thanks to the management, execution and effort being made by the Canary Islands Government. I do not want to end my intervention without mentioning something of this royal decree that comes to answer a collective who knows what it is to fight daily for the best conditions for the care, nothing simple, of minors with cancer or other serious diseases. [[Applauds]] What was already recognized in the State General Budgets Act, which is the extension of the age from eighteen to twenty-three years, may be requested again. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a set of measures that pursue a single goal, social justice, while continuing to work for our country, so that we can move forward and continue to transform it despite the challenges and difficulties we face every day. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen, these measures have an ideological character, which is nothing other than putting people ahead of the partisan interests that some defend in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u44	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft law adopting urgent measures of prevention and containment to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19, stemming from Royal Decree-Law 30/2021 of 23 December. I should like to inform you that the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress has called for this bill to be enacted. That request shall be put to the vote after the amendment. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment, tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u45	Thank you, President. Today we are presenting an amendment to the whole of a way of understanding political action, an amendment to the whole of opportunism and the prevalence of propaganda on scientific evidence, an amendment to the whole to treat citizens as children and to consider that it should be protected and protected from the truth. The childishness, the construction of the narrative and postmodernism have taken a dramatic hold in Spanish politics and we have entered into an escalation of which there are beginning to be dramatic consequences. Three vices infest the bill that comes from the royal decree that brings us here today, which today is opposed by Citizens. The first of these is to mix into the same rule issues that have nothing to do with trying to twist the vote of the opposition MPs, combining a revaluation of pensions with rules on the use of masks, two matters which have no relation whatsoever. That is why the Government wanted to force this House to vote yes or no on all of these measures, that is, if they voted against the obligation to wear masks abroad, you would also vote against an increase in pensions: pensioners as a human shield, protecting government superstitions; pensioners reduced to currency by the Government of Spain. Citizens did not give in to blackmail and then opposed and we continue to oppose this rule now. The second vice of this bill is the exemption for the Government to have to return to this House if such restrictions were to be re-established, weakening the legislature once again and leaving the executive's discretion to limit rights, eliminating guarantees of citizens' freedoms. The third vice of this bill is the high propagandistic content and the zero scientific content of its main measure, the obligority of masks on the outside. When the contagion increased in the second half of December, someone from the Government decided that he had to do something. It is that priority of what appears to be the great evil of Western politics in Twitter times. To give an aesthetic handshake they announced the return of the obligatory masks on the outside. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group asked the Government at that time for scientific evidence that this measure was useful for something. We feel that once again the makeup team supplied the scientists in the management of the pandemic. The finding that the measure was clearly aesthetic is that from the validation of the standard to the removal of the mask on the outside it took a week. This is an evil that afflicts much of Spanish politics, but in this case the government had lost the battle of propaganda to the evidence of the facts. In the meetings where the Spanish political parties make decisions lately, make-up makers, writers and special effects specialists enter and leave out scientists, documentaries and technicians. In the Government, which is more dramatic, the Council of Ministers has been changed by the chamber of ministers. Spanish democracy is driven by fiction. But reality is stubborn and science is a stubborn constant. Nature in this pandemic has been the main cemetery of utopias. Most parties have the frenzy of the media times as allies and allow them to do one thing and the next week the opposite without a great cost to their credibility. They are confident that little will be remembered of the things they do, and I would like to recall here some of the actions that have been committed by all parties in this parliamentary arc during the pandemic. I want to remember, for example, when the councillors of Bildu called to cough the soldiers in the face while they disinfected the streets of the Basque Country, or insulted them from the balconies and called caceroladas in the days when we didn't know how the virus was infected or how lethal it was. I would like to remind Joan Canadell, president of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, placed there by Esquerra Republicana, who literally said at the harshest moment of the pandemic: Spain is unemployment and death, Catalonia is life and future. I would also like to recall when Torra claimed that in an independent Catalonia there would have been fewer deaths. Meanwhile, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, far from agreeing, were dedicated to pointing out the political sign of the communities according to the number of deaths that occurred in them, coming to say in one of the saddest episodes I remember during the pandemic that in Spain there were many dead because Madrid was in Spain. We could devote ourselves to infiltrating fellows disguised as nurses, psychologists, health professionals, in general, in Spanish Radiotelevision who suddenly thought totally against the management of the Community of Madrid to attack that government and say that the dead were because of the cuts. VOX went from asking the state of emergency to manifest on a bus celebrating a sort of Eurocopa on the same day that hundreds of Spaniards died. With all this background, we know that imposing the mask on the outside was the product of the same as all that I have said to you: party tactics, hatred and political strategy. [[Applauds]] Ximo Puig himself said that the mask on the outside, even if it was useless, was a symbol that the pandemic is still between us. For Puig, the symbolic, if he wants to bear memories, can hang from the neck the Declaration of the Rights of the Child to keep in mind twenty-four hours a day seven days a week that prevents the investigation of sexual abuse of minors under his Administration and the cover-up of the Puemite Monica Oltra. [[Applauds]] The sisters of Podemos didn't believe them or remember her on March 8. The 21st century is the century of instrumental causes. And I say to the government that today you can rectify all this that I am describing to you. Correct this drift, vote on this amendment as a whole and remove the mask inside today. The general rule must lead us now to be able to go face-to-face in our day to day. Pedro Sánchez said in these days that the epidemiological situation in Spain has improved and that the mandatory mask inside will be eliminated very soon. I really need the president of the government! Is the government waiting for the removal of the mask inside to serve as a smokescreen to cover something? Don't you realize that this attitude feeds the conspirators, the antivacuums and other anti-scientific purria? I am convinced that part of the drop in the percentage of booster doses of vaccination is currently related to the wear and tear of government authority. The paradigm of the discredit occurred when Minister Darias insisted on putting the second dose of Pfizer on those who had taken the first dose of AstraZeneca and the citizens came en masse to turn AstraZeneca, disdaining the minister's recommendations because they knew that they obeyed a political and non-scientific motive. This cannot happen again, because it is important that the Spanish can trust the authorities. That is why it is important that the restriction is the last ratio and, therefore, that very soon of Pedro Sánchez must become one today, one now. You can vote on it today. Eliminate the mask inside today by voting for this Citizens amendment. The restrictions are also detrimental to the economy and even to the mental health of the citizenry, who sees how nothing changes while they comply with everything. Restrictions should only be maintained when they protect something more important, and today we know that this is not the case. We have a high percentage of the vaccinated population and COVID passes at a very high percentage slightly. In addition, with this amendment, Citizens are in solidarity with other parties. We want to help the People's Party overcome an existential problem and clarify whether they vote for what Ayuso or Feijóo says, whether they remove the masks on the outside, as the Madrid president asks, or even put them in the shower, as President Feijóo asks. Scientists support this which I am telling you, and these are the last three examples of what happened yesterday: the president of the Spanish Society of Infectious Diseases and Clinical Microbiology says that the mask is removed outside, the head of Preventive Medicine of the Clinic says that the mask is removed outside and the head of Infectious Diseases of Vall d'Hebron supports the removal of the mask outside. Denmark has removed all restrictions related to the pandemic on 1 February and Norway as well, both with fewer vaccines than Spain, and I assure you that they are two countries that spend more time indoors than we are. United Kingdom on 27 January. France, on 11 February, has relaxed the use of masks. Sweden never made it mandatory. Finland only recommended it. The states of the United States that had the mandatory mask inside are eliminating it absolutely fast. In all these cases, there has been no recovery or worsening of the epidemiological situation. Pedro Sánchez's very soon must become today. You must vote here and now the removal of the mask on the outside. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, people have been vaccinated, people have fulfilled what they have been imposing on them. We must take steps towards normality. If not, they will begin to doubt and ask questions that will only find answers in conspiracy and reticence, because they find it difficult to believe that today's restrictions are based solely on propaganda, aesthetics, makeup and political clumsiness. For the last time, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have time to rectify. Abandon, truly, the policy of gestures, submit yourselves to scientific evidence. It is for this, for science, for scientific evidence, for thought illustrated, for confidence in the institutions, for regaining our freedom that I ask all the groups in this House today to vote for this amendment in its entirety and we will once and for all remove the mask on the outside as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u47	Thank you, President. If you'll allow me, I'll intervene from the seat. Mr Díaz, you have defended your position by listing three vices, and it is curious, because the first is that of mixing matters, which I believe we have repeatedly criticized by various parliamentary groups to the government. Precisely, your intervention has been a clear example of mixing barbecues with merinas in an inexplicable and absurd way, because I don't know what part of the sanatorium was missing from you. [[Applauds]] The second vice, not having to go back to Congress. However, in this vice we do not agree with you at all either. In fact, our group voted in favour of the validation of the decree law and asked to process the text as a draft law because we precisely want that empowerment given to the Executive in order to be able to decide on the basis of health indicators if the mask is put or removed can also be given to the Autonomous Communities and the health authorities. Therefore, the proposal that you are making does not seem to us to be wrong. And the third vice you pose is the zero scientific content of the star measure, that of putting on and removing masks. However, what you propose in your text is that those who decide whether or not to put on masks are the transport authorities in reference to whether or not to put on the bus, trains and so on. In our view, on a question such as this, those who must determine whether or not the mask is used are the only and only health authorities with health indicators. We will therefore vote no to your proposal for an alternative text. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u49	Thank you, President. On February 1, this House validated the Royal Decree-Law 30/2021, which established the mandatory use of the mask on the outside. That day the body asked us to vote against the validation of the royal decree-law after the blackmail of the government including in the same text a widely questioned measure, such as the obligation to wear masks outside, with the revaluation of the minimum widow's pensions and non-contributory. However, we abstained from the sense of responsibility and in order to avoid the delay in updating the lower pensions. What was our surprise when only nine days later the BOE issued a decree that eliminates the obligation to wear the mask outdoors. We recall that only a week ago Minister Darias had been defending from this rostrum the obligority of the exterior mask and that the data of the pandemic did not change so much in that time interval. In short, one more way of dizzinessing citizenship after two years of restrictions and sacrifices. With regard to the amendment to the whole with an alternative text which is under discussion, PeCAT shares the view that we are at a stage in the pandemic where the elimination of the last restrictions or measures, such as the mandatory mask inside, must be considered. As the initiative points out, other countries are already moving in this direction. However, we share part of the fund of the initiative but not the form at all. The removal of the mask in the interiors cannot be done in a homogeneous or generalistic way, since the impact of the pandemic varies in each territory. In the same way as the escalation in restrictions was heterogeneous, according to the measures that the health authority of each autonomous community considered according to its indicators, the descalation should also be so. We therefore advocate that the autonomous communities be the ones that can ultimately decide on the use of the mask, in order to accommodate it to the demographic and social characteristics of each territory. In our view, the text of the amendment to the whole further relegates the Inter-Territorial Health Council to a background with a meeting at the request of two parliamentary groups and a non-binding vote if Congress decides to end the health crisis. It is the autonomous communities that have competence in health care, primary care and, if we believe in co-governance, a measure of such magnitude cannot be taken as proposed in this text. For this reason, Guillermo, we will vote against the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u51	Thank you very much, President. I'm gonna step in from the seat. When in May 2021 the state of alarm ended and we understood from our group - from several groups - that the management and the decision passed directly to the autonomous communities, which were ultimately those who were managing and who had the competencies, we celebrated it, even assuming what this still implied in a pandemic situation and assuming the risks that this descalation entailed, but we did it taking into account that role that we had and recovering that which we had been constantly claiming in Congress, that it was the communities, with their competencies in matters of health, that they had to work. It was then commented that when there were general global approaches or generalist measures affecting the entire State, we assumed that perhaps it had to be done on the basis of a weighted consensus from the interterritorial council. So far we've got it right. What happened? Last week they brought us a decree law banning masks, totally breaking those criteria that we had proposed, and we sincerely understood that measures of descalation like these depended on the assumption and decision of each territory. The process of de-scaling is gradual and has a different impact on which territories, even in the same autonomous communities there are mountain or unpopulated sectors that are very different from the urban sectors. So, we understood it was this. We believe that that consensus was broken there. In this sense, we have already denounced in the last intervention that this royal decree did not really understand that idea that we constantly put forward, that it is the communities that manage the descalation and, therefore, we abstained, basically, because then we included a point in that decree law that affected non-contributory pensions and we believed that we could not blow this up, but basically we did not accept one subject, but we accepted the other. On this basic approach, on this structure, on those criteria, which have articulated this decree law - which for us are wrong - has been worked out and improved technically in this amendment to the whole, but on that criterion, on that basis we continue to understand that it is wrong in itself. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of the amendment of the whole, not so much for the amendment to the whole that presents Citizens, but because it is based on a decree law that does not really preserve or preserve the principles that we present: the decisions must really be made from the autonomous communities in this process of descalation, as it was configured at the time that the decree of state of alarm ended. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u53	Good morning. The Semergen and the Spanish Society of Epidemiology say it is not convenient to remove masks inside at this time. We have suffered a very serious health and social crisis due to the pandemic and it has required extraordinary measures to deal with it, extraordinary measures that the Government was able to implement - I think boldly - to avoid high mortality and the high rate of contagion in the midst of a situation of great initial uncertainty due to the lack of knowledge of the behaviour of the virus. Two preventive measures were fundamental: confinement and masks. Extraordinary measures were also essential to protect the most vulnerable: ERTEs. But when we wanted to have masks, we didn't have masks, we didn't have PPE. Something as simple as a mask suddenly became a vital and unattainable item. The deregulated market - which is the dream of all liberals, as are the citizens' deputies - was passing us the bill. We didn't make a mask because it was cheaper to produce it in countries with very low wages. Suddenly and thanks to corporate policies of maximum benefit, we had a total dependence on simple products, and that was costing us our lives. The pandemic has demonstrated the need for industrial sovereignty, something that We Can Union has always claimed. [[Applauds]] We were immersed in a pandemic without specific treatment or vaccine. Confinement and masks were key to slowing the progression of the virus and lowering the R0 index. Despite the lack of strategic material, which was impossible to achieve quickly, the professionals of the National Health System, so damaged by the policies of the PP, behaved as heroes and heroines and resisted, and have saved many lives. What did the Right do in each of the interventions in this Congress and in the Health Commission? Attack and attack the Government. The right-wing side knew that the Carlos III Institute, through MoMo, and the National Institute of Statistics published all available data, but said that the Government was concealing data. The right was gravitational - in its usual political line - not to attack the pandemic, but to attack the government. This amendment today is another example of the usefulness of some political actions. Containment measures and masks have proven to be efficient in preventing contagion and thereby protecting people's lives and safeguarding our health services before vaccinations are available. But these measures remain effective now that 90% of the population is vaccinated. Variants of COVID continue to challenge our health, which can continue to appear and spread because people in poor countries are not vaccinated because they cannot afford it. And do you know who is opposed to patenting in order to be able to vaccinate poor countries? The right and, among them, Citizens. [[Applauds]] Another point addressed in the draft law was the shortage of health personnel. The PP governments stopped studying the needs of the National Health System because they wanted to privatize the system. This lack of forecasting has now led us to have to allow for the recruitment of specialists who are not members of the European Union or to have to allow the recruitment of medical and nursing professionals already retired for care activities. We warn the Ministry of Health that we know exactly what primary care needs are. Public health, in particular human resources, needs to be strengthened; that is what we need. Decent contracts must be made that allow medical and nursing professionals, who went abroad looking for a job security that they could not get here, to return. We need to strengthen primary care with real measures, not words. [[The Lord]] Citizens make a special emphasis on questioning the mandatory mask. It's like doing something illegal, and they're not raising it on scientific issues. It is one more element in your determination - not to call it anything else - to attack the government and that the United We can disappear, right? Citizens are on perpetual watch to see if they have a chance; they remember that vision they wanted to be caliph instead of caliph. It is an amendment to the whole that Citizens justify with only one question: the masks. Too bad. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u54	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jara Moreno has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are here today to discuss the amendment to the whole of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group's bill on urgent prevention and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19. As we discussed on 1 February, blackmail seemed to us to be the real decree law and its validation, and blackmail in substance and in form seems to us today to be the debate of this amendment to the whole presented by the Citizens' Group. [[Applauds]] To talk about health restrictions and masks, do they force us to treat pensions again? If they had proposed deleting this point, which should be incorporated by its importance in another initiative and not in the health framework of preventive measures against COVID, we could start talking. We say no to blackmail, but we do not say no to pensioners; on the contrary, we must again oppose their debate now, since it is absolutely inappropriate and a practice too common and repeated in this Government to mix matters that have nothing to do with each other to force us to vote for the whole thing on the side. [[Applauds]] I repeat it again as a few weeks ago: Ortega Lara's party does not allow blackmail. [[Applauds]] With regard to the amendment of Law 2/2021, the removal of the restrictions imposed by the Government was shared, but it was constitutionally unacceptable for Citizens to transfer to the Congress of Deputies the competence of the declaration of the end of the crisis generated by COVID-19. It is the responsibility of the Government, which already abdicated, transferring its responsibility to the autonomous communities. I take this opportunity to give our opinion on how we should reintegrate into normality. The Government should at this time only issue recommendations and not impose any more obligations or, of course, additional restrictions, since the scientific evidence, the flow of this last wave and the management of the countries in our environment have already highlighted that they serve no purpose. I repeat, they can recommend it, but they must not force it. [[Applauds]] The restrictive measures imposed have led to the destruction of a multitude of people and small businesses, who have also been unable to access the aid announced by the Executive in the form of drums and plates because in daily practice the bureaucracy has prevented them from accessing them. The ineffectiveness of prohibitions and the high level of injury to citizens in general and to workers in particular have already been demonstrated. [[Applauds]] To the catastrophe of the Chinese plague is added the Russian war and the inefficiency of the'sanchocommunist' government, which is a constant. [[Applauds]] If we analyze this last wave in which we are still sailing, we can see that, although the severity has decreased with vaccination, the number of infected has been so high that, although the percentage of serious patients over the total number has decreased in absolute numbers, the special services of the hospitals have again collapsed. Let's not be fooled, we're still in trouble. Obligatory masks inside, outside and interpersonal distance do not seem to have the effectiveness that should be with regard to the containment of the disease. For this reason, many countries in our environment are beginning to dispense with them, for either we die of COVID or we die of hunger, aided by the measures imposed by this Government. Given that the pandemic situation has no near end and that we already have experience of what the measures taken so far have given us, it may be time to change course and choose to equip citizens with knowledge so that everyone can protect their health and economy by making their decisions freely. [[Applauds]] In short, in VOX we advocate for the truthful information to the Spaniards, without any limitation. We must be treated as responsible adults. We need to educate ourselves in healthy lifestyles and we need to be trained to avoid infectious respiratory diseases, such as COVID, flu, tuberculosis, pneumonia and those that come. Thirdly, and with regard to retired healthcare professionals, we reiterate here our concern that the increase in their income has a negative impact on their taxation. They must consider that their extra wage is taxed at the minimum rate, in order to make up for them and not to be taxed, with which the Government would be benefiting, in addition to its work, from its income. [[Applauds]] Ultimately, and with regard to the recruitment of foreign health care workers, it should be noted that the completion of this sixth wave makes it less urgent to rush into the recruitment of professionals, and what we should do is to speed up the approval process, especially in the case of Ukrainian health care workers. [[Applauds]] These professionals must have the same responsibilities as regular workers, without requiring supervision by their peers. If this were not the case, comparative grievances could arise in terms of remuneration and functions, and all this could lead to job tensions for the optional staff. Think, if doctors no longer have time to properly care for patients, there is even less time for the care or supervision of the work of other colleagues and the same happens in other professional categories. In short, while we share the vision of removing the restrictions and prohibitions imposed by the Government, which can and must now establish properly informed recommendations, we will vote against this amendment because the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has not had the courage to propose the withdrawal of pensions in its quest for survival, approaching the dynamics of the Government. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] Mr Vice-President: Thank you. [[Rodriguez Gómez de Celis]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Pastor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker should disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to express once again my sense of remembrance to the victims of COVID and their families and, also, my thanks to all the professionals and public servants who have undoubtedly done exceptional work. [[Applauds]] And, of course, today all our memories, that of my parliamentary group, for all families, for all Ukrainians, for that atrocious attack on that child's hospital. All our memory, all our support and all our solidarity in this unjust war. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an amendment which, with all due respect, I believe suffers from errors of form and substance which, moreover, are not the same as a parliamentary group which has in its ranks well-known jurists. There are too many technical and legal problems there, which leads me to think that the only possible criterion is that of media opportunity. Looks like they want to take off Mr. Sanchez today. The plenary should be seriously addressing the creation of legal instruments in the field of public health that we still lack that can help us fight the pandemic or any health crisis, and this need has become even greater since the Constitutional Court declared the two states of alarm unconstitutional. I'm going in parts. Firstly, your amendment to the whole, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, invades aspects of the regulation of the parliamentary procedure, which may violate the regulatory autonomy enjoyed by this House. Its text contains a procedure never seen, ex novo. Leo: Congress, at the request of two parliamentary groups, will hold a vote on the declaration of the end of the health crisis, the approval of which will have the same effect as that issued by the Government. That is to say, your amendment says that, whenever requested by two groups, it will be placed on the agenda of the plenary and a statement will be voted on. It is assumed that this will have to be qualified by the Bureau, that the Board of Spokesmen will have to give the deal to only two groups and, above all, will have to request reports via Article 7. Can you please explain to me what legal nature the declaration would have? Would that be a bill? Would that be a non-legislative proposition? Would it be a motion of interpellation? And what legal effects would it have, which is what draws my attention most? Look, you regulate aspects that are specific to the framework of the parliamentary regulation. All these proceedings fall within the scope of the Rules, as the Constitutional Court has acknowledged, both legitimation and, as well as not, the session in which the reports requested by Article 7 or Article 54 of the Rules are included in the proceedings. Secondly, in their explanatory statement they seek to confer on Congress and not only on the Government the power to declare the end of the crisis situation. However, I ask you: Is it clear from the wording of Article 2.4 of the amendment that Parliament's vote is added as an extra requirement? Is the vote in Congress a substitute for the government's statement by royal decree? Does ratification in the plenary session of Congress have the same effects as the declaration adopted by Congress? Not specifically specified in the article which, if put to the vote, excludes the need for a declaration by the Government, could have an adverse effect, two different acts at different times with identical effects. We therefore believe that this amendment leads to contradictions and creates more legal uncertainty than we have. Ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, I am surprised by the concern that citizens now have about amending Article 2 of this bill, when you are in many cases supporting the Government. I am especially recalling, with this same article and the same wording, the Royal Decree Law 21/2020, that Mr Bal praised the Government. It said: We have to recognize that we have been given the opportunity to participate in its preparation and drafting as a bill. And I kept going. Fortunately, you didn't change then or ask for the 2, you went from 2 meters away to a meter and a half. Why now, Mr. Díaz? And what about the masks? This, too, is the prize for incoherence. Look, you, just a month ago, in the debate in this validation chamber, said that scientific reports are needed to remove or put on masks. I then reminded him - indeed, I always support him - that these decisions have to be based on scientific reports. And now why not? Now you make a decision, but I'm sure you won't be like Mr. Sánchez, you'll have scientific-technical reports. By the way, review the preamble, because the Spanish Society of Pediatrics has not said what you say; it has not said that already, but when the epidemiological situation permits. In short, we in my group believe that this amendment as a whole should not go ahead, because it violates regulatory autonomy, because it involves inconsistencies and contradictions, because it seems to be motivated by a media interest, as if you, Mr Díaz, were put before Mr Sánchez, and because it does not bring anything new to the management of the pandemic and creates legal uncertainty. And we reject this amendment because we understand that we continue to have an outstanding subject in this Congress. We continue to have a real regulation of what a pandemic means and what it means to have instruments for the State to deal with that pandemic. We have brought him here on some occasions, we reiterate it and we continue to insist that the courts of justice, the Supreme, the Council of State, the autonomous communities and the experts have given us reason. We'll get back to it. This country needs a legal order that gives citizens special security and, above all, protects their rights, freedoms and empowers the State to ensure their health. Every new initiative that comes out of the government - or in this case of you, Citizens - shows us even more that we were right, that we are right, that we have to adopt a real specific, precise regulation and that it gives us security in order to face new pandemic situations or public health crises that can occur in the future that I hope will not be so. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u57	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u58	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin with a recognition of the health and health workers in Ukraine who are carrying out their task at this atrocious, tragic and terrible time. Ladies and gentlemen, for them and they, I would like from here to applaud. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, today we are being debated on a comprehensive amendment to the draft law that takes urgent preventive and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by COVID, an amendment that is more than opportunistic. And listening to you, Mr Díaz, I say it again, opportunistic, because you disguise, perhaps with regard to the recent Introduction, an amendment to the whole that is not really, something that could well be described as political filibusterism, Mr Díaz. [[Applauds]] Or is it, Mr. Díaz, that what you are looking for is more political protagonism? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today, as you know, comes from Royal Decree Law 30/2021. This decree responds to the epidemiological situation that generated the sixth wave derived from the omicron variant and its high prevalence. This sixth wave posed a new challenge in the context of the pandemic in Spain and the world. We have faced this challenge in better conditions and with appropriate tools, especially with vaccination as the main weapon, because, yes, ladies and gentlemen, the vaccination strategy and high vaccination coverage have made it possible to reduce the severity and lethality of the disease, first of all protecting the most vulnerable, and we must put this into value all over again, because we have 91.1% of the population vaccinated on a full-time basis and now more than 80% of those over 50 have the third booster dose; because, yes, Mr Steegmann, the data are published. Ladies and gentlemen, this sixth wave has accounted for seven times as many cases as the previous waves, but it is having the lowest lethality of the entire pandemic and, moreover, the epidemiological situation at this time is fortunately very different, with a cumulative incidence of less than 500 cases to 14 days. According to the last report, it is 472.15, which places us among the European countries with a lower incidence. A question which, said with all prudence, allows us to contemplate a horizon of hope. Let us see, Mr Díaz, how I say it: your amendment to the whole breaks with all the consensus established so far, both those brought by science and those derived from a co-governance that has come to stay; indeed, a consensus with which you agreed. [[Mr. Díaz Gomez takes his hands to his head]] Precisely, in the management of the pandemic and in the vaccination process, it has been shown that the central role of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System and co-governance is the way forward. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I repeat, your amendment to the whole is not justified as such, because, in good parliamentary logic, it will be treated as amendments to the joint text at its appropriate stage, which is the presentation phase, as you are well aware, but what you do, on the contrary, is to present an amendment to the whole by calling into question the whole procedure, questioning decisions that were taken in a context of co-governance. First of all, Mr Díaz, you want to move forward with a measure that must be done with all rigour. A measure such as that of ending the health crisis cannot put the governments of the autonomous communities in the background. Or do you not trust the autonomous communities where you support or support governments? [[Applauds]] You, in an irresponsible way - I say this with all my respect - intend to advance a debate which is, as the Minister has heard, in the process of evaluation. I will repeat to you the exact words of the minister, who seems that you did not hear with due attention: Assessment process on the possible modification of the current strategies, which has already been initiated at the technical level, of expert persons, those that make up the Alerts of the interterritorial council, with the aim of determining the best options to face up to a pandemic disease that, little by little, is acquiring characteristics of endemic. It serves as an example of today's meeting, now in Zaragoza, of the ministry with the autonomous communities on public health surveillance. There is no doubt, therefore, that your amendment is more opportunistic than timely. Mr Díaz, you speak of cosmetic criteria in your amendment. Listen, for cosmetic criteria yours on the use of masks. Let me tell you that for us the Government's decision, endorsed within the inter-territorial council and based on the scientific-technical criterion, is more valuable, which is why we cannot share an amendment to the whole that is not supported, and you know it, Mr Díaz. Stop playing to confuse the citizenry, which is being exemplary. Let go of fallacious arguments, let go of political propaganda, which resembles a more right-wing discourse and pay more attention to the measures that the Ministry of Health is implementing, such as the Primary and Community Care Plan 2022-2023, anchored in the strategic framework. This plan is endowed with the finalist item of 173 million euros, plus 230 million euros. By the way, items that you voted on not, like the rest of the budget. And you know why I'm telling you? I say this to you - and pay attention to me, Mr Díaz - because they include in the justification of your initiative issues such as that of primary education, which is already being worked out and agreed with the Autonomous Communities. These measures are useful policies. I would ask the rest of the right-wing people - you too, Mr Díaz - to respect loyalty and responsibility to Spain and to your Government. Take your shoulder and add to the work of the Government in the recovery of our country, in the recovery of Spain, following the severe crisis that the pandemic has brought in our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u60	We move on to the debate on the entire Bill on the Right to Housing. I should like to inform you that the Republican and Plural parliamentary groups have requested the enactment of this bill. These requests shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendments as a whole. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u61	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the plenary of this House on the occasion of the debate on the whole of the draft law on the right to housing. This is a legislative initiative that is key to our Government because it will provide a necessary response to many families and young people in accessing decent and adequate housing. The text adopted in the Council of Ministers was the result of months of intense work. That is why, first of all, I would like to thank the United Nations, and in particular Minister Belarus, who is here today, for her willingness to cooperate, contributions and capacity for dialogue in the previous process that has brought us here in the coalition government. Housing is where our history begins; our history as a civilized species and our personal history, that of each of us. Also in our personal memory the house plays a central role, for our first memories, those of our parents, mothers and brothers, for our first children's games. Our home, our home, is always a place of reference. But for too many people in our country those memories, that evocation of lost time is not only associated with friendly memories, but also associated with moments of uncertainty and anxiety; the anxiety of not being able to pay the rent or the letter of the mortgage at the end of the month, the anxiety of fear of being evicted, without having another place to live, or the anxiety of not having sufficient resources to emancipate. If housing is a prerequisite for our development as individuals and as citizens, however, it is, according to many sociological and psychological studies, one of the most determining causes of social exclusion and personal collapse. I believe that we can extend this social exclusion effect not only to the lack of housing, but also to the lack of housing that meets the minimum requirements of habitability and accessibility that allow it to be considered a decent dwelling. For this Government to respond to such situations of homelessness is much more than a generic constitutional mandate; it is one of the greatest commitments and, therefore, it is also one of our greatest challenges. In order to better understand the measures that we want to introduce with this law, I think it is advisable to take a brief tour of the characteristics and circumstances that have shaped the housing sector in Spain in recent decades. Only with a good diagnosis can we start effective therapies. The modern profiles of the housing sector began to be drawn in Spain in the 1960s. After the Stabilization Plan of 1959, between 1960 and 1974 there was a great economic expansion and intense growth due to the process of industrialization, the low energy price, the availability of a cheap labour force without trade union protection and the strong economic development that was taking place in Europe. This led to a qualitative leap in our foreign trade, along with a very important foreign exchange entry through tourism and remittances from emigration. That was also the time of economic and social development plans, which, inter alia, included housing forecasts to provide the country with a sufficient housing stock to meet the needs of population growth and rural population movements to cities. The option of converting the construction of housing into the engine of our economy was also outlined, an option that has been maintained over time and has been one of the most defining characteristics of the sector in Spain. In just fourteen years a greater number of dwellings per capita were built in Spain than had been built in Europe over a period of more than thirty years. But this was done without mere demands regarding the quality of the park that was being built, subordinated the urbanism to the production of the urbanized soil by the law of the soil of 1956 and its successive reforms and ignoring any consideration on the environmental impact or energy consumption. A lot of subsidized housing was built, yes, but it was a house exclusively for purchase. As a result of this orientation, the contrast between the situation of Spain and that of the countries of central and northern Europe was evident in the final years of the dictatorship and in the transitional period. Spain had been among the ten nations of the world with the highest percentage of homeowners, but Spain did not have a social housing park that could meet the needs of the most disadvantaged. Thus this contradiction was forged, this dualism that has characterized the sector in Spain: small owners together with a large part of the population, the one that has fewer resources, that lacks the means to access the property and that, in the absence of a social housing park, is being excluded from access to a decent housing. With the adoption of our Constitution and the consecration of the social and democratic State of law, it seemed to be a change in the political consideration that housing inherited from Francoism by proclaiming in article 47 the right of all Spaniards to enjoy decent and adequate housing and by including it as one of the guiding principles of social and economic policy. However, further development did not confirm those expectations, as economic constraints continued to be imposed, and when it became urgent to seek a revival of activity, the governments were again betting on the boost of residential construction as an engine of the economy. Thus, we find that the current tenure regime remains similar to that of 1978, with 75% of houses owned, 22% of owners paying mortgages and around 20% of households living on rent, of which only 2% benefit from a social rental, and with an increasing number of people living in rented rooms on shared floors, which has become one of the modern forms of manifestation of residential exclusion. If we have to evaluate this model of development of the housing sector, I think we could say that it has had its lights and shadows. Among the lights, its contribution to the consolidation of an important social base of middle classes and its relevance to employment generation, as construction is an intensive activity in the labour factor, and has also been an important resource for the development of the financial sector and a main source of funding for many local governments. However, among the shadows of the model, housing has become the object of accumulation and speculation, which has led to episodes and periods of accused enrichment, accentuating the phenomena of exclusion and the impossibility of access to decent housing for the population sectors with lower levels of income. This exclusion has been shown to be most crude in times of crisis, and especially in the wake of the financial crisis that began in 2008, with its well-known throng of evictions, sinogarism, family over-indebtedness, destruction of employment and readjustments to our financial system. That crisis, from which we were barely recovering, could have been reproduced and aggravated on the occasion of the COVID-19 pandemic; however, today we can say that, fortunately, it has not been so. And that has not been the case thanks to the social shield that this Government has deployed from the very beginning to prevent the new crisis from again targeting the most vulnerable. Precisely, a recent report by the General Council of the Judiciary indicates that the Spanish courts registered 23% less evictions from homes last year than in 2019, before the pandemic began. And if the short-term measures deployed in response to the pandemic have taken effect, now is the time to move on to more structural measures that will entail an effective change in the orientation of dominant housing policies over the last decades, shifting the centre of gravity of their orientation towards the inclusion of those with lower levels of income, so that they too can realize the right of access to decent housing. That is precisely the fundamental object of the bill that we are presenting in this House today. We want this bill to recognize housing as the fifth pillar of the welfare state, guaranteeing rights, as well as measures that allow access to decent and adequate housing. [[applause]] To achieve this objective, the chosen route is to achieve a sufficient supply of affordable rental housing, which is the route that has been followed in our European environment. And to achieve this the law seeks both the growth of public parks of social housing and the stimulation of supply in the private market. What tools do we have for this? We have the tools that have been used in other European countries: fiscal measures, favourable regulation of urban leases and land tenure, and, of course, a significant level of public investment, with direct support for people with fewer resources. From the State we need to facilitate the action of autonomous communities and municipalities by establishing that favourable fiscal and regulatory framework, consolidating the competitive framework and guaranteeing constitutional rights and duties. For all these reasons, we from the Government have adopted, in compliance with our commitment, this Bill for the Right to Housing. With this law we want to ensure and strengthen, I insist, the fifth pillar of the welfare state, which is a milestone in the history of democracy, because it is the first state law in this period that develops the constitutional right to decent and adequate housing. As detailed below, the aim of the legislative text is to satisfy the housing needs of the most disadvantaged groups, in situations of vulnerability or social exclusion and, in general, of all those who have difficulty in accessing housing on the market, such as young people. We want our housing policies to serve to ensure a useful response, governing for and by citizens for access to that decent and adequate housing, especially - I insist - for those who need it most. Other governments have looked elsewhere when the land was liberalized, the public housing park was sold, budgets were systematically cut, evictions increased and the most vulnerable remained unprotected. We're not like that. This Government believes in the social role of property, the importance of rescuing people, public policies, cooperation and cooperation between administrations and the recognition of the right to decent and adequate housing, which is the ultimate object of this bill. I will go on to describe the most relevant aspects of this bill. Firstly, I would like to talk about promoting the development of public parks for social housing. The bill sets out general premises on its legal regime to ensure its development, protection and sufficiency to care for the population with greater access difficulties. Spain has hardly any social housing for every hundred inhabitants today, far from the four mediations that the European Union has. Similarly, the social housing stock in Spain is, according to the most favourable estimates, 2.5 % of the total number of existing housing units, while the average for the European Union is 9,3 %, in addition to a park with significant maintenance, conservation and renovation deficiencies. This has also led us to include this law for the right to housing as one of the reforms to be implemented under component 2 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, a component for which funding of a total of 6820 million euros is planned. Issues of concern to us in the construction of social housing include land legislation, land management and urban planning instruments, as well as land reserves for sheltered housing. These are all issues in which we have the will to move forward in coordination and cooperation with all public administrations, always respecting the competitive housing framework, but allowing solutions that guarantee the right to decent and adequate housing. The social housing park for rent of public, autonomous or municipal ownership is made up of 290 000 dwellings, which contrasts with the close to 2.5 million protected dwellings that were built only between 1981 and 2019. This is a clear indication that the protected housing has been built in Spain in order to dedicate it to the sale, with very little weight the promotion of public housing intended for rent. But this is also the result of the limited defence that has been made of this public investment, with absolutely scandalous cases, such as the sale of social housing blocks to speculative funds, and other less apparent ones, such as the progressive cut-off of the originally set deadlines for the maintenance of these housing units under the initially allocated protection regime. In order to prevent the recurrence of such situations in the future, the draft law must establish mechanisms for cooperation with the local and autonomous administrations, so that the protection regime for housing located on land intended for the planning of the construction of protected housing and within the framework of its competence is of a permanent nature, and its disqualification is not possible. It is also necessary that, if located in another type of soil, the autonomous rules may establish causes and time limits for disqualification, which in no case may be less than thirty years. In addition, in the case of sale of these dwellings, the corresponding rights of tanteo and retraction should be established. Secondly, if the measures envisaged in the draft law for the expansion of public housing parks revolve around land legislation, the measures for promoting affordable rent in the free market do so on tax legislation and on urban lease legislation itself, seeking, first and foremost, the agreement and mutual interest of tenants and tenants. Without prejudice to this, the law empowers the autonomous communities to take more intensive measures in cases where chronic situations are detected in high-priced residential areas where large housing holders may be carrying out market distortion through retention or speculation. Thus, the tax measures envisaged affect reductions in the IRPF, which benefit owners who rent their homes. Also in the area of taxation, the draft provides for the possibility for municipalities to establish certain charges in the tax on immovable property in the case of permanently unoccupied buildings, without the possibility of considering within this category dwellings intended for second residence or empty dwellings for unjustified reasons. With regard to the much debated question of the limitations of price increases and the duration of contracts in residential areas that are declared to be strained, the draft law provides for the possibility of additional extensions for existing contracts and, also, for new contracts, provides for the price of the new contract to be established from the last price of the previous contract, with appropriate updates. In the case of dwellings located in these stressed areas, which belong to large holders of legal persons, the income agreed in the new contracts may not exceed the price ceiling applicable under the system of reference price indices. For this purpose, large holders of legal persons shall be considered to be holders of more than ten urban buildings, excluding garages and storage rooms, or of a constructed area of more than 1500 square metres. I think it is important to insist that the initiative and capacity for the declaration of areas with tight rental prices and, therefore, the application of the limitations set out above will be the responsibility of each autonomous community, which is another example of our respect for the distribution of competences between administrations. I believe that it is also necessary to insist that these limitations are designed in response to exceptional situations, where rent prices are being distorted. They are distortions to which the Administration must be able to react in some way, just as it reacts to other cases of market dispersion due to retention or speculation with essential goods. For these limitations, the law also provides for a limited period of time. Nothing to do, therefore, with some of the criticisms that the draft legislation has suffered. Far from all this, we are faced with very limited measures which maintain an adequate proportion of the means employed and the social purpose pursued. In addition to the fiscal and regulatory measures to which I referred, the draft law also provides for other provisions to facilitate the exchange and exchange of information between all the competent administrations, such as the creation of a register of housing lease contracts and the development of a system of reference price indices for rents. Thirdly and lastly, I must point out that it must also be the objective of all to strengthen the security and protection of citizens in this area, both general protection for all owners and tenants and specific protection for the most vulnerable groups. Our concern is to ensure decent and affordable housing, avoiding infra-housing and giving greater protection to those who are going to enter into a contract. In addition, we must strengthen protection measures for the most vulnerable, marking the obligation for all public administrations to give priority attention to people living in particularly degraded and segregated settlements or neighbourhoods, as well as those suffering from situations of sinhogarism. In the procedural field, the connection between judicial proceedings involving the launching of vulnerable persons or families and the corresponding social services is strengthened so that alternative accommodation solutions can be found for them. We are aware that the full realization of this protection for the most vulnerable will not be achieved until Spain has an affordable housing supply that is sufficient to guarantee housing for young people, the unemployed and all those who cannot access it. This law is called to be the engine that, together with the action of the autonomous communities and the municipalities, will lead us to this desired goal. In view of all these reasons, the Government considers that it is not appropriate to accept the various amendments to the full refund submitted. On the other hand, I would like to thank the Republican Parliamentary Group for its efforts in submitting an amendment to the entire alternative text. This amendment attests that it is more what unites us than what separates us. In this sense, they have our commitment that the text resulting from the draft housing law that is being processed in this Congress will be respectful of the competition titles defined in the Spanish Constitution, with the exclusive competence that the autonomous communities have in the matter of housing and with the competences contained in the statutes of autonomy and, therefore, also in those of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. And of course the housing law will be agreed with the progressive forces, among them the Republican Left of Catalonia. That is why we are asking the parliamentary groups for the necessary support to continue the parliamentary process of this bill, which will undoubtedly be enriched by the amendments to the articles which they present and which are adopted. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Our priorities in the policies we are carrying out are for and for our citizens, and in this case so that for the first time the housing can be the fifth pillar of the welfare state. [[Applauds]] We have drafted a text with legal credit and we want to reinforce it with the contributions of all, respecting the Constitution and without implying any violation of its articles or the competences - I insist - of the autonomous communities and municipalities. It has been arduous, scrupulous, highly debated and consensual work with the social partners, with the whole sector. A number of working tables have been held, all comments submitted have been received and studied, and have been submitted to the report of all ministries and have been adjusted to the law. In this sense, I am convinced that from now on the legislature will do a good job. I urge all political forces to the maximum possible consensus and to join this rule, because this will provide a necessary response, which is even an emergency for many families and young people to have access to decent and adequate housing. I would like the text to be strengthened in this parliamentary procedure, not only in the area of competence but also in guaranteeing rights; a text that follows the line of consensus, of reaching good agreements and understandings, all of which are flexible in order to achieve them, so that we can feel comfortable. We need to get this bill moving and we can finally pass a law that will benefit everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u62	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Five amendments to the full refund and one amendment to the entire alternative text have been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendments tabled, I have the floor, first of all, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u63	Eguerdi on, good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My group, the Basque Nationalist Group, the party that supports it and the institutions where we govern, are very aware of the problem of housing. [[Rumors]] We are very aware of their offer; of their quality; of the inadequacy of the housing supply and its consequences; of the shortage of rental prices which mainly affects young people, which prevents them from being able to live in emancipation projects; of the poor supply of housing in conditions and accessible for the elderly or also of those which affect disadvantaged sectors, socially and economically, which will hardly be able to meet this right, if not with specific policies aimed at meeting these housing needs. We are aware of all this and have always been committed to taking measures to alleviate that situation. Although, our way of acting has been to do and not talk so much. The policies, where we have ruled, have been to translate rights and powers into specific rules that are translated into concrete laws: in Euskadi, Law 3/2015 and in Navarra, Law 10/2010 for the right to housing. Law 3/2015 of the Basque Country specifies some of these characteristics and rights. It points out, first, the social role of housing - it defines what is the subjective right to housing -; planning, including, inter alia, the permanent classification of housing of public protection or public concern; the commitment that all housing that is to be implemented in Euskadi will be intended for rent; the legal regime for public protection housing and endowment housing, and the rules governing its award and promotion; the characterization of uninhabited housing, infra-habitat and over-occupied housing, and others that abound in the direction of own policies, which are also exercised by certain milestones. There is a public housing park, a public housing park also for rent; the boost of measures aimed at promoting the emancipation of young people through the reservation of a percentage of public promotion housing to that collective; the reserve of land also intended for that collective, with support for its promotion and up to twenty-nine years; housing alternatives; a specific plan for older people in collaboration with social services, cooperation between municipalities and outlaws; measures to promote the rehabilitation of buildings and the removal of housing barriers; improvements in accessibility or energy efficiency, etc. Many - you will not say all - of the measures envisaged in this bill, Minister, are already covered by the rules that exist in Euskadi. And we have done so for a reason, because we have always understood that housing policies in Euskadi, and for Euskadi, are decided in Euskadi. We said in the justification of our amendment to the whole that autonomous housing policies, in addition to trying to facilitate access to decent housing for persons in need - which is a primary constitutional objective, according to articles 9.2 and 47 of the Constitution - are related to social and economic protection for the family - article 39.1 of the Constitution -, youth - article 48 -, the third age - article 50 of the Constitution -, persons with disabilities - article 49 of the Constitution - and returned emigrants - article 42 -, while also being an important pole of economic promotion linked to construction, and not only as a factor of economic development but also as a creator of employment - article 40.1 of the Constitution -. That is why we understand, as the report of the General Council of the Judiciary has also done - and I stress this - that housing is a matter of autonomous ownership, which means that the core of its regulation and public policies aimed at implementing the right of article 47 belongs to each of the autonomous communities, which will exercise their powers - and I stress this - in accordance with the majority political orientation in them. This has been achieved in virtually all communities: Aragon, Catalonia, Extremadura, Murcia, Valencia, Navarre, Andalusia, the Canary Islands, and I have also cited Euskadi. The Constitutional Court has also stated that, without prejudice to admitting the presence of titles conferring State jurisdiction that affect housing - which are essentially 149.1.1a and 149.1.13.a, and also articles 149.1.8.a,149.1.6.a and 149.1.14.a - has defined them as constitutional parameters, in order to distinguish them expressly from other constitutional titles, which are that of the property right of article 33 and that of the enjoyment of a decent and sufficient housing of article 47 of the Constitution, and thus the one mainly affected by 149.1.1.a are the conditions on the primary content of the right to property, and yet cannot exhaust the freedom of configuration of the autonomic legislator - according to a judgement of the Constitutional Court -. In short, what has come to manifest a repeated doctrine of the Constitutional Court - and so it is - is that this Congress is not empowered to proceed with a standardization of the autonomous legislative policies in the field of housing, precisely because the Constitution has guaranteed the normative diversity and, thus, the autonomous legislative power, incorporating into the constitutional model the diverse political action. Are the measures provided for in this law identical to those of the Basque Housing Act? No, no, Are they those of other autonomous communities? Neither. Should they be? As you say in this bill, yes, and we say no. One thing is that the State can dictate rules that can serve as a parameter for the constitutionality of autonomous rules from the point of view of guaranteeing all citizens equal access to all public services - also in the area of the right to enjoy decent housing - but other than such a power or function to which the constitutional norm entitles it allows it to influence in the material field the competences that the autonomous communities may exercise in the field of housing. Similarly, it does not appear that the exercise of powers in accordance with 149.1.1.a - the title drawn up in order to regulate the basic legal regime of the right to property of a dwelling - is appropriate when it is intended to affect the guarantee of the right to decent housing, which is referred to in article 47 of the Constitution, since its content is not directed to the development or protection of such a right to decent housing, and not even to the one described also in the statement of the social function of housing - which could be possible with basic features - but to the configuration in a way, we understand, confused, unsystematic and alien to its legal tradition of a kind of new legal status of property when housing is concerned, including even a contradictory characterization of rights and duties or powers, in an indistinct way, of both property and owner. In our view, this is a legal characterization, not only confusing but inadequate, and that aside from the reference to procedural legislation, which, contrary to its object - the tuitious, guaranteeing character of such legislation - comes precisely from elements contrary to the guarantees it must seek. Is it not for the government, or is it not for us as legislators, that citizenship is already endowed with these regulatory frameworks? Or is it also a question of regulating from the State, even if what is regulated by the autonomous communities is good, legal, effective, proportional and the legislator is not the State? Is it the purpose of the state legislature to make this regulation? It doesn't make sense. In our case, moreover, it happens that among the budgetary commitments existing in the Basque Country for the year 2022, and in relation to the budget, signed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and EHBildu is that of the impulse of measures that allow to establish a system of control of private rental prices adapted to the specificities of the Basque reality. That is, we would only lack a small regulatory umbrella that would allow us to regulate our own in Euskadi and by the Basque Parliament the prices of the lease. However, what this bill envisages is such a comprehensive regulation of price containment measures in the regulation of rental contracts, which, far from the will of the Basque Parliament, and far from the agreement signed by the parties that make up it and by EH Bildu, directly affects the competences of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This is another abuse that encloses the powers of the Basque legislator to establish, in accordance with the existing majority political orientation - I repeat - policies of their own adapted to the reality of each territory. That was, in fact, the only measure of intervention we expected from the State and has been far exceeded, which I imagine will also lead the rest of the parties that participated in this agreement to support this initiative, isn't it? Because otherwise we would return to the same perverse game that, by cheating on the democratic board and allowing the central powers to legislate in accordance with concrete ideological postulates in a direct or indirect way, the original parliaments, in our case the Basque Parliament, are thus being robbed of the possibility of legislation on matters in which they must be able to formulate their own policies. It's not about talking about sovereignism, it's about exercising it. It's over. The guarantee of the right to decent and adequate housing referred to in article 47 of the Constitution commits all public authorities, but its exercise has a clear constitutional delimitation that does not allow the State to superimpose its legislative initiative on the pre-existing or possible autonomous legislation, which to a large extent this bill seeks to replace, in our view, unnecessarily. This law therefore involves this and other excesses that lead us, therefore, to request this House to consider the return of this project to the Government relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u64	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, you have spoken of a text of high legal solvency and I would like to begin by commenting that six amendments to the whole do not seem to support that legal solvency which you presume. We have tabled an amendment to the whole of the executive-driven bill, to regulate, as the Government claims, the right to decent and adequate housing, which is what emerges and what the text itself says that we have been presented with. We have tabled an amendment to this proposal in its entirety because simply the Government's approach seems to us to be a real misunderstanding, although we will now talk about what this bill means. Citizens believe that this proposal for legal regulation is an absolute error on the part of the Government, but I have to admit that at least your tone, Mrs Sánchez, on the part of the Government, has perhaps been much more appropriate, because we must reproach the Government for the genuinely chulesque attitude and constant challenge to this issue, once again, to our institutional system. Because we cannot otherwise qualify this Government's reaction to the report of the General Council of the Judiciary, which we knew at the end of January, even qualifying the highest governing body of judges as rotten fruit or leading the anti-democratic reaction against the coalition government; literal words from the spokesman for Podemos, Mrs. Isa Serra, whose criminal record for assaulting the authority does not seem to pose a problem to join a ministry such as that of Equality, but rather a merit to collect a public salary. From Podemos, we can expect everything, but what is not to be received is that this PSOE street and grant before a new insult to an institution of the State, such as the judiciary, before the defamation of its governing body by one of the parties of the executive coalition. How far are you going to allow the attack on state institutions? How long will you allow those who do not believe, not in the State itself but in the decisions that this Government takes, to remain part of it? What else does it take for you to realize that Podemos is not here to build anything, but simply to destroy? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, speaking precisely of housing, we have to remind you that it is your partners who presented behind your backs and, in addition, posing a challenge to you, a proposal for a housing law, which did so as a challenge within the same government. What housing law will you support, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos? Yours, the one they vote or the one they sign, in principle, with Bildu, with Esquerra, with the BNG, or the one your minister signs with the PSOE? Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, what housing law will you end up passing, the one that you are presenting to us today or the one that We can and your dangerous friends will force you to end up voting, even if you do not believe in it? Neither will serve either to meet Europe or the interests of the Spaniards, so that they can have easier access to decent housing and, therefore, my group amends this project as a whole. But I return to the place where I started this intervention, to that attitude of a Government that has decided to skip to the toaster the report of the General Council of the Judiciary on its bill. Indeed, a report which, being mandatory, is not a binding report, which does not oblige you, but to which you have responded from the Government, from at least part of it, with absolute contempt for the institution that governs that judiciary. The Government - PSOE and We can help in this, yes - has decided to ignore that report, a report that is not pointing to deficiencies in ordinary legislation, but raises two major questions of a constitutional nature and relevance: the first - as has been said - refers to the division of powers provided for in the Constitution itself, and the second, to ignore the content of essential elements of the fundamental right that is private property. In any case, with your project you jump and violate the constitutional norm. Firstly, because this law is deeply interventionist from the point of view of the competences of the State vis-à-vis the autonomous communities. The division of powers in the area of housing legislation has already been settled by the Constitutional Court since 1988, which has interpreted in numerous judgments the content of article 148.1.3 (a) of the Constitution, referring precisely to the competences of the autonomous communities in the area of spatial planning, urban planning and housing, which are fully autonomous, and which is why it is precisely for the communities to fulfil the constitutional mandate of article 47 and thus to design and implement public policies aimed at giving effect to the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The scope of State responsibility for housing has been constitutionally limited to national housing plans or intervention in this sector of the economy in times of severe economic crisis. This makes it possible to implement concrete fiscal measures, rules on mortgages, urban rents, over-indebtedness of families, protection of mortgage debtors, evictions, horizontal property or energy efficiency, but under no circumstances, as the Constitutional Court itself has pointed out, can the State expropriate the competences of the autonomous communities in the field of housing. It is surprising that, being you adalides and calling yourself defenders of federalism, multilevel Spain or plurinationality when you try to give privileges to nationalists, however, you become so centralist when you want to impose your sectarian measures. Just as the problem is that when local governments are left under autonomous regulation, such as that of the city of Madrid, applying liberal housing policies the results contradict their thesis, and of course they do not like that. Because in Madrid it was Begoña Villacís, with his team at the City Council of Madrid, that managed to reduce the rental price to 9 %. And you know why? Because you are free to apply prescriptions that work, liberal prescriptions and, of course, not to apply price limitation. [[Applauds]] That is why, from a liberal point of view, this bill before us is directly intractable. This text ignores civil issues and concepts consolidated in the Spanish legal system, claiming an invasion of the administrative sphere in what are essentially legal-private relations. This bill, as highlighted in its report by the General Council of the Judiciary itself, confuses the social relevance of the necessary land management with the individual private property of the house, where private interest outweighs the public interest. You want to banish article 348 of the Civil Code, which states that property is the right to enjoy and dispose of one thing without any limitations other than those established by law. Because the right of ownership in our system is the norm, the limitation of it is precisely the exception. Its text is that property is simply what remains after a law that limits, prohibits and punishes, and that does not marry the concept that we have or that the Constitution itself has of private property law. It must be remembered again, it is a subjective and exercisable right before the courts directly, something that does not happen with the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing, which obliges the public authorities to guide their policies to that end. Therefore, the bill affects the purpose of confusing the social function of private property provided for in article 33.2 of the Constitution - that which they have both argued from Podemos to claim little or no more than the expropriation of all the Spanish real estate and which they find so difficult to understand, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos - with the framework of the statute of private property, consecrated and protected constitutionally. The problem is that housing must fulfil a social function limited to its effective housing destination, which is what this text says, and that seems to us a barbarity, because it comes to declare as improper uses any other that the owner, in the use of his faculties as such owner, wants to give to his property. Moreover, in fact, article 11.2 of the text proposed to us provides for penalties which may be imposed for non-compliance with the duties associated with the ownership of housing. Ladies and gentlemen, this perspective radically changes the constitutional concept of the right to private property, because from this law what is intended by the Government is to approve that citizens do not have all the rights and powers they have as owners until now, but simply what remains after the limitations and after what the law expressly confers on them, and that breaks the principle of constitutional private property. The law thus becomes not a limit, but the tool of a vigilant State that penalizes, punishes and that is absolutely direct of any private activity of an owner with what is his or her own, with his or her property. They do not, of course, count on us, with a liberal party, to establish an absolutely interventionist state in the freedom of people over what belongs to them. Finally, this Government has resorted to a legal rule to consolidate measures that may be appropriate at a particular and very specific time of social emergency, such as the pandemic of 2020 and part of 2021, and no one denies that certain measures may have a positive impact on social life, but this Government cannot attempt to take advantage of that time to establish permanently norms designed for specific and specific moments. We must return to normality, ladies and gentlemen, and return to the enjoyment of all our rights, as was enjoyed before those circumstances which have justified certain restrictions or limitations. Therefore, in Citizens we are not going to give way - as the Government wants to do with this bill - to violat constitutional rights such as that of private property with interested manipulations of other lower-ranking precepts. Because what you do is manipulate article 47 of the Constitution to bring it into a conflict that is only apparent with article 33. They also do so in a rude and rude way with this project, and that is precisely why we amend it in its entirety, calling for its return to the Government. If the Government really wants a law on the right to housing, we will have proposals to make to it in fiscal matters, for example, by giving rights and not restricting condolences, by putting in place strategies and measures that work, and not others that have proven to be ineffective and harmful such as the imposition of rental price constraints. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that you in the PSOE cannot, let alone accept, make sensible proposals on housing because you are simply hostage to the foolishness of your partner in government. I will not ask you to throw them out of the government - you have already done so before - but it is a problem that you have to deal with every day, and, if not, to the recent facts I refer to. It is you who bear every day with the need to explain, day and day also, their constant contradictions, their provocations and their attitudes as a capricious child. Stop moving to Spanish society, at least at this time so complicated that we are living, crazy and absurd proposals, much less if they are also unconstitutional. We have reached out to them on other occasions and have shown that we can be loyal to those to whom we owe ourselves, who are none other than the Spanish citizens. Faced with expropriatory and infringing proposals against these rights, of course, do not hesitate, we will always have Citizens facing us. And as I began, I repeat to you again, Minister, when you spoke of the legal solvency of the text: to reread the report of the General Council of the Judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u66	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u67	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to the full refund, and I will try to explain myself. Indeed, the Spanish state as a whole has a major housing problem and Catalonia has an important unsolved housing problem, but we understand that this bill will not substantially improve it and, in some cases, will make this situation worse. Our amendment to the full refund has two reasons: the first, in the area of competition, which I am going to try to explain, and the second, in the area of content strictly. Article 137 of the Statute of Catalonia states that the Generalitat of Catalonia has exclusive competence in the field of housing, based on Article 148.1.1a of the Constitution itself, and although in this draft you rely on Article 149.1, third paragraph, to develop some aspects of basic legislation, we understand - not only us, but most parliamentary groups, the General Council of the Judiciary and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court - that it is clearly out of line in its approach. I'm not going to do an article-by-article analysis because I don't have time and it doesn't belong to me, but there are many articles that make this competitive invasion. I will quote some: Article 15, which establishes the percentage of land devoted to protected housing - that is the competence of each of the autonomous communities with exclusive competence - or Article 18, which is not that it regulates the areas of tensioned residential markets but that it establishes 30% on income or percentages of increase above the CPI, which in any case would be the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities - curiously, the amendment of alternative text by Esquerra Republicana fully reproduces this Article 18 as Article 6, it will also have to be explained - or Title III, of the public housing parks, which is the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities. Therefore, I am not going to expand further on this, it is very clear. On the other hand, there is a theme of content, a theme of conception: when you talk about regulating the price of housing, somehow what you do is you outsource the problem. Actually, the problem in Spain and Catalans is that there is no public housing park - you have said it and you have recognized it - and the way to solve the problem is that there is this public housing park. I am aware that the government is taking important steps, and with the Next Generation funds, important steps will be taken. This is the solution, not to transfer the problem to the private sector and to say: from now on, in certain cases, you will not be able to raise or regulate prices, as you understand. I am not going to rely on the comparative experience, but in Catalonia we have examples over the last few months or years. I recommend that you also read some of the published studies, some of the papers. The Centre for Economic Policy of that sEcPol has drawn up some documents which are very significant, and where they raise the possibility that what you intend to resolve by means of redistributive policies will have an opposite effect. They plant situations such as census sections in Madrid, where the most tense ones have, practically, the same price as the unstressed ones, with which, the effect is going to be absolutely perverse. In any case, you don't have to be a doctor in Economics to understand that if you regulate the price of a product, obviously, you don't encourage people to invest in that product. We must not be ultra-liberal or doctor in the economy, we must understand the effect, which is going to be that there will be less offer of private housing, at least in the tense areas, perhaps they will invest in the unstressed areas, with which the effect is still more perverse. I will also take the opportunity to take the opportunity to take a stand on the amendment of the alternative text by Esquerra Republicana, which, by the way, is a covert amendment of return, I mean covert... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u68	One second, Your Honor. There's a lot of noise. Wait a minute to see if...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u69	It is just that your ladies and gentlemen are also interested in the amendment to the alternative text of the Republican Left. What I'm telling you is that it's a covert return amendment. Why? Because they make it a law of seven articles; of the seven articles, five are amendments to other laws, so they are more appropriate to a final provision than to an articulated one. The minister has thanked him, and she has thanked him for having reached some agreement. I would urge all the groups that have tabled refund amendments that also vote for the Republican Left, because although Article 6, for example, is the same as Article 18, I think it would be better to work with this text than with the Government. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u70	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u71	Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. A week ago, and today too, Minister, you stated that this bill that you are presenting to us today does not constitute a violation of the powers of the Autonomous Communities. I'm sorry to have to tell you that I do, that I do violate them, and that I do so without any kind of modesty, violating Catalonia's competitive framework and ignoring constitutional and statutory principles. You, who claim to be defenders of the Constitution, with this bill violate it, violate the jurisdictional distribution that is established in the Constitution and that develops in the statutes of autonomy. We are not just saying this to Junts per Catalunya - which may seem obvious - but also to the other parties that have tabled amendments to the whole, some with a completely different view of the State than ours, and so is the report of the General Council of the Judiciary. I say that so much coincidence for something will be; I don't know if you have raised it. The Constitutional Court itself - its Constitutional Court - has ruled in various jurisprudence the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities and, making use of this exclusive competence, Catalonia has legislated. The first housing law, in 1991, has enacted another law on the right to housing, another on strategic planning, on processes of mortgage execution, on emergency housing and energy poverty, on persons at risk of residential exclusion, on the containment of rental income and on official protection. In Catalonia, therefore, there is an interest in guaranteeing housing rights and the bill before us is a dismantling of this legislation, adopted legitimately, as I have told you, in the use of the exclusive powers of the communities. Also, the bill not only invades competences, but does not improve the already regulated. In Catalonia, for example, we have the determination of tense market areas or protected housing and, by entering into issues that are already regulated by the autonomous communities, it will generate confusion and contradictions; ultimately, legal insecurity. As someone has said, a monster is going to be created subject to electoral cycles. Moreover, the project does not provide feasible solutions to structural problems, such as evictions. In this sense, there is no provision for compulsory mediation, which we do have in Catalonia, nor for concerted measures for the temporary transfer of housing for social policies, which we also have. As you will know, on Tuesday the Law on the extension of urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency, which was approved with the votes of the Socialist Party in the Parliament of Catalonia, came into force, a legislative extension that protects the most vulnerable families and preserves the rights of the small owners, who represent 85% of the holders in Catalonia. And please do not fall into the mistake of thinking that we are against a legislative text that gives citizens their right to housing. Do not be confused; we support the pillar of the welfare state. The economic context and the housing market have evolved and generated a situation of social need. The right to and access to housing is a sensitive and multi-faceted issue. Right to housing versus right to private property. To respond to these edges we don't use coffee for everyone. Each territory has its particularities, its needs, its economic structure; there are no whites and blacks, there are greys and they must be answered. This has been done by the Parliament and the Generalitat de Catalunya, who are the best acquainted with their territory and the needs of the citizens of that territory. The re-centralization of a matter of the communities is not the solution. Objectives and objectives cannot be imposed on the housing policies of communities through tangential titles, without respecting the distribution of competences. The housing policy model must be decided by the competent administration; in this case, the communities. The bill before us implies a forced and artificial absorption of competition, ignoring constitutional and statutory principles and thus violating the existing competition framework. For Junts per Catalunya, respect for the competences of the Generalitat is a red line that we must preserve. We can discuss models and policies, which some will call more left, right or center, but it is unquestionable that competences are not violated. This text implies the imposition of a zero margin of decision-making capacity for communities. Autonomous communities - Catalonia - should not become mere partners in the management of the right to housing, as has already happened with the management of the Next Generation EU funds. They seem to want to repeat the same story. You have stated in your speech, Minister, your commitment that the final text is respectful of the competition titles. At the moment it is not, we have told many. I'm sorry that we doubt these words, these promises, and hope to be wrong - we really want to - with our doubts. That is why we are presenting the amendment to the full refund, which we hope will be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u72	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vallugera Balañá has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u73	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Let me start with a finding to frame this debate that we are having in reality. From 2013 to 2021, i.e. in just eight years, approximately 480,000 evictions, 480,000 in eight years have occurred in the Spanish State; of these, approximately 170 000 for mortgage default, 288,000 for rent default and 20,000 for other different reasons. Neither young people nor families with certain incomes nor people who have had the bad luck of falling into areas such as Barcelona or Madrid, who are tense, do not have access in general. And, point and point, let me make another observation. Competition in the field of housing is an exclusive competence assumed by the Autonomous Communities. A third finding would be that some autonomous communities have tried to legislate, with uneven results, on housing to prevent this disaster that so many people and so many families are suffering, but with a common denominator: all laws aimed at alleviating this situation have been appealed by the Government and sometimes by other parliamentary groups to the Constitutional Court, which has mutilated them to a greater or lesser extent. And, now - this likes those of Madrid - let's say I speak of Catalonia. We have our housing law, Law 18/2007; we have enacted Law 24/2015 on Urgent Measures to Address Emergencies in the Field of Housing and Energy Poverty; Law 4/2016 on Measures to Protect the Right to Housing of Persons at Risk of Residential Exclusion; Law 11/2020 on Urgent Measures in the Field of Income Containment in Housing Leasing Contracts; Decree Law 37/2020 of 3 November on Strengthening the Protection of the Right to Housing in the Face of the Effects of the VID-19 Pandemic and very recently, Law 1/2022 of 3 March, to Address the Emergency in the Field of Housing. By the way, Decree Law 37/2020 has already been appealed and annulled. They've gone fast. You know what's going on? Most of them are appealed to the Constitutional Court, either by the Government of office, the latter or the former, or by the parliamentary groups of the other party. And, yes, more than once I have come up to this stage to demand that the State assume and face its responsibilities and legislation on matters in which, in fact, it has competence: in procedural, fiscal and mortgage matters, but the unpleasant response we receive is that of a re-centralizing and invasive text of competences, to the extent that it leaves them without content and, if that were not enough, that it does not guarantee the right to housing. At this point, let me clarify. This is the fifth time I remember on this stand that they do not rule with an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies. I do not know if I am not making this very clear or if I am not saying it very loud, but you have the legitimacy to push forward the legislative projects you want and to govern, but what you do not have is the votes to legislate at your will. They don't have them! Let's see if I can make it this time. [[Applauds]] Our amendment to the whole with an alternative text - thanks, by the way, for suggesting that we vote - could be voted on perfectly by the groups of the Government and could give rise to unquestionable accession among the different independence and sovereign groups in this House. Indeed, it could be perfectly the text that the Government would have submitted if it really believed in the decentralized State it advocated, our text proposing socially advanced regulation as the necessary modifications for compulsory social rental in eviction processes and a translation of price containment legislation into the regulation of leases that could be assumed by the State. I would also like to point out that this is a simple starting point that should be strengthened and extended to other cases that have been worked by housing and social entities. I am afraid that they will not vote in favour of our proposal, which obliges me to make our red lines for negotiation very clear, that is to say, the minimum budgets that must be met by any text that they claim to be worthy of our support. We will not accept the invocation of Article 149.1.1a of the Constitution as a cross-cutting budget enabling the regulation that is intended to be adopted. To do so would be as much as to renounce a minimum of self-government and the exclusive or non-exclusive competences that they still retain. Let me remind you that we are not here to defend the maintenance of an autonomous community, but to build an independent state, which does not prevent us from taking a step back on the plots that still make up our own self-government. Two, we must safeguard exclusive jurisdiction over our own civil law, not foral or special, not, own, and that logically includes the matter of urban leases, just as we have historically done and how we do it today with agricultural leases and other matters of obligations and contracts contained in book VI of the Civil Code of Catalonia. The same must be true of our exclusive competences in the areas of housing, urban planning and consumption. We will oppose any provision that may lead to the displacement due to unconstitutionality arising under the Housing Act 18/2007 and reduce the regulation considered basic to the minimums essential and not contradictory to our own legislation, as well as any other that endangers the containment of income that operates successfully at this time in Catalonia, which must maintain the power to dictate its own rules in this area. The empowerment of the Government for the regulatory development of the law must be specific and restricted. The establishment by regulation of state bases that are imposed on our laws cannot be accepted. Finally - I would like to repeat this - we will propose and we will have to make improvements in the amendment of procedural legislation in the line of compulsory social rental and the introduction as procedural requirements of vulnerability reports and the offer of real housing alternative. Let me tell you in other words. We do not recognize the competence of the State because it does not have it in the area of housing, urban planning and consumption, but we are aware that legislative amendments must be made in the area of its competence to ensure that this substantive legislation has effect and real and unquestionable application in the courts. Thus, let all be clear that the sudden and fierce interest in safeguarding the powers of the autonomous communities, the General Council of the Judiciary and some political formations has nothing but the defence of a supposed State composed of different laws based on its powers, but with a deliberate will to hinder any impairment of the right to private property, that absolute right without any dependence on its social function. I repeat it again, we conceive of private property subject to its social function, and the destiny of a home is to be a home, to be occupied to provide, as a primary right, the rest of the rights of the people we preach: privacy, health, family; life, in short. [[Applauds]] For this reason, and because we have the written guarantee, given by the minister that the law we pass will solve the problems of competition incardination, we will vote against the amendments of return and allow processing. At the moment, I want to make a special thank you to all the entities - the PAH, the Llogators Union - that have been working tirelessly to make this happen. [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. The warning is public and solemn. No, no, we only commit our future vote to meeting the requirements set out in order to ensure the maintenance of our capacity to deal with a problem that has been unresolved for too long, to non-invasion of competition and to progress in social rights. No houses without people, no people without houses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u74	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, the housing law has finally arrived in Congress, but the remedy is worse than the disease. It is obvious, in view of the little success it has had, because this law does not even like the government's own partners. Let us look at its outcome; what was expected was that it was the People's Parliamentary Group that had tabled this amendment in its entirety, because from the beginning we have been very critical of the determinations of this law, but it has been the People's Party, Citizens and their partners; the PNV, PeCAT, Esquerra and Junts. This is a clear and absolute indicator that this law does not serve, that this housing law should be withdrawn and drafted with what really matters, and so has the report of the General Council of the Judiciary. And what is really to be regulated? Have you considered it in your ministry, Minister? Because it gives the impression that, rather than regular, you have chosen to content your government partners, because there is no other explanation for this engineer, who has neither feet nor head. This law is now born obsolete, and penalizes and demonizes those who can solve the problem. You know that in the last fifteen years 2.4 million private-saving homes have been built, and what this law does is penalize the private savings of businesses and families. When you want to solve something, you have to identify the problem and the cause. If the problem is that there is difficulty in access to housing, the cause will be that housing is lacking where it is needed, that there is little supply. And if the cause is that the housing conditions are not good and equal, we will have to see what this inequality consists of within the adjustable parameters, such as accessibility. Madam Minister, accessibility is the great forgotten of this government which seems to have not read the law. Do you want me to lower the rental prices? So seek the balance between supply and demand, give tools to the autonomous communities and local entities, and do not double what is already regulated and, moreover, where the State has no competence. Do you want empty housing to be incorporated into the market? It is therefore necessary to implement non-criminalizing incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, we must support the social role that Spain attaches to the right to private property. To have rights also means to have duties and the different rights and duties of the interveners and the pillars and foundations on which our country's housing and property policy must be consolidated must be clearly defined. Contrary to all this, a propagandistic and pamphlet law with a high ideological burden is made that cannot be allowed a state law that intends to act as umbrellas of the housing legislation of each of the autonomous communities. The measures proposed by the PSOE and Podemos are unconstitutional, they are an attack on private property as never before seen in our country. It is not that there is a control of rental prices, but that this law is full of absolutely abusive measures that penalize the possession of real estate. Worst of all, it is an argument to exempt the Government from its nullity of establishing an effective housing policy and what they do is to charge everything on private property. [[Applauds]] For reasons I will try to degenerate, this law represents a legal aberration that attacks individual freedom, private property and the rental market. Look, the main objectives of this law, which is sold as a response to housing problems in our country according to its own explanatory statement, are to guarantee the right to decent housing under affordable conditions, in addition to ensuring the existence of a public housing park, state action and transparency of public policies. Then, all this materializes in populist and failed proposals, because where they apply they have failed, such as the regulation of rental prices. Interventionism, propaganda, attacks on the rule of law and interference, both in the autonomous competences and in the contractual relations between private individuals, inconcretions and references to other normative instruments are characteristics that are detected throughout the articulation of this law. We wonder if you are really convinced of what you are proposing. Do you believe that all this is to be resolved, in addition to violating property rights? Look, the right to property cannot be violated by a tendentious application of the social function of property. Here it seems that the exceptionality of the Royal Decree Law 11/2020, of measures against COVID, is intended to become definitive and have the same obligations as public housing entities as private owners. That can't be because the exceptional can't be standard, and you confuse regulating the social function of the property with overscattering the property and overscattering the owner. Do you really believe that this law will solve the problems of citizens or will solve the problems of the government? The Government has shown us several times that housing policy is always at the service of its political interests, not the first time we have said it here. Look, they first appealed to the Catalan law that limits rents and appealed to the Constitutional Court without requesting suspension. Why? For - said by the government itself - to relieve tensions. Every little has been yielding to the pressures of Podemos and coming to regulate the price of rents, each in different ways, each more unfortunate, and, finally, have yielded with the approval of this bill by the Council of Ministers, even with the report against the General Council of the Judiciary. This has been done because, if not approved, it could endanger that government coalition, as it already happened in 2019. Mr Sánchez, and in this case Mrs Sánchez, sell our constitutional principles for their permanence in the Moncloa by adopting a law that frequently attacks private property, penalizes being the owner of a property and regularizes the occupation of housing no longer only with the amendment introduced by the royal decree that has preceded us, but they prolong the agony of the owner of an occupied house by leaving the express eviction procedure that we had consolidated in an amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act here in this House in 2018. And with these methods and measures we wonder if you really think about solving something, because you are not going to solve the problem of vulnerable people, you are not going to guarantee the right to private property and you are not going to guarantee the right to housing for young people, the only thing that guarantees you is your stay in Moncloa. And look, with regard to the measures, it is not only the control of rents - which is what has most sounded of this housing law - but insecurity is generated by the ambiguity and impreciseness of many measures, especially those regulated in the final provisions, measures in the taxation of housing. In the face of our encouraging measures, coercive, scarring measures are proposed and - let us hope - of limited course. The amendments to the Soil Act that they raise run counter to the rights acquired by urban landowners. And the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act favours the occupation of housing by preventing evictions of real estate in certain non-objective circumstances. And then, what should this housing law regulate? The first is regular, to seek the balance between the social and economic character of housing, because legal certainty must be given in order to fulfil the two things: the social and the economic. What cannot be is a merely interventionist instrument, as the Government claims, which also sells the law as a mechanism to solve a problem that, in addition to being transitory, does not respond equally to the entire national territory. The first is to establish clearly the competitive framework between the State and the autonomous communities, which are the ones who really have jurisdiction over housing; the State has regulatory capacity in areas that directly affect housing policy with regard to the overall planning of economic activity, the regulatory framework and the right to property and to establish its social role; the establishment of credit management bases; the establishment of contractual relations guidelines on the basis of civil law; and could also contain measures against occupation. The growing resources to the Constitutional Court of the housing laws of the Autonomous Communities, which define precisely the competences between the State and the Autonomous Communities, must be avoided. And with this law what are they going to get? Just the opposite, that the state law is the one to be appealed.What should the Government do with this law? Well, look, they have to take it off. The only way a government with a minimum of sensitivity and dignity would have had a way out is to remove it and start dealing with a new one with the main opposition party - why not? - while respecting private property and facilitating access to property for young people and families. A law that, in addition, would fight the occupation, as the People's Party has been demanding. The owner must be protected, ladies and gentlemen, not the offender. And to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the main inflationary factor in housing is the excessive regulation, interventionism and taxes it bears, and this law has everything; it has everything. But it is actually easy: to lower prices you have to increase the offer, more freedom and less taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u76	Mr Gimeno has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is a housing problem in Spain, which in fact encompasses a set of problems, such as the need for housing, the inability of young people to access purchase or rent, the inadequacy of public housing parks, but we must also observe the territorial difference in housing problems and, among them, the specifics of housing in rural areas, where supply is a basic link to start reversing depopulation. Housing is a right for all, a pillar of the welfare state and one of the foundations of territorial and social cohesion. It is essential to find consensus during the processing of this law so that it is more transversal in its content and its agents and has the capacity to make the right to housing possible in very different contexts, from urban areas, with rent tensions, to rural areas and small towns in unpopulated areas. Although the explanatory statement mentions the problems of access to housing in rural areas, there are no measures in this area. We will support the processing and present important partial amendments to allow for a specific treatment of the problem in the small municipalities, where a public park of housing for rent of typology and prices in accordance with the socio-economic context and facilitating repopulation should be created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u78	Thank you. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This law not only does not guarantee any rights, but attacks them; it attacks rights contained in our Constitution, it attacks the basic rights of the Spaniards, it attacks absolutely compatible and necessary rights and principles in any liberal democracy. This is a law that brings this Government with a report against, and specifically against, the General Council of the Judiciary. Therefore, no one in this House who claims to respect the powers of the Autonomous Communities can be in favour of or allow this law. That's the first thing. And secondly, no one in this House who believes in the principles of liberal democracy can think that attacking private property builds more liberal democracy; it is absolutely incoherent. Once again, the radical part of the Government has been imposed. This is a toll, a new toll that the Socialist Party is willing to pay to the radical part of the government, and also a suffamation, because this does not come to solve any right, this does not come to guarantee any right to housing, which already guarantees the Spanish Constitution, we do not need a law to guarantee in vain rights. This law to come is to attack private property and also to make a problem worse, because putting a stop to the prices of rents will only get one thing and is that the prices of rents increase because there is less housing available. That's what we've seen, it's reality. From there, anyone can cover their eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u80	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Coalition is going to vote yes to the amendments to the whole of this housing law and against the alternative text presented by Esquerra. Housing is the competence of the autonomous communities; this bill invades competences in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands and as nationalists we cannot endorse a law that violates our status of autonomy. We vote not for a law whose content is nothing more than a bubble with four populist and propaganda ideas facing the gallery, which are not and cannot be assumed by the State and which puts them on the roof of the autonomous communities. They fill out a bill with verbs like encouraging, pushing, but scratches and below these verbs there is nothing, no commitment, no action, no action, nothing at all. In similar experiences of price imposition or increased tax burdens on the lessor, there has been an opposite effect: the withdrawal of housing from the rental market, not to mention that it can generate more submerged economy and speculation. In this Act, they do not propose measures to encourage the promotion and construction of new housing that will expand the current public park. Moreover, they will slow down the construction of new homes. This bill aims to penalize the owner of several properties by adding percentages of surcharges of up to 50%. And it is that, according to this law, the holder of a second home will have to justify why not rent it. I'm on my way. This law also justifies the otupation - otupation with k - of dwellings. I warn you, giving carte blanche to the okupation hurts the right to property and, among other things, will force the owner to have to bear expenses for an occupied house. And let's not talk in the Canary Islands about the otupation of social housing, with families with little ones and in vulnerability who had been waiting for a house for ten years and do not understand that a guy enters, throws the door and the okupe, and they still have no housing. That's why we're not going to support this law.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u83	Thank you, President. Minister, today that we talk about housing I am accompanied by the memory of Jacinto Ávalos, a militant arrested in 1981 in Terrassa for being a member of the Association of Workers for a Dignified Housing - it is a struggle that comes from afar - and who died in prison a few years later in very unclear circumstances. We've talked a lot about housing and I have very little time. I will focus on our position on the law that they bring us today saying that we will not support the amendments to the full refund that they want to prevent it from being processed. We will not do as the PSOE did in its day, in December, adding its votes to those on the right precisely to prevent the processing of a law that came from the popular movement, that came from the platforms, that was supported by eight formations present here in Congress, and therefore we will let it be processed today. But we also do not support the Government's text, mainly for two reasons. The first is insufficient, especially as regards the limitation of the rental price; it puts so many conditions that it ends up preventing it from being a practical effect that will regulate the rental price. And the second - it has been said a lot and we also wanted to insist - because it is a re-centralizing law. Housing is a competition of autonomy and in the case, for example, of the Parliament of Catalonia has been used for advanced laws such as the 11/2020, regulating the price of rent. And there is the paradox - let's put it this way - that this law is invoked by the People's Party and by the PSOE and UN government We can the Constitutional. With one hand there is a Catalan law advanced to the Constitution; with the other we are asked to support a law that would confirm that loss of competence of our parliaments. So, as it is today, we will not support this law. If we support the opening of the procedure for amendments, the adoption of good amendments that make a good law and that do not centralise, but do not trust themselves as they always do, nor play the blackmail of or this law or anything. You have already rejected a housing law also when you had the opportunity, and we will only vote on it if it is really a law that advances and respects the powers of parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u84	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u85	President, ladies and gentlemen, I've been on Guztioi. The truth is that, after listening to the speeches in defence of the refund amendments, I can only reaffirm the meaning of our vote, which is going to be a vote against all of them, except that of the Republican Left of Catalonia, and I say this because the arguments have been far too predictable, which is no demerit, in any case it is good that they are visible. Moreover, it is well that it would have been even clearer. I have to thank the People's Party and Citizens who have been very clear in their defense of private property above the people's need for housing, as they have expressed and verbalized, I don't know if the rest of them think so and have not wanted to verbalize. They were also very clear when they talked about the balance between supply and demand, the famous theory of the invisible hand, by Adam Smith, more false than a euro of wood but which still has adherents. They have been quite clear when they have said that this law was coercive in nature. This is more funny because, of course, the parents of coercion say that something is coercive, makes us all think, because nobody better than the Spanish right knows what repression and coercion is when it comes to building legal devices to punish the population. [[Rumors]] Quiet. But an alleged attack or invasion of competition has also been mentioned. I will refer to that later, because it was also predictable. And it is true that sometimes the ghost is thrown or invoked the problem of competitive invasion and, probably, there are times when it happens and we have to denounce it, we agree, but other times to us it gives us the feeling that it is used to, as it is said in football field, throw balloons out. That is to say, what I do not do in an autonomous House because I do not want to do so, because I do not agree with the philosophy of putting forward all the subjective right to housing, because I put it in another scenario, and in another scenario, as I do not have to be a protagonist, because my original position is diluted. In any case, as I say, we are going to vote against the return amendments because we believe that the right to housing is a right that must be guaranteed to the whole population, because we believe that putting the right to property in front of the need of the most vulnerable is neither fair nor decent, and because we believe that protecting the interests of the real estate sector in the face of the needs of the people is deeply reactionary, disguises itself as disguised and puts behind the flag that is put on. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u86	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u87	Because that is the real reason and few votes we will see in this Congress that mark so clearly, in such a definite way, what are the left policies of the right policies, the left political formations of the right political formations, carry behind the flag they carry behind. But, said this, I want to make a leap in time. I want to leave on December 14, 2021. Here, in this House, another housing law was discussed. In this case, the proposal for a law guaranteeing access to housing was rejected. It was a law that came with the endorsement of 120 social organizations, including the majority unions of the Spanish State, to which we must always listen, less - it seems - on this occasion, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, together with the right-wing party, which today presents the amendments of return, decided that this was not the initiative on which to build a bill that responds to the needs of hundreds of thousands of people who do not find a housing solution. We and we, Euskal Herria Bildu, of course, say this with absolute clarity: we want to change the existing housing model and we want a new legal framework, but not any legal framework. We want the evictions to end without a housing alternative, because they continue to occur, because people are still being evicted today. We want to put a limit on rental prices, because this is actually a new market niche for vulture funds, which must also be said, and it does not matter whether they come from the United States or are made up of honourable people from our societies. And we want to see an increase in the percentage that the municipalities are carrying out in terms of surplus value for urban land, and we believe that this should also be pointed out, in the same way that we want more sheltered housing and, within the sheltered housing, more rented housing, if not all rented housing. These are the positions Euskal Herria Bildu has held. As far as the competition framework is concerned, to which I wanted to refer, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, to defend our self-government in the face of the invasion of competences is well, I recognize it - and it must be done always - and they will find us not only to defend it, but also to try to expand it much more, to the absolute, I hope they will also accompany us on that path, but to defend self-government is not to prevent social progress for the social majority. I believe that if this is how they understand it, they have misunderstood self-government; its defence and enlargement must serve to extend the rights of the social majority, to demonstrate to Basques and Basques that with more tools of our own we can offer better living conditions to our citizens, not otherwise, not to avoid using the tools we have and the competences we have in our parliaments, which are our own, and not to make these laws. It is not honest that the defence of competencies is used as a strategy to change nothing. Should we shield our capabilities? Yes, but what you are trying to do is to prevent social progress by supporting the logic of the market and protecting great economic interests. You, Mr Barandiaran, have brought a milestone to the fore, and I would like to thank you publicly; you have brought to the fore the Euskadi Housing Act adopted in June 2015 and you have pointed out the beneficial effects or contents of that own law. You have spoken about the capacity of the public administration to expropriate housing, you have spoken about the subjective character of housing law and you have been degenerating the contents of the law, but you have forgotten a not minor detail, I think, that you do not know the same in this House, but that I want to share with you. He has forgotten to say that that law of 2015 came forward with the votes of Euskal Herria Bildu, the Socialist Party of Basquedi and UPyD-something good one day - with 38 votes, but there were 37 votes against, the votes of the People's Party - predictable - and the Basque Nationalist Party! That law that you worship here as a pioneering law of progress and progress is a law that you voted against. And see if I know well, calmly, that you could reproduce almost word for word what your spokesman at the time said in the debate: that it was a letter to the Magi and that we did not have competences; those were the main lines. [[Mr. Barandiaran Benito utters words that are not perceived]] And you know why I know so well? Because I voted for that law. I was in the Basque Parliament on that day of 2015 voting in favour of that Euskadi Housing Act that you are launching here today as an example of the good practices of your government, but which you and your party voted against. I think that's to complete the photo and complete the X-ray, and I think it's just to do so so that the half truths don't cover the reason for things. In any case - and I finish now - we are going to vote against the return, and we are going to do so because we want to introduce amendments that lead this law to a horizon more similar to that of the law of 14 December 2021, that of social groups, and we are going to do so to give more rights to people and also, of course, to shield our competences. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Ministers, welcome. Today we talk about the first state law on the right to housing. I will focus on our position on the amendments to the whole that have been explained here. On the one hand, we find the amendments to the entire return of the Spanish right, which they do not like the policies they call interventionists and which they proudly raise, I would say, that flag of market freedom and property rights. [[Rumors]] The first thing I want to tell you is that this debate is a lie, it is a false debate. Rules and rules exist. There is no freedom of the market, what exists are rules that can put a red carpet on vulture funds and can make it possible to speculate on an essential good such as housing or there may be, on the contrary, other rules and other laws that they want to protect the general interest, protect the rights of citizens, and also comply with the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Because, gentlemen of the right, complying with the Constitution means - listen - controlling the mercantillizing and speculative processes that prevent the majority of Spanish families from accessing decent housing. There is a very clear mandate in our constitutional text. The Spanish Constitution, article 47, establishes the right of everyone to the enjoyment of decent and adequate housing and, in addition, imposes on all public authorities the duty to promote the necessary conditions guaranteeing the exercise of this right; moreover, it also prohibits speculation about this property. So I'd say less beatings on the chest to defend the Constitution and a little more effort to enforce it, and that's why we bring this housing bill here. On the other hand, we find the amendments, also to the full refund, of the nationalist rights, which cling to the competitive invasion, an issue that is always recurring in order not to enter into flour. And here I'd like to do a little historical tour. I would recall that the State has always made housing policy; moreover, I would say that practically the only housing policy that has existed until the twenty-first century has been the one that the State has made, the one that the State made in the state housing plans and their financing, and in the meantime the autonomous communities adopted some measures very similar to the state plans and provide a little money. Well, all this happened for quite a long time, almost thirty years, and during those thirty years they ruled the right in Catalonia and in Euskadi, and it seems that they did not bother them so much with these measures that the State was taking. But perhaps the reason is that they coincided in substance, because they were not housing policies that aimed to materialize the right to housing, but were economic policies serving the economic interests of some oligarchies, interests of the financial real estate market. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u90	Excuse me a second, Mrs. Garrido. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. It was impossible to follow the speaker, who was the only speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u91	In this sense, I would give you a data, in this case an important data: the first law on the right to housing is passed in Catalonia in 2007, and it does not do so by a right-wing government, but by the first left-wing government that exists, and the same happens in Euskadi. In Euskadi, in parallel with this bill in Catalonia, a bill is presented in Euskadi, which is vetoed by the Nationalist Party on the Governing Council, and it is not until 2015 that a bill on the right to housing is taken forward and, of course, not endorsed by the Nationalist Party. Therefore, some criticism must also be made, the State is late. That's the problem, it's too late. If, first, the common framework of the right to housing had been developed with a minimum law, with a law of a principled nature, the autonomous communities might have been able to exercise their housing competences more effectively, with greater legal certainty and thus allowing different political orientations. With regard to the last of the amendments, the amendment to the whole of the Republican Group is a text that we basically share. We share the content of that text, but I would also say - and I have acknowledged it - that the Catalan law of 2007 on the right to housing is perhaps one of the best laws in the State. In this regard, I would ask you all to make an effort to make that philosophy present in Catalonia a motor, to make it a tractor so that in the rest of the state there is also legislation that allows all Spanish women to exercise this right to housing; so I would ask you for a little solidarity and ask you, with a hand laid out, to work hard over the next few months to make this possible. In short, I believe that today we are positioning ourselves in front of those who do not want to make access to housing a right for everyone. Also in front of those who do not want to change anything, that does not change the status quo, that there is a real estate and financial oligarchy that decides where we live, under what conditions we live, when we can become independent or when we are forced to stay in the home of our parents. And we also position ourselves in front of those who are friends very close to the urbanistic balls, the urbanistic plots and the client networks. Therefore, this bill is a hope, a hope that responds not only to the obligations and mandates of the constitutional text, but also to the obligations reflected in the different international treaties that have been signed by the Spanish State. We could talk about the International Covenant on Economic Rights, the European Social Charter and many others. We need a housing law that complies with these international obligations and controls the abusive prices of rents in order to make housing affordable, to ensure security and stability in the enjoyment of housing - therefore secure and stable rents - and to finally fight against the scourge of the dispossessed without housing alternatives. So, hand out.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u92	Mrs. Garrido, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u93	Yeah. We hope that in the coming months we will be able to work hard and make this law an existing law and that it will be able to solve the problems of the right to housing. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last fall to approve the general budgets of the United States We demanded that his housing law, that retaliatory of populist measures and sophistications that were needed to justify themselves before his parish, be passed. On the income limitation, which is one of the star measures of this Bolivarian project, a year ago the then responsible minister, Mr Ábalos, refused to limit the rent and Podemos reminded him that the pact obliges him. [[Shows a press clipping in which you can see the former Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Ábalos Meco, and is read in a headline: 'Ábalos refuses to limit the rent and Podemos reminds him that ''the covenant obliges''']] In March, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs said that simplifying complex problems does not help us solve them. [[It shows another press clipping that sees the first vice president and minister of economic affairs and digital transformation, Calviño Santamaría, and reads in a headline: 'Calviño reiterates his opposition to limiting rents: ''Simplifying complex problems does not help us solve them'']] Already in July - the budgets are getting closer - former Minister Ábalos changes his mind and says that the rent increase in the tensioned areas must be limited to 10%. [[Shows another press clipping in which you can see the former Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Ábalos Meco, and reads in a headline: 'Ábalos proposes to limit the increase in rent in stressed areas to 10%.'- Rumors]] The Minister of Quota - the PSC quota, it is understood - comes to succeed him, Raquel Sánchez, who said that limiting the price of the rentals has not produced results. [[Shows another press clipping that reads in a headline: 'Raquel Sánchez: ''Limiting the rental price has not worked''.- Rumours]] But, of course, the pressures began and Podemos demands Raquel Sánchez to push the price control of the rents. [[Shows another press clipping in which you can see the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Sánchez Jiménez, and reads in a headline: 'We can demand Raquel Sánchez to boost the price control of rents as he did in Gava'.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u96	I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u97	Minister Sánchez, already a portfolio in hand, defends limiting rental prices. [[Shows another press clipping in which you can see the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Sánchez Jiménez, and is read in a headline: 'Raquel Sánchez defends limiting the prices of rent and federalism'.-Applause]] And the PSOE, who has been able to bargain even with the executioners of his own fellow rowers, tied the budgets of the ruin and brought us this uninhabitable housing law. Actually, gentlemen of the PSOE, it was not necessary because they had approved them equally. Here are the 'NATO no, bases out' grabbing your chair. They wouldn't have gone anywhere. Where are they going? In real estate, as in any other sector, price variations are a clear consequence of the basic law of supply and demand. In particular, in Spain, wild price rises, especially in rent, have taken place in large cities and tourist centres. And why? Because the supply has been unable to absorb demand. Public actions should encourage supply and not be totalitarian control measures. They begin with reference to article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. However, the Government has not understood the right itself nor that the mandate to guarantee this right is addressed to the public authorities, not to the citizens. [[Applauds]] When establishing restrictions on private property, the legislator must respect the fair balance between the means employed and the intended purpose. Income control, forced extensions, IBI surcharges of up to 150 %, protection of the okupas and tenants... With the measures contained in this bill, you have surpassed the just balance. A law aimed at guaranteeing access to housing, which - I repeat - is an obligation of the public authorities, cannot be fully supported by measures of interference in private property. It is not that we do not like interventionist measures, Mrs Garrido, but that they do not work and produce the opposite effect. By the way, Mrs Garrido, there is no title 47 of the Spanish Constitution. The Spanish Constitution has ten titles. [[Applauds]] On 27 January, the General Council of the Judiciary issued a report on this bill, which points to serious shortcomings, both in form and substance, a demolishing opinion that the Government of the Ruin has decided to ignore. International evidence, as in Berlin or Paris, confirms that income limitation achieves exactly the opposite effect. It achieves the creation of an illegal market; the reduction in the investment of rental housing, both for purchase and maintenance and rehabilitation; the reduction of workers' mobility; and the segmentation of the population according to their purchasing power. Because they don't think this is going to affect people with the greatest purchasing power. Those who will suffer, as always, are the humblest families and middle classes. [[Rumors]] These practical cases are well known and hence the negative assessment of the General Council of the Judiciary, since the Government has not carried out any assessment of the social benefits and disadvantages to justify the containment of income. They have not included in the bill an evaluation studying the impact of this measure because its negative impact is widely known. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u98	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Esteban. Forgive me for a moment. I have to ask for silence again, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, raising the IBI to 150% to those owners who have vacant homes is absurd. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that 70% of empty dwellings are in the depopulated areas, in Spain, which has been abandoned by the institutions. [[Applauds]] The poor supply of rented housing is justified by the lack of adequate land liberalization, the great public interventionism in the real estate market, the legal insecurity and - advancing on the left, it is placed in the first position - the legal protection and defencelessness of the owner before the okupas and the inqui okupas with the indolence of the public authorities. [[Applauds]] The solutions to the housing problem are found in the Agenda Spain: to free up all the land that is not or should be specially protected; to build public social housing under ownership or lease with option to purchase to ensure that young people and families can acquire a home, especially those with fewer resources; to review and reduce massive taxes and burdens in the building process; and to reform both the Criminal Code and the Criminal Prosecution and Civil Prosecution laws to protect real and effective owners. Housing, ladies and gentlemen, is a social good and with basic notions of economy, a lot of legal certainty and less populism we will be able to make policies that increase supply, and we know how to do that. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u101	Madam President, thank you very much. Minister, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in this plenary six amendments to the entire draft law on the right to housing or, which is the same, we are debating whether or not Congress agrees that the State should give the right to housing recognized in article 47 of the Constitution an effective legislative development that gives it effective content throughout the national territory. That's what's at stake here today. This bill is not an isolated measure, but, together with many others - such as the young bonus, the promotion of more than 100,000 housing units for social rent or the increase in the state budget for housing by almost 600 % - is part of a far-reaching policy. Socialists make a decisive contribution to consolidating the four welfare states: education, health, pensions and social services. And now we are convinced that the time has come to mobilize all the public authorities for the construction of a fifth pillar of the welfare state, which will ensure in a definitive way a decent and adequate housing for all the citizens of this country. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that there are many obstacles and difficulties in this endeavour, as there have already been in the consolidation of the rest of the pillars, but in this case these difficulties are even greater for the economic interests at stake. We are also convinced that there is a social cry for us to move forward and overcome all barriers. Finally, housing has been given the importance it has, because a dignified life cannot be undertaken without having secured a roof in which to develop a project of life; and the intervention of the State is necessary, because the market itself has not been able to satisfy this demand no longer only social, but also vital. That is why it is crucial that today we ensure that this bill is dealt with, because it is the fundamental axis of everything we are trying to build. The political forces that have tabled amendments to the whole claim various reasons. I'll focus on batting two of them. Some say, those representing the political right, that the bill invades the right to private property, distorts the rental market, causes legal uncertainty, drives investment away and contracts supply. They are the usual arguments for discrediting any attempt by the public authorities to regulate the housing market. No, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that the public park of social housing cannot be disposed of, as this bill says, is not to create legal insecurity; it is to ensure that you cannot resell social housing to vulture funds. [[Applauds]] And, no, Your Honor, establishing price containment mechanisms in areas where the market makes access to housing impossible is not an unacceptable interference by the State in a rational market that works beautifully, but a measure aimed at guaranteeing what our Constitution points out, the right to access to decent and adequate housing for the general public. [[Applauds]] And, no, Your Honor, empowering the municipalities to impose a surcharge on the IBI for dwellings of large owners that remain unwarrantedly empty is not an attack on private property; it is to fight against the nonsense that supposes that hundreds of thousands of people live together without access to a dwelling with hundreds of thousands of dwellings that remain empty without any justification beyond real estate speculation, against which, moreover, public authorities must be mobilized as mandated by our Constitution. And, no, ladies and gentlemen of the right, the market has been calling for a prudent but courageous regulation for many years to ensure that the stratospheric gains of a few do not impede access to housing for many others, especially the younger ones. [[Rumors]] The other reason for submitting the amendment as a whole is the alleged invasion of competition. We are aware at all times of autonomous competition in housing. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u102	I'm sorry, Mrs. Bravo. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u103	The bill is not going to impose an obligation on the Autonomous Communities, but rather the possibility of implementing some of the measures it contains. It draws attention to the fact that the People's Party, whose autonomous governments have already said that they are not going to implement important parts of this law in their autonomous communities - because, moreover, this is provided for by the bill for the sake of respect for the competition areas - claims in turn to be a competitive invasion of the State. Look at what, camouflaged after a supposed competition debate, is happening here today. What is happening is that the same People's Party that has resorted to Catalan housing laws by considering the matter of state competition now says that it is autonomously competent to oppose its processing. [[Applauds]] Does that make sense? More sense than it seems, because to what the right is aspired to is that the Constitutional Court decides that the central aspects of this law can only be regulated by the State and cannot be regulated by the autonomous communities and, at the same time, that the State does not process this bill, because what interests them is that this normative vacuum continues to exist in order to continue speculating with the housing. [[Applauds]] I encourage groups that agree with the political orientation of this bill and that have reservations about the competition issue not to fall into the trap of the right. We will negotiate in the process of amendments to adapt the bill...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u104	Mrs. Bravo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u105	Let us allow the bill to move forward, because, if it does not, we will have missed a historic opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u107	With regard to item 29 of the agenda, concerning the proposal by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote on the draft law amending Law 23/2011 of 21 July 2011 on the Legal Deposit, I inform you that this point has fallen due to the withdrawal of the request for a legal notice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u108	We move on to the agenda item on the request of the Commission on Health and Consumption to extend the deadline for the conclusion of the work of the Sub-Commission with a view to analysing experiences in regulating cannabis for medicinal use until 30 June 2022. That request shall be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of this meeting. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We vote, first of all, on non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on deflating the tax rate on the income of natural persons. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. [[Rumors]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; 144 plus 6 telematics votes, 150; 158 plus 6 telematics votes, 164; abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u110	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u111	No bill proposed by the Socialist and Basque parliamentary groups to entrust the Ombudsman with the creation of an independent commission with the task of drawing up a report on complaints of sexual abuse in the field of the Catholic Church and the role of the public authorities. [[EAJ-PNV]] It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematic votes, 339; 277 plus 9 telematic votes, 286; 49 plus 2 telematic votes, 51; abstentions, 1 plus 1 telematic vote, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u112	It's approved. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Republican, of some Members of the Joint and Plural parliamentary groups, and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u113	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the steps that the Government is going to take to ensure that its strategy and measures against VID-19 are based on science and not opportunism. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; 142 plus 6 telematics votes, 148; 184 plus 6 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u114	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u115	Motion following urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the functions of interministerial coordination in relation to the divestments to the independence parties. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; 94 plus 4 telematics votes, 98; 187 plus 6 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 46 plus 2 telematics votes, 48.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u116	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u117	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the convening of the debate on the state of the nation. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Citizens' parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 310 plus 12 telematics votes, 322; against, 15; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u118	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u119	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 2/2022 of 22 February, adopting urgent measures for the protection of self-employed workers, for the transition to structural mechanisms for the defence of employment and for the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma, and extending certain measures to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; 278 plus 10 telematics votes, 288; abstentions, 49 plus 2 telematics votes, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u120	The royal decree law is validated. The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; 160 plus 6 telematics votes, 166; 165 plus 6 telematics votes, 171; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u121	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u122	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law adopting urgent preventive and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19, submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; 8 plus 1 telematics vote, 9; 272 plus 11 telematics votes, 283; abstentions, 47.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u123	The amendment is rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u124	Voting of the motion for a ruling by the plenary of the House on the deliberation and final vote of the bill adopting urgent measures of prevention and containment to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 12 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 315 plus 12 telematics votes, 327; against, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u125	The bill is now before the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u126	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the bill for the right to housing, tabled by the Parliamentary Groups Citizens, Popular in Congress, Plural and Basque [[Mr Bel Accensi and Mrs Illamola Dausà]] [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; 155 plus 6 telematics votes, 161; 168 plus 6 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u127	Amendments to the refund are rejected. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law on the right to housing, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 28; against, 288 plus 12 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u128	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.-Applause of the members of the Government present]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u129	Voting of requests for avocados by the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final vote on the bill for the right to housing, submitted by the Republican and Plural Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 12 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 327 plus 11 telematics votes, 338; against, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u130	The bill is now before the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u131	New point. Request for extension of subcommissions. Voting on the Health and Consumer Committee's request to extend the deadline for the completion of the subcommittee's work in order to analyse the experience of regulating cannabis for medicinal use until 30 June 2022. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 327 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 327 votes in favour and 339 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-10-CD220310.u132	The extension to the subcommission was approved. Thank you very much for the silence until the last moment. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was two and five minutes in the afternoon.
