ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u1	Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u2	Thank you, President. Mr President, pay a basket of the shot purchase, pay the receipts of light and gas, pay the mortgage, pay the return to the most expensive school in history, the Spaniards have clear priorities, but what does the President of the Government offer them? A carnival of rectifications and occurrences. Now that you can't even go out on the street and you have to organize those guided tours of the Moncloa, have you heard what the real needs of the Spaniards are? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome to this new session, Mrs Gamarra. This is what we have been doing throughout the legislature, Your Honor, we have had to face a pandemic, now the economic and social effects of the war that you shirk in your criticism of the government's action, to worry about people, about the working middle class, about those groups that have become more vulnerable. This is what we have done by raising the interprofessional minimum wage, guaranteed by law that indexes the evolution of pensions to the CPI, in the debate of the state of the nation we have announced measures of direct aid to the sectors concerned, selective reductions of tax to the middle working class. To all that you, Your Honor, have voted no. Therefore, the question would have to be, are you really thinking of the Spanish when you vote no to the measures that benefit the middle and working class of this country? [[Applauds]] We must protect the incomes of the middle and working class of this country and, on the other hand, we must speak of a fair sharing of the economic and social effects of the war in our country. And it is not that you voted that not yesterday, Your Honor, is that you vote that not even until this House debates that large financial entities and large energy corporations have a tax on extraordinary profits when they are benefiting from this so critical situation that they are going through the working middle class of our country. With this, Your Honor, yesterday it became clear that the electoral programme of the People's Party is the programme of the great energies of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u6	Mr President, tax revenues have risen by 18% in the last seven months, that is to say, you have at your disposal EUR 22 billion more coming from the pockets of the Spanish as a direct effect of inflation triggered in 10.5. Since you are talking about supporting the middle class and the working class, why do you not apply the measures we have asked of you in the People's Party to return to the citizens that excess collection? Why do you not study lowering the VAT on meat, fish or other products from the shopping cart? Why does he refuse to deflate the IRPF for income below 40,000 euros - there are the middle and working classes - but he does support it for the Basque Country? Why is energy saving not encouraged by billing bonuses? Let me tell you this: you are now only focused on the resistance to the head of a government that lives only in the permanent contradiction, with the wrong partners and every day further away from the people. The people, the Spaniards, live with amazement how the attacks and disqualifications between the members of the government themselves, the PSOE and Podemos, have become a daily war, whether one day for the top of the prices of the shopping basket or for the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO. By the way, Mr Sánchez, will you vote in favour of this all of your united government tomorrow? Not at all? What an international image it is giving the host of the NATO summit! Mr Sánchez, you talk about proposals and there they are, we have raised them. It proposes to the People's Party measures, real solutions for real Spain, which you cannot tread on, but which calls for solutions and fewer confrontations and fewer disqualifications. Abandon that strategy against the People's Party and you will accept. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, I really don't know why I'm fighting. I don't know why I'm fighting. [[Rumors]] It makes a blush, it takes out even the NATO summit, Your Honor, simply not to say why they oppose the House's debate on two charges to the big financial institutions and the big energy corporations of this country, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] You forget to say that until 31 December this government will transfer 30 billion euros in public resources to protect the middle and working class of our country. Money has a lot of power, ladies and gentlemen, but power in a democracy is that of the social majority. This government will defend the social majority of this country, but not as you did when you ruled, which put all public institutions at the service of a powerful minority. We will put all public institutions and all public resources at the service of the majority of the social class in this country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: THE CLIMATE LEGISLATION IMPOSED TO EXPLOIT OUR RESOURCES IN ENERGY CRISIS? [[File number 180/001010]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u9	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u10	Mr. Sanchez, good morning. This is going to be the hardest winter in decades for the Spaniards. Families are gripped by the loss of purchasing power. Inflation on commodities is out of the question. The fiscal pressure you hold against the Spaniards is abusive and unfair. The house is a luxury for more and more Spaniards. Young people think about forming a family, but that's a chimera. Light and gas are directly remunerable for low rents, but also for middle rents. The Spanish have become poorer over these five years more than the rest of the Europeans, and that has happened to you in Moncloa. That is why we have come to tell you that today you have to explain all those who, for example, have made propaganda against nuclear power plants, those who shut down the financed Garoña nuclear power plant, those who have bet on the blasting of thermal power plants and those who have held it on the boards of the electricity companies. Those who, like you, have given up on foreign policy as a whimsical autocrat, causing, among other things, the drop in the import of Algerian gas and the import of Russian gas right now, in addition to a new migratory invasion. But, above all, the honourable Members who in this House have supported a climate law that prohibits the Spanish from exploring and exploiting their own energy resources, condemning them to energy dependence as a nation and to energy poverty as a Spaniard. You try to ridicule the nuclear solution by saying it's for a decade or two, but it comes with a pin in the 2030 Agenda flap and presented us here with the 2050 Agenda for twenty-five years. We have the Spain Agenda for today, the Spain Agenda for now. This Government can now decide to reopen the Garoña nuclear power plant. This government can stop the blasting of thermal power plants and this Parliament can vote tomorrow for the repeal of climate law, which is suicide for the Spanish. Don't listen to us, ask people instead of taking pictures with people, who are doing so badly. Use article 92 of the Constitution and consult the Spaniards if they want to continue paying the most expensive energy or if they want to explore their own natural resources. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, there are two crises we need to remedy. One is, of course, the energy crisis, which is shifting to the evolution of prices and also food. This Government shares the House's concern about price developments and, above all, how it is affecting the shopping basket and middle-class and working-class households in this country. We are putting remedies and proposals, not only in Spain but also in Europe. But there are two crises to which we have to respond and we have to give them in a coherent way, Your Honor. One is the Putin crisis, indeed, and the other is the climate crisis, to which you have referred. The answers have to be consistent, Your Honor. I, when I hear you, wonder if you really defend Spain. Do you really defend Spain? Do you really defend the field of Spain, which is being desertificationed as a result of climate change, which you deny? Do you really defend the water of our country, our rivers, which are running out of water precisely because of the climate emergency, which you deny? Are you really defending the air of our country, which is taking more and more lives as a result of the worst air quality resulting from a climate emergency, which you deny? Are you really defending the indigenous energy of our country, which is renewable energy, which is the sun and the wind, Your Honor? [[Rumors]] You strive every time you can opt for energies that come from other countries, which we have to import from other countries. [[Rumors]] You do not defend Spain, you defend other interests that are the interests of those above. You do not defend the interests of the middle-class and working-class pocket of this country. [[Applauds]] Given the two questions you have raised, in the Spanish political system we clearly have two rights: a right that denies climate change - like you - and another right that does not say that there is no climate change but acts as if there is no climate change, which is the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u13	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u14	Solve your democratic and legitimate crisis and ask the Spaniards if they want to continue consuming Algerian gas, Putin gas, French nuclear energy and dirty energy from Morocco or if they want to explore Spain's own energy. Okay. Very good, isn't it? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u16	Mr Abascal, this government is going to continue to respond to the energy crisis stemming from the Putin war in Ukraine consistent with a larger crisis that we have behind us, which is the climate emergency. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT TAKES SufficiENT MEASURES TO HELP THE PEOPLE WHAT'S WRONG WITH IT? [[File number 180/001002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u17	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. Do you think that the government, your government, is really helping people who are going through the worst? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u20	Thank you, Madam President. All aid in these circumstances, at this juncture, is little, it is little, but this government, ladies and gentlemen, if we stick to the numbers and compare them with the resources that are being placed in the hands of the working middle class in other European governments, or rather in other European countries, I believe that these are the figures. It is 30 billion euros, i.e. more than 2 points of gross domestic product that we have been deploying until 31 December to defend this middle and working class. And we have done so, Your Honor, first by transferring economic resources to the most disadvantaged sectors. I am thinking, for example, of the primary sector or the transport sector. We are also doing this to those families and to those most vulnerable social groups; I am thinking, for example, of the announcement we made in the debate on the state of the nation, in which it was approved to raise the scholarships to students by 200 euros so that their families do not have to give up their sons and daughters being able to continue their studies. And, thirdly, we are doing so, as the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, with selective tax cuts for the benefit of the middle and working classes. We are also doing so, Your Honor, at European level. Yesterday there was an important proposal made by the European Commission that validates many of the proposals that Spain has been advocating for some time in this part. Valid, for example, the intervention and reform of the electricity market, endorses the proposal to create taxes on oil companies and gas companies, also poses a reduction in the revenue of renewables, plant a top to gas imported from Russia... Finally, Your Honor, he proposes interventions that the Spanish Government has been defending for almost a year at Brussels level. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we can conclude, with all humility and with all the difficulty that we have before us, there is no more credible government in Europe right now than the Spanish Government. In that sense, of course I appreciate... [[Laughter]] I don't know why you're laughing, ladies and gentlemen, it is. The great paradox is that precisely yesterday the European Commission launched the proposal to create two new taxes and here the People's Party refuses even to debate in the House the creation of these new taxes at European level. [[Applauds]] In any case, Your Honor, what I want to say to you with this is that these proposals are going to be extended as long as this crisis lasts and I am grateful, in any case, for your group's support for the measures that we are coming... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is true that, as you know and have said, we have supported many of your initiatives, but we have always considered that they share two characteristics. They're usually good, very fond, and they're usually not brave. For example, what is the point of approving a labour reform that, it is true, creates more and more indefinite, but increasingly precarious? 60% of indefinite contracts are part-time. What's the point? What's the point of notifying people about the train, that the train is free, if you leave it lying? What's the point? So they're on the free platform, right? Almost half a million people take the train, close by, in Barcelona and get thrown away almost every morning. What good is it, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr President, to talk - all right, that sounds very good - about a cheaper shopping basket? What good is it if you don't even talk to each other, if even some don't talk to your party? What's the point? It serves nothing, it serves above all to frustrate and to disappoint and frustration and disappointment, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, is the cryptonite of the left and, above all, it is the gasoline of the right, of the right, have the flag they have. A few months ago I told them about the price of melons, watermelons, ultimately the price of food - to some it sounded like Chinese - and I told them I was probably going to crush them. Today I'm talking about mortgages, interest rates. Today there are already people with the same fear that ten or fifteen years ago to receive the receipt of their mortgage. Interest rates are estimated to rise to 3 % or 4 %. This means that someone who, for example, now pays 500 euros of mortgage can get to pay 1000 euros, and this can get to them. Proposal: rescue fund, mortgage rescue fund for families who can no longer pay it. Ladies and gentlemen, do it because, if not, these people are getting stronger and stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU REALLY THINK INFLATION HAS STARTED TO MODE? [[File number 180/001012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u23	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u24	With all due respect, Your Honor. Madam Vice-President, you have often said that inflation was a transitory thing. Today the price rise continues to open, reaching 10,5%. I ask you, how can you remain in the ministry without asking all the Spanish for forgiveness, Your Honor? Electricity accumulates up by 121% and 110% fuels while you, through higher taxes, collect EUR 22.3 billion and do not lower taxes, but, as Mr Sánchez has said, bring more. In the end, it turns out that Moncloa has extra profits at the expense of the Spaniards. This cannot go on like this, Madam Vice-President. Change course, accept Feijóo's proposals, fight inflation, lower taxes and the IRPF, effectively execute European funds and lower the costs of its government, which now has twenty-two ministries and hundreds of advisors and new appointments, by the way, in the National Securities Market Commission, elected and appointed until 2026. That is the example you are setting. Change course immediately, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u25	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u26	Thank you very much, President. The question you asked, Mr Rojas, was whether I really believe inflation has begun to moderate. It is that you talk about economic issues as if they were a matter of faith or belief, rather than looking at the data, and the data on the August annual and inter-monthly rates of variation show a moderation in inflation, which has also led us to reduce the differential with our partners and the euro area. The European Central Bank and the Bank of Spain, which are the competent authorities in the field of inflation, expect inflation to continue to moderate in the coming months. But, as the President of the Government has pointed out, we are facing an energy crisis caused by the Putin war and, in addition, longer-term crises, including climate change. That is why we have taken action at national level and we are pushing for a European response to a global issue, inflation affecting all Western economies. From a national point of view, we have lowered taxes, Mr Rojas, we have lowered VAT, we have lowered excise duties on energy. In addition, we have adopted a gas cap to lower average prices, which are placing wholesale prices in Spain well below the countries in our environment. We have made the transport of nearnesses and rollers free of charge. We've supported the middle class. We have improved the fuels, and you have voted against all these measures. I wish we had an acceptable opposition with the rest of Europe, to support ourselves at this very complex moment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u27	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u28	Madam Vice-President, what you have done is copy some of the measures proposed to you by the People's Party, but you have to do more and put them all in place, because, if not, you are late, Your Honor. [[rumors.-Laughter]] And you, of course, do not do an exercise here of humility. You do not apologize to the Spanish, Your Honor, for the situation. You know what the situation is on the street. Do you know what the European Union Court of Auditors is denouncing, which says that we are the last to implement European funds? Will you explain, Your Honor? The PERTE announced by the President of the Government a while ago are crumbling. Meet with the automotive industry, there's a very serious problem and you don't want to see it, Your Honor. This is the problem; electricity is paid triple that last year and the gas cap is a bump in the bill of all the Spaniards that is now more expensive. The mortgages are coming up, their partners tell them, the People's Party tells them, and the reality tells them, because it's the one. The shopping basket is still fired with the biggest climb in thirty-seven years, Your Honor, and you come here to talk about optimism! Indeed, take a conscientious examination and take action in your Government. And what have you done? They have denied the situation and have commissioned a film, ladies and gentlemen, of life in Moncloa. What little decency and little respect for the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen. They have to start taking action that works, they have to start talking, they have to start ruling. Stop fighting each other, for the shame and scorn of all the Spaniards. Go to rule and give effect to the economy... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u30	Thank you, President. The proposals of the People's Party... what do you say, the cartula with some blank leaflets that Mr. Feijoo presented a week ago? The clipboard you guys presented this Monday? But if all your proposals are measures that are already under way, that we have ruled out because they are inviable or inappropriate, or proposals that we are delighted to discuss, but that do not guarantee that you will vote in favour! But if we are asked to extend the VAT reduction, when they voted against it! But if the proposals they make are absolutely inconsistent! [[Applauds]] I wish we had an acceptable opposition with the European People's Party, which is proposing what the Spanish Government is doing, helping the middle and working classes; taking effective measures to lower the cost of energy; imposing taxes on those energy companies that are receiving extraordinary benefits in this context; those taxes that you are not opposed to, are refusing to debate them in this room! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU THINK THE SPANISH TRUSTED IN THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/001009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u32	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, on social media, many memes, many jokes, many hoaxes are circulating and, therefore, you have to be very careful about what you are told to do. So, yesterday, when I was sent this, I thought it was a joke. [[shows a document]] It turns out that here she says that the first vice president highlights the strength of the Spanish economy. And I say, man, this has to be a meme. It cannot be true; it cannot be so detached from reality. But then I looked at it and it turns out it's the last official press release of his ministry. And here we talk about the strength of the Spanish economy, on every page, of strong growth, of how well things are going, let's go. I, I'm curious, this martianada that the Spaniards are not seeing the reality, that their official reality goes on one side and the Spaniards on the other, do you really believe this? Do you believe that the Spanish can rely on the economic policy of this government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u35	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I say to you the same as to the People's Party, that this is not a question of belief, it is a question of data, and the most recent economic data show us a Spanish economy that recovered strongly in 2021 and that has maintained growth above 6% in the first half of this year. Social Security membership remains dynamic in September. The outlook for all economic bodies is for economic growth of 4% or more this year. This is a strong growth of the Spanish economy. That we're in a moment of uncertainty? Absolutely. And in this context do you know what to do? To be united, to avoid transferring fears and falsehoods to Spanish citizens and to try to take effective measures to protect citizens, to protect families and to protect businesses. That, Your Honor, is what the Government of Spain is doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u36	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u37	Minister, in life there are lies, serious lies and then statistics from the Ministry of Economy. [[Rumors]] I mean, I listen to her and I wonder if you really believe, really - I don't think so - that the Spanish on foot, who suffer daily the consequences of their disastrous management, are willing, above all, to have you fool them. Do you think this is a grace to come here to Parliament and say that the data is different from what the Spanish are seeing every day? Do you believe that there may be both unemployment, people who do not find work, and entrepreneurs who do not find workers for the world of construction, for the world of hospitality, or many jobs for which there is no relief? You have managed simultaneously to make sure that in the countryside, in the sea and in the whole primary sector you are at the worst time in the last 50 years. You have got Spain to be at the tail of recovery. As much as you say it is growing, Spain is one of the last countries in the world, not Europe, in the world, to achieve pre-crisis income levels. We have not yet regained the previous level, Minister. We are at two-digit inflation levels, with the shopping basket above 15%; things that the Spaniards had only seen in the news from third world countries. You get to fill the tank of the car, the delivery van, the tractor or the tank of the fishing boat cost more than ever in history, taking all the margin of the self-employed working in the primary sector; that taxes continue to rise and that the government's collection continues to rise, while the Spaniards earn less and less. Look, the Spaniards don't trust you anymore; it's impossible for them to trust you. The Spaniards only know and trust that we will move forward when we leave them behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u38	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u39	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros, hot cloths, none, but speech of fear, neither. Because that is the discourse in which the extreme positions, the populist and ultra-right positions that are going to end up destroying European democracy are fed if, among all of us, we do not do everything we can to support the citizens, to explain the policy we do and to use the real data, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Spain has more than 20 million people affiliated with Social Security, less than 3 million unemployed, and half of the contracts are indefinite because of labour reform. In short, it is very clear that the economic policy we have been following is the right one for our country. The Spanish trust our Government much more than they trust in their lies, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, as they trust our partners and as they trust the European Commission, international institutions and international investors, who confirm it to us week after week. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, week after week, you ask me the same question and I have to answer you the same way: data, realities, the discourse of trust and not the discourse of fear. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President, Prime Minister, OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT MEASURES WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE TO PLAY THE CONSEQUENCES FOR CITIZENSHIP THAT WILL HAVE THE NEW SUBJECT TYPES, TO 1.25 %, ACTUALIZED BY THE ECB? [[File number 180/001004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u40	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, last July I put to you an inquiry, which subsequently led to a motion, in the face of a reality that already affected 3.7 million households, those who were subject to the so-called variable mortgages, that is, the rise in interest rates. Today, the reality, following the announcement by the European Central Bank to raise interest rates by 1.25 %, is even more threatening to the dignity of these vital projects: if we talked about increases between 52 and 96 euros before, today we can talk about increases between 124 and 288 euros a month. In view of this reality, what measures will the Government take to alleviate the consequences for citizens of the rise in rates up to 1.25 % by the European Central Bank?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u42	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u43	Thank you, President. Mr Matute, you know very well that monetary policy and the fight against inflation is the responsibility of the European Central Bank, and I have no doubt that when we debate at the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, the Governor of the Bank of Spain, who is our representative and who makes the right decisions, he considers not only the fight against inflation, but also the possible impact of those decisions on growth, the creation of employment, the incomes of Spanish families. In any case, euribor is increasing, as is logical in a context of interest rate rise and normalisation by the European Central Bank, but it is still at much lower levels than has been achieved at other times in our history. In addition, the indebtedness of families and businesses is much lower than other times in our history. We have a private sector with a better financial position, among other reasons, for all the measures we take to respond to the pandemic, which have strengthened business balance sheets and strengthened family incomes. It is clear that rising interest rates can have an impact on a certain number of families and we have taken many steps. You will remember in the previous legislature the Mortgage Law, precisely to facilitate the change of variable-rate mortgages at fixed rate; we have promoted a code of good practice with the financial sector to boost write-offs, debt restructuring and facilitate the lives of families. From the Government we will follow the same line: working to protect families and support the middle and working class of our country, which is what we have been doing for more than four years, and that is what I believe it has to do to make a responsible government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u44	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u45	Thank you very much, President. Compared to medieval times, we are probably better off, but I think it's about looking at the future and not the past, because if we tell people that the European Central Bank, which has just raised interest rates by 1.25%, is who is thinking and watching over their purchasing capacity and their ability to meet their debts, we're wrong. The reality is that 40% of the family budget is already earmarked for mortgage payments, 50% for households with fewer resources. The reality is that the banks took €60.6 billion from the public coffers to heal themselves and have not returned a hard one, unlike Germany or France; the reality is that the banks have won last year €20 billion in profits and not anything else; the reality is that the banks owe the State tax credits through Finance €55 billion. That is the reality that citizens see. They probably understand the bank tax as positive, but they also know that the bank tax has an impact of 1.5 billion. Compare the 60.6 billion euros that the bank took away for free from the pockets of all and all with the 1.5 million euros that the state will receive. We sincerely say to them that we believe that much more needs to be done, that we must dare to ask them to cancel the expected increase in mortgages and, if they do not want to do so, we must generate an express procedure, such as that of the express evictions, but in this case to recover the 60,600 million euros to the bank. They will have to be required to have a code of good practice - because it seems that banking does need this, that of good practice - so that it does not impact on the rise; the real estate market will have to intervene, and it will have to end evictions for all those people without housing alternatives. In short, that is to stand on the side of the people, that is to be advanced of the rights and dignity of the social and popular majorities and not, on the contrary, fortitude of the privileges of a few. Mark Twain said it with great certainty: The banker is a gentleman who lends us the umbrella when there is sun and demands it when it begins to rain. It is time for citizens to find umbrellas in front of the greed of bankers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u46	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u47	Thank you, President. Mr Matute, we are perfectly aware of the difficulties of families. We are facing a war, we are in a context of inflation that comes from outside, but against which we have to react and respond in a determined way, thinking of containing the rise in prices, of supporting families and businesses and of having a fair share of the cost of war, and that is what we have been doing. This EUR 30 billion in support of families, all measures to increase the inter-professional minimum wage, to improve employment and the quality of employment, to increase pensions, to increase minimum living income, are all aimed precisely at alleviating the financial situation of families, and we are going to continue in the same direction. In the same way that the new Mortgage Law reduced the costs of changing a variable-rate mortgage to a fixed rate, precisely to protect us from this situation, and in the same way that we continue to constantly improve the code of good practice of banks to strengthen the protection of citizens. That's what we're on, Mr. Matute. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JUAN DIEGO REQUENA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WILL THE REAL DECRETE LAW 10/2022 OF THE MECHANISM CALLED THE 'IBERIC EXCEPTION' TO AVOID THEIR NEGATIVE EFFECTS? [[File number 180/001013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u49	Questions addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Juan Diego Requena Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u50	Mrs. Calviño, the only accredited blank page here is Mr. Sanchez's thesis. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But let's go with you, Mrs Ribera, let's go with your failures. First, in Europe the Iberian exception is so bad that no one wants to copy it because it is expensive and triggers gas consumption. [[A honourable Member: False!]] Secondly, we have subsidized France with almost 550 million euros and by the end of the year it will be 1000, and the worst of all is that during August 96% of the purchase of gas to France has been fired to return it then subsidized electricity. How brilliant you are, Mrs Ribera, that we bought the most expensive gas in history and returned subsidized electricity! Third, thanks to you we need to buy twice as much gas as last year to produce electricity, twice as much. His Iberian exception has caused us to have to buy more liquefied gas from Russia and we are the number one in Europe. Without the Iberian exception there would be no need for Russian gas. You are responsible for financing Putin,, to finance the war in 19 billion euros since June 15. [[strong rumors]] [[Applauds]] Fourthly, all their failures have an impact, and they have it on families, SMEs and self-governing. Look, six out of ten households already pay the Iberian exception on their bills, because, even if you stick otherwise, the Iberian exception comes out expensive and millions of consumers are paying it with a new charge. [[shows a press clipping]] I don't know if you don't tell this, but I get hundreds of anonymous citizens' bills every day that have been turned on by 50, 60 or 70%.These are their charges. [[shows several bills of light]] Mrs Ribera, the Iberian exception was a failure you knew and the European Commission has told you. The French Minister of Economy mocks his government and says that the light in France will rise when the Iberian exception ends. The question is, are you going to rectify the gas cap? Thank you. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u51	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u52	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. As my Government partner, I will refer to the data because, beyond the general comments, it is important to take account of the data. The next day 15 will be three months after we apply the Iberian exception, and the Spanish citizens, the Spanish economy has already saved 23 billion euros; 23 billion euros is a very important figure, but it is also important the difference in the price in the wholesale electricity market in Spain and Portugal and the price in the rest of the Member States of the European Union. Every day a map comes out. There is a difference of between 30 and 40 %, even by incorporating the adjustment, because we cannot force companies to sell at a loss. Even if we take into account what the future market estimate is, the estimated cost of electricity in France will be multiplied by five in the last quarter and the estimated cost of electricity in Germany will be multiplied by three in the last quarter. I think it's good data, it worked. I believe that, in fact, despite the fact that we obviously have to continue working at national and European level, and despite the fact that the European Union today understands, accepts and demands very similar measures, we must continue to think with restraint, with prudence, how to continue to accompany the industrial fabric and the Spanish families. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u53	Mr. Requena.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u54	Mrs Ribera, remove the gas subsidy, return to consumers the theft of the Iberian exception, apologize and explain why they have to pay an 80% charge on their invoices. When we have told you from the People's Party or the European Union that the Iberian exception would be a failure, only in the CNMC have you found an ally, which we fear is due to your few exemplary personal relations, as the press recalled today. This is no longer a failure, it is a thyme, where you are the timadora and the citizens smitten, who do not deserve such an inept government. We just need to know what his dark interests are. They already have a script: the People's Party's energy plan. Follow him and don't fail anymore. Thank you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u55	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u56	For I will try again to respond with calmness and data and not with insidia, lies or insults, which seems to be what characterizes them, apart from copying or discarding what others do. [[applause.-Protests]] I return to the Iberian mechanism that interests you so much, because it has a lot of something that is forgotten to you, and it is that, unfortunately, in the driest year for many decades of Spain and Portugal, Spain has had to supply 25% of the electricity consumed in Portugal. Because of the catastrophic state in which the French nuclear park is located, France is importing everything it can from all neighbouring countries. Even under these conditions, ensuring solidarity in supply, the security of electricity supply to our neighbours, our prices have been far below what they would have been in the absence of that mechanism. It is true that we have to save electricity and we have to save gas, and it would be very good if instead of making proclamations and winks in the sun or, as her partner, the President of the Madrid Community, denying climate change, were put to work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u57	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT ARE YOU EXPLORING THE GOVERNMENT TO IMPROVEMENT [[EAJ-PNV]] PRODUCTIVITY AND OPTIMIZATION OF GREEN ENERGY? [[File number 180/001006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u58	Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u59	Thank you, President. In the current context it is more necessary than ever to diversify the energy mix, to save energy, to strengthen solidarity with Europe, to increase energy autonomy and to have stable and predictable prices, and in order to achieve this, Vice-President, we are going to urge you to take structural measures and we are going to propose something to you. It is necessary to optimise all infrastructures, integrate all the renewable energies available, but this is not enough and it is not simply possible to accelerate renewables, but it is necessary to put demand at the centre of regulation, especially in order to move to a distributed generation model, where consumers and customers can make their own decisions. Existing electrical interconnections must be accelerated, but also strengthened the capacity, for example, of the Irun pipeline, through an additional compressor, to increase the export volume, because that is also efficiency and contributes to solidarity; regulating energy communities, creating a community among those who need energy but do not have energy resources in their territories and those who do have them so that they can be exporters. But this requires regulation that avoids the uncertainty of these energy communities and solves once and for all this lack of capacity at the network connection points cobbled by the big ones, which hinder their development. Because these communities have clear competitive advantages: they optimize energy costs, stabilize prices, achieve social cohesion and increase energy autonomy compared to the centralized generation, a model, that of distributed generation, that can make the industry very competitive. Precisely this pattern of distributed generation could also apply to the railway network, which have large areas to install photovoltaics or generation plants, not only so that operators save on their bill by feeding their own demand for energy, but also to be able to sell those surpluses and even to make their consumption decisions and, why not, self-consumption, which now cannot because regulation prevents it. We should regulate the figure of the independent demand aggregator and allow the grouping of consumers with a single border point, structural measures that can lead, we believe, in the medium term to a clear competitive advantage for the industry, but also for the citizenry. We believe that these measures are in the right direction and could perhaps be implemented. That is why, and in this current context, Vice-President, what we are asking you is what measures the Government is exploring to improve productivity and also the optimization of all green energies.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u60	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u61	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I thank you very much for your question because you have made a very systematic and interesting review of the measures that have been in our portfolio, in our agenda, and that are part of what I believe has been the frontline of the change in energy policy in this country since 2018. We know that we are talking about innovation, industry, employment, cost reduction, predictability and cost stability, attraction to investors, modernization of our productive fabric, new industrial opportunities, and that the change in our energy system goes far beyond the color change of electrons and molecules, and that all these things are needed that you have shown and more. In many of them we have made progress, in many of them we have done it in the domestic sphere, in others we have been promoting reforms in this direction, both in the bilateral relationship with France and in the European context, and I think they are bearing fruit. In fact, when one observes the evolution data of the main renewable energies, one realizes the extent to which it has been incorporated and understood by investors and citizens. As far as we go from the year 2022 has been installed as much self-consumption as ten times what existed in June 2018, when we arrived at the government, the result of stability, of regulatory ease, although obviously still pending developments and regulations that facilitate the definitive deployment of these local energy communities. Something similar has happened to photovoltaic plants, which have multiplied by 261 % compared to installed capacity in June 2018, or wind, which has multiplied by 26 % compared to installed capacity in 2018. The regulatory framework is fundamental. The fact that gas pollutes the price of electricity and this ultimately pollutes the energy system is not good. Therefore, working in Europe to change regulatory conditions is key. It is true that in the interconnections with France we must bet on that new compressor, on the full performance of the two existing pipelines, and we must work on electrical storage and on hydrogen, green hydrogen, taking advantage of the real, indigenous resources of this country, with energy security, with security for people, with environmental security and responding to that climate crisis that some of our right-wing colleagues deny exists. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u62	Mrs. Sagastizabal, do you want to make use of the time you have left? [[Denial]] Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT NECESSARY TO A REDUCTION OF TAXES THAT PROTECT FAMILY? [[File number 180/001008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u63	Thank you very much. Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u64	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, 61% of Spaniards earn less than EUR 21,000 and, because of this hidden tax, which is inflation, they are now 10,5% poorer than last year, but their collection anxiety forces them to tax on IRPF without taking this into account, so in real terms they pay more taxes. Why does the Government refuse a tax reduction that protects families? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u65	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Cañizares, it must be that you have been out of the country during the period that this government has been managing a crisis resulting from the invasion of Ukraine, because we have starred in the biggest tax rebate that has ever been made by a government - I remind you - no matter how much you laugh - I don't know where the grace is - your partner in the ranks: more than 10 billion euros in savings for families and also for businesses. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] However, Mrs Cañizares, one thing you preach when you are in opposition and another thing is what you do when you live with the governments of the right, because it was you, the governments of the right, who starred in this country the biggest fiscal rise - more than fifty times the taxes - to the middle class, to the working class, with a shameful fiscal amnesty that even declared illegal the Constitutional Court. Those are your recipes in the face of the crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u67	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u68	Look, since 2019 that you govern in Spain, the risk of poverty has increased, in addition to the bill of light, that today affects 13 million people, 13 million Spaniards. The deficit, the public debt, the interest rates, inflation and, of course, the taxes that you have raised to twenty-five times between the new tax figures and the previous ones. Until June 2022, EUR 107 billion was raised, 17% more than in the first half of 2021. You who like to put names to others would be the minister 'I go up to' The only thing they have lowered has been the VAT of gas and electricity, and they are late. [[Applauds]] We, VOX, already proposed it in April and all of you voted against it - these gentlemen also with the excuse that Brussels prevented it. [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] And do you know why they're lowering VAT now in October? To bring about a fall in the CPI in November and thus slow down the revaluation of pensions. Therefore, with more collection we have more poor in Spain, because the collected you do not distribute it in the Robin Hood style, but rather in the feudal lord style, reserving to finance their causes, their chiringuitos and their ministerial excesses, distributing crumbs to the Spaniards. Look, the international organizations that you applaud when you propose to raise taxes today are unaware of them because they advise, as a recipe to contain inflation, to reduce public spending and you are the only ones that reduce ties in the Council of Ministers, while imposing an energy rationing on the Spanish or proposing to raise food prices to ruin also the small traders. These are the most enthusiastic ideas of her partner the minister of quota and unemployment: offers Yolanda 2x1, two opinions, one government. Minister, get off the Olympus on the street and stop ruling against the Spaniards. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u69	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Don't hang up, Mrs. Cañizares. You cannot assimilate a tax on big energy companies or large financial institutions to carry out the reinforcements of the crisis in the middle class and in the working class, which is what you did when you ruled the right in this country, including you, because you lived in the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You are the same together and separately, because you live in the People's Party. Can you tell me, Mrs Cañizares, if you are making a speech here in support of the middle class and the working class, why do you vote no to the transport bonus to make it free in close proximity and rolling stock? Can you tell me why you refuse to put in a supplementary scholarship for young people under the age of eighteen? Can you tell me, Your Honor, why do you vote against the lowering of taxes to citizens on gas VAT or on light VAT? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u72	Can you tell me why you are voting against the rise in minimum living income? Why do they vote against measures that favour the social majority in this country? As you cannot explain, I say to you: Because you, like the People's Party, defend... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY DON TOMÁS GUIARTE GIMENO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT IS THE MAJOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGETARY COMMITMENTS AND PARTICIPATIONS REFERRED TO IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE OF 2022? [[File number 180/001003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u74	Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group, who also asks the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u75	Madam Minister, what is the degree of implementation of the commitments and budget headings relating to Teruel contained in the general budgets of 2022?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u76	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, the budget for the year 2022 included important items addressed to the province of Teruel within the demographic challenge strategy, which, as you know, Mr Guitarte, is one of the priorities of this Government. I can tell you that the implementation of what we agreed with your parliamentary group is on the right track. At this time we are at around 60% of the implementation of these measures, with much of the year remaining, and I hope, therefore, that by the end of the budget year we will be able to conclude with 100% of the agreed measures. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u79	Minister, Teruel Existe supported the General Budgets of the State in 2022, among other things, because he negotiated specific amendments to them, as is the case with additional provision 123, aid to the sparsely populated provinces. These are, as you know, regional State aid in its form of operating aid for the provinces of Soria, Teruel and Cuenca, because they are territories with a population density of less than 12.5 inhabitants per square kilometre. This additional statutory provision obliges the Government to implement such aid from 1 January 2022. I can understand that you are personally upset by the excessive reaction of certain politicians in my autonomous community when in 2012 you declared yourself in favour, without a doubt, of implementing this type of aid. But these aids are a substantial aspect of the survival and sustainability of these territories, which have a weaker economic structure in the country, and we must know how to be above these unfortunate circumstances. On the other hand, in the debate on the state of the nation on 14 July, you yourself, the President of the Government and your entire parliamentary group voted, together with the vast majority of this House, for a resolution tabled by Teruel Existe calling for the immediate implementation of this aid. They have therefore committed themselves twice in this House to such aid. On the other hand, you know that within Spain there are territories with the most serious depopulation problems in Mediterranean Europe; also that in your Government's package of social measures - which we support - you are not aware that there is a major social inequality which has a territorial origin and with it too you must end. Measures such as these are implemented in European areas with similar problems and have been very successful. These measures activate territories that, if not, become spaces-problem. Remember that it is therefore a commitment of the Government in the form of a law - as I have repeated before - which has the authorisation of the European Commission and which does not in any way entail an excessive cost. Madam Minister, the time has come for the government to apply this aid immediately, without a further day's delay. Therefore, we proposed that they use the way of the royal decree law. Can we tell the inhabitants of Soria, Teruel and Cuenca that the government is going to launch them during this 2022 exercise and that they will continue to be implemented in the following exercises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u80	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. We agree, Mr. Guitarte. The package of measures that we have adopted, some of them investments as important - you know it - as the A-68 motorway and others that have to do with the demographic challenge strategy, all the measures, more than a hundred, are perfectly specified. The regional aid map has been published, as you said, increasing the intensity of aid for both investment and operation in depopulated areas; the framework agreement for the fair transition from coal mining; and you rightly said that we have also incorporated an additional provision to give effect to that capacity which is allowed from Europe to assist in these measures to operation without altering the rules of play of the single market as a whole. We'll put them in motion, Your Honor. Therefore, the Government's commitment remains the same as we have maintained with you. We are working, basically, within the framework of taxation and also within the framework of social security. They are measures that are not only exhausted in this environment, but also have to be complemented by direct support for this operation that other administrations can provide and that therefore have to be the summation of all this collaboration. I believe, Mr Guitarte, that we have been able to put on the government's agenda a problem as important as the problem of depopulation, of the demographic challenge; that we have managed to make progress in our commitment to the citizens of this whole area and, above all, to the recovery mechanism, to the European funds, with a constant look at that territorial cohesion so that the distribution will benefit the areas that are in direct depopulation. We will continue to work in that direction. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARTA ROSIC I SALTOR, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DO POLITICAL PERFORMANCE TO INDEPENDENT YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS LIKE YOUTH? [[File number 180/001017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u82	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Marta Rosique i Saltor, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u83	Ómnium Cultural received a report from your ministry last week in which you not only confirmed the police infiltration and the attempt to capture in the Young Republicà, SPEC, Batec, Casal Lina Ódenay Resistim al Gòtic, but you even justified it; moreover, you justified it within the strategy to combat terrorism. In other words, they linked the youth independence movement to terrorism; obviously without providing any data confirming such a link; obviously without any serious crime confirming the existence of a terrorist threat; obviously on the basis of political and ideological persecution, without even bearing in mind its own Criminal Code, that is, even depriving itself of its beloved rule of law. We deserve an answer, Minister. Did you give the approval to that report? Did you sign off on those infiltrations? How do they justify political persecution of independent youth organizations such as the Young Republicà?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u84	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the question. Let me first say to you that I believe that you have had to read another report or have had an error in the interpretation of that report, because it does not sympathise with what you have said in that regard. You draw conclusions that are alien to reality. I always remember in this Chamber that our Constitution is a non- militant Constitution, does not necessarily require adherence to its principles and values, and therefore that non-adherence is not punishable. Therefore, that account of which you speak of political persecution, of persecution of dissent, I am sorry to tell you for the stated reasons that it is out of reality. I will tell you even more, the forces and security forces of the State, the group of public officials, have an obligation to defend ideological freedom, freedom of thought, regardless of whether or not they join. The State security forces and bodies do not pursue ideologies, the State security forces and bodies have to ensure a security environment, preventing and preventing the commission of criminal acts, such as obviously affecting critical infrastructures, causing damage to personal and material property, and in that really is what the State security forces and bodies are in; in no way in pursuing or dealing with political dissent, because there is no political dissent, what exists are different and different ideologies, all compatible in a democracy, that is, militant as Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u86	Mrs. Rosique.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u87	Minister, if there is no political persecution, then why do they initiate a police infiltration? How do they justify this report talking about the counter-terrorism strategy? How do these infiltrations and attempts at capture justify? Don't we deserve the information you have about our organization? Don't we deserve the right to defence? It is our organization, it is a political party, and you have even violated Article 6 of your sacrosanct Constitution, obtaining information through unlawful methods, restricting our freedom. If we were talking about an infiltration into the Socialist Youth, were you not outraged? Well, retract yourself with this, too. Today we are not here to defend ourselves, we are here to denounce their repressive and abusive practices, to denounce that it is their government - and no longer that of the People's Party - that initiates this political persecution by being independent and also by being young. We are also here to make it clear to you that more assembly of your own, more convinced will have us on the need to leave this repressive state at once. Minister, if this is a fully democratic state, which would be... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would like to reiterate the same thing I have already said to you. In this country there is no persecution or confrontation with political dissent, in this country the forces and security forces of the State do what they do is to prevent, investigate and deal with criminal acts; criminal acts, not ideas, I repeat it again. A party like yours, with a certain and concrete democratic sensitivity, with which we come to agreements on social policies, on civil rights and on issues of historical memory, I am convinced that you, defending freedom of thought, do not determine that it can be compatible with the commission of criminal acts, which is those faced by the forces and security forces of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: ARE THEY GOING TO DELIMITATE POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE TRAIN SALID THAT WAS immersED IN THE BEJIS FIRE? [[File number 180/001015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u90	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u91	Madam Minister, on 17 August, a few hours after the event, my group asked for your urgent appearance to explain how it is possible that a train - the panic train - would have as its destination the Bejis fire, a very serious negligence that put at risk the lives of its passengers and that, thanks to the professionalism and diligence of the driver, it had no greater misfortune. Diligence which on the other hand you lack, because you must have thought that it was not dramatic enough and that it did not affect enough people to see your holidays altered, and you did not renounce them or have the decency to show up or characterise there; otherwise, you merely put on a tweet. On 31 August, forced by our group, and as a mark of his government, he automatically sought to shake any responsibility and pointed out possible negligence to the Valencian Generalitat, who presides over her party partner, Ximo Puig, and even to some of the ministries. That is why I ask you: do you know that the responsibilities corresponding to those responsible for such serious negligence have been cleared up? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u92	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Montesinos, as I have done since the first day, from the first moment, I believe that what corresponds in any case, the first thing is to show solidarity with the people who were affected by that incident and, of course, to tell them that we are in charge, that I am in charge, that I was in charge from the first moment of the anguish of the fear that should have occurred in those circumstances. With regard to responsibilities, what I have to say to you is that what we focused on from the very beginning was to attend to the emergency and to the victims, who have been and have been given all the appropriate explanations at parliamentary level - and I also asked for that attendance - and who have also given the relevant explanations in the media. I must also tell you that this Government was present at the scene. First, the Minister of the Interior, who is the most responsible for civil protection; the Minister of Science, and even the President of the Government. What we are currently doing is focusing on the analysis of the facts, being exhaustive, to see how we can improve regulation, how we can improve procedures and protocols to ensure that such a situation does not happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u94	Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u95	Madam Minister, how well you practice political escapism, the first thing you have done is to throw the ordago at your colleague, who is the one who in any case should have answered it, it is clear, because you have been responsible for being there to Minister Marlaska. Secondly, he said that you were present. No, you weren't there, you were on vacation and you didn't even have the detail of giving up on them and characterizing yourself in the accident. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And what I ask of you is a minimum of respect for those who are speaking, because, truly, it is you, like all your Government, a very lacking but very lacking Government, and not only that, an inoperative Government and a sectarian Government, that are the signs of identity to which we are accustomed. [[protests]] [[Rumors]] Look, if this very thing had happened, rather than with you, with a socialist government, which is supported not only by the PSOE but also by Bildu and even by Compromís - which, logically and naturally, has been absent in this question - what would have happened if it had been a People's Party government? What would you be asking for right now? The resignation of the Minister of Transport, the resignation of the President of the Valencian Generalitat! [[Applause.- Denials by the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda]] Yes, Minister, that's right. And while you are dedicated to opposing the alternative of government, with all the problems that the Spanish have at the moment, which you have generated for them, we are to give solutions, and sooner rather than later... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montesinos, I remind you of what I also asked the political forces in my appearance in the Committee on Transport: please, let us not use accidents, let us not use incidents as an element of party confrontation. [[protests]] Don't do it, it's embarrassing. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u99	It is shameful that you always use these issues as elements of party confrontation. Don't do it. Of course it's not worthy. It's absolutely unworthy! This government and this party could have done it when you were ruling. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u100	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u101	We didn't do it. In addition, I remind you that, far from speculation, what needs to be done is to respect the ongoing judicial investigation. That's what you have to do, not sow speculation, in which you are experts. Moreover, for the time being, until what we know, ADIF and Renfe acted as they should, the regulations were complied with, the protocols were complied with, the driver acted in an exemplary way and major damage was avoided, and that is what must be highlighted. [[Applauds]] For our part, we will continue to walk in the presentation of the facts... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT ARE THE NEXT MEASURES FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN IN CATALUña? [[File number 180/001005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u103	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u104	Thank you, President. So far the vast majority of announcements and promises you have made have remained in that: promises, announcements and headlines. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Now I have before me a socialist minister, but if I had before me a minister of the People's Party I would say exactly the same to you, because when it comes to Catalonia we don't notice the difference: rule who rules, Catalonia loses. And I'm telling you that Catalonia loses because its mismanagement that it most affects is not Junts, the CUP, Esquerra or the PSC, it is the citizens of Catalonia, all the citizens of Catalonia. Last Friday Rodalies de Catalunya suffered the most serious incidence of the last eight years: more than 80,000 citizens were affected by a bad service, improper of a first-rate country; that is, a free service until December. You say that we should not make comparisons with Madrid because they feed the chryspation. What you do not seem to understand is that the rift and anger do not come because it explains the reality to the citizens, the rift generates it when you execute 153 % of the investments of ADIF and Renfe in Madrid and only 24 % in Catalonia; or when you inaugurate 84 kilometers of new lines in Madrid and zero in Catalonia; or when you buy new trains for Madrid and not for Catalonia; or when you invest 309 euros per citizen in Madrid and only 95 euros per citizen in Catalonia, and I assure you that the citizens of Catalonia begin to know all these numbers very well. What alternative does the Government have for Catalonia that defines itself as an alternative Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u105	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. First of all, I would like to reiterate, as I did from the outset, also on Friday, the apologies to the users of Renfe who were affected by a failure in the computer system of the infrastructure, which has nothing to do with Renfe. Besides, I also want to tell you that we have opened an internal investigation to find out what failed last Friday. And by answering your question, because you were asking me about the rolling stock investment plans, I would suggest that you recover the rolling stock plan that we have submitted, which provides for an investment of more than EUR 63 billion in rolling stock until 2030. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u107	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u108	[[Start your intervention in Catalan]] They pay what they owe to Catalonia and accept the change of management of Rodalies. To other ministers, and also to Pedro Sánchez, I understand that they do not care at all about the denouncing service that Renfe Spain offers to Catalonia, but you [[ends your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u109	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Nogueras, I am also telling you, and I am also saying this to you as a minister of this Government and as a Catalan: look, that's all right; that's all right with biased readings of reality; that's all right with the rhetoric of victimism in which you are anchored; that's all right with always staring and staying in the situation of aggravation and false comparisons. [[applause]] You do not count, for example - you omit it and I remembered it the other day - that in the last survey of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinió, of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Rodalies had a score of 7.7 out of 10 by Renfe users. It is estimated that Rodalies' punctuality in Barcelona is above cities such as London, Brussels, Dublin, Oslo, Rome, Milan or Lyon. If the service is interrupted because a tree falls, you ask for the transfer of competencies. If the service is interrupted because there is sabotage, an act of bad faith, you ask for the transfer of competences. While you remain in the complaint, we help the middle class and the working class, we help the Catalan families: more than 280,000 free allowances in the core of Barcelona, to which we must add more than 57,000 in half distance. You used to call it "charity" last week in the form of bills. Look, it's not charity, it's solidarity and it's supporting and helping Catalan families. Nor do they say that Catalonia is the autonomous community that receives the most investment from all of Spain and, in fact, many of the effects that are suffered and that are going to continue to suffer in Rodalies de Catalunya are due to the investment effort that we are undertaking, such as those that we explained last Monday in an information briefing for the works... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. - of Mrs Carmen Navarro Lacoba, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training: why does the Government not accept any measure to enable the families to meet The turn of school? [[File number 180/001014]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u112	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Carmen Navarro Lacoba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Alegría, this is the portrait of the beginning of your school year: uncertain for students who don't know what to study; chaotic for teachers, who don't know how to apply their Celaá law; and expensive, very expensive for parents of more than 8 million schoolchildren, who are suffering from an outpouring of inflation that your Government is not putting in place. Do you know that you're raising the price of everything, of school material, of textbooks? Do you know that one in five families has to apply for a loan this year in order to start school? Look, on the coast of January now adds the coast of September, and since it rules Sánchez every day it is a climb up for the Spaniards. Why do you not accept the measures to support families, as President Feijóo has proposed? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u114	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Navarro, you have been somewhat out of date with this question, and I say this to you because rapid rapids, what you are saying quickly about putting forward proposals are not very much. Yes, of course this Government is proposing measures, proposing solutions, to make that return to the school of many families in this country more feasible; measures, of course, which have been debated in this House, which have been approved in this House and have always had the same answer from you: no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u116	Mrs. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u117	Mrs. Alegría, we've seen you all summer as an insult spokesman, an outstanding, but today as Minister of Education you suspend. It has parents, teachers and students in the most absolute helplessness; it has the Celaá law, which confuses suspending with passing and which has devalued merit and effort, but parents, teachers and students can be very calm because President Feijóo is going to repeal a sectarian education law. Students need less indoctrination and more Golden Century, and parents need the 22 billion euros that you have raised extra to stay in the taxpayer's pocket. Accept the measures of the People's Party: 200 euros for each child of school age, 100 million euros for aid in the purchase of textbooks, by the way, mandatory for all students of odd course, and help the autonomous communities to alleviate the expenses of dining and school transport; to teachers take care, respect! [[The Lord]] I am telling you that you are suspending, but you are suspending your entire government, because in Catalonia the independenceists have laminated Spanish. Independentists disobey justice in constitutional doctrine, and you are accomplices because you have not made use of the constitutional prerogative that you are granted as a government to stop this nonsense and so that students in Catalonia can study in Catalan and Spanish. You all know that it is unconstitutional for Spanish not to be a language to be used in Catalonia. We, the People's Party, have appealed and the Constitutional Court supports us. We, the People's Party, defend cordial bilingualism, so on Sunday we will be in Barcelona at the demonstration, together with School of All, where will you be? [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u118	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u119	President. Your Honor, the first thing I would ask of you is respect, respect for an organic law that has been passed here, where national sovereignty resides, as has been the Education Act. [[Applauds]] I will tell you that the management of the times in your party is somewhat contradictory. I was saying earlier: did you ask me this question today before or after you voted against the 400 euros you are going to receive more than a million young people who have a scholarship today? [[Applauds]] Did you register this question before or after many citizens of this country are able to enjoy a free transport ticket to travel to their workplaces? Mrs Navarro, what I ask of you is consistency and rigour. Consistency and rigour, because you, when you sit there, in the opposition, ask a lot, you ask for many measures, but then, when you arrive in this House, you vote against, and not content with that, and by laughing the curl you dare to ask for extensions to measures that you have voted against. Therefore, rigour and consistency, because you, when you sit in opposition, ask for measures, you ask for solutions that when you rule you are the first to eliminate. And this is not an opinion of this minister, this is done and, if not, explain to the citizens of this country why Mr. Feijóo's first measure when governing in the Xunta of Galicia was to eliminate the total gratuity of textbooks. [[Applauds]] And if not, explain to the Aragonese why when she ruled Mrs. Luisa Fernanda Rudi her first step was to eliminate the gratuitousness of textbooks. Or explain to them also why when Mr. Rajoy occupied the Moncloa he eliminated the departure of the textbooks. Really, Mrs Navarro, rigour and consistency. And I'm going to ask you something else: tell Mr. Feijóo not to copy, not to copy the documents that the government sends, because do you know what happens when they copy and they catch you copying? Well, you're suspending! That you're suspending! And that's what's happening to you, suspending you from supporting families! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And when you propose something, it's a short hit. And what is that, insolvency or vagrancy? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - THE DEPARTMENT OF CELLUS DELIGADO ARCE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER FOR AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: DOES THE PROPOSAL OF THE SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT TO ENCOURAGE THE PRICE OF PRODUCTS TO THE CONSUMER CONTRIBUTION TO IMPROVEMENT THE BALANCE IN THE FOOD PROCESS? [[File number 180/001016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Celso Luis Delgado Arce, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, do you consider that the proposal of the second Vice-President of the Government to raise the price of products to the consumer helps to improve the balance in the food chain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u122	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the government's goal is for all citizens to enjoy food and drink in sufficient quantity and quality, and at reasonable prices. Prices in Spain and the rest of the European Union are currently at abnormally high levels as a result of increased energy costs, raw materials, fertilizers and also, in the case of half the European Union, drought. Therefore, what the Government is calling on all actors in the food chain, and in particular distribution, to assume their responsibility for this price containment. It is absolutely necessary for all citizens and, of course, it is a priority of the Government, and in this we are in dialogue with all actors in the food chain, bearing in mind that the law of the food chain must be respected, that is, that by common sense of business and by legal obligation every farmer, every farmer and every agri-food industry has to sell at a price higher than the costs it has cost it to produce. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u124	Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u125	Minister, the openly populist and electoralist proposal of the second vice-president to raise food commodity prices is another example of the level of division and confrontation between the government coalition and the frivolity with which you deal with important issues. Yolanda Díaz launched the proposal and at least seven ministers disagreed on it. What chaos and what a pitiful spectacle! You, Minister, were none, and all this with the complacency of President Sánchez, for whom it is always the first thing to ensure that you remain in power. Minister, the proposal was frivolous and smoky. The National Commission on Markets and Competition reminded its Government that both the law and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union expressly prohibit the setting of maximum prices, agreements or recommendations, as they restrict or distort competition to the detriment of users. Farmers and livestock farmers said no to the proposal, as it was they who were to be most harmed. They said No to the proposal the self-employed, the small proximity traders, the fruit farmers, the butchers, the pleasurers, the fishermen, the shopkeepers, because it exerted an effect called to buy in the big chains. The same was said by cooperatives, food industries and distribution organizations, which considered the proposal illegal and distorted the market. Well, Minister, the People's Party is proposing a series of measures that would help contain the crazy food CPI, which in August has reached 13.8%, more than a year earlier, that is, the worst since 1994. They put in place more measures to support the reduction of demarcated energy consumption costs that affect all the links in the food chain, there are already too many companies that have closed down or are in loss. They help families by returning the extra money they have paid for inflation, EUR 22 billion; they deflate middle and low incomes at once, and they study a fall in basic food VAT, because there is room for it. Minister, do not delay the adoption of these measures any longer, as in the end they will have no choice but to rectify and implement them as Feijóo proposes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u126	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. For your peace of mind, there is no proposal for price control on the table; therefore, there is no element to which you have to replicate. But I can tell the Group of the European People's Party that you suffer from extreme political bipolarity, because you do not support the food chain law, the historical claim of farmers and farmers, and now you are concerned about the costs for farmers and farmers. [[Applauds]] They voted against the 30 billion aid measures to which the first Vice-President referred earlier, particularly the 169 million aid to the dairy sector. You are a Member of Parliament for Ourense: 6660 Galician farmers have received 57.3 million euros despite the vote against the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Feijóo People's Party: thirteen years of government in Galicia, zero euros of direct aid. [[Applauds]] Government of Spain, with President Sánchez: 57.3. Explain it to me. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY GUILLERMO DÍAZ GOMEZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHEN WILL THE GOVERNMENT WITHDRAW THE OBLIGATION OF THE USE OF MASKS IN PUBLIC TRANSPORT? [[File number 180/001007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u129	Question addressed to the Minister of Health. Question by Mr Guillermo Díaz Gómez, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u130	Mrs. Darias, good morning. When are you going to remove the mandatory public transport mask? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u131	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Díaz, as you well know and we have often discussed, it will be when we have a proposal from the experts who advise both the ministry and the autonomous communities when we are ready to assess such a measure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u133	Mr. Guillermo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u134	Mrs Darias, Portugal, Denmark, Belgium, France, the United Kingdom, Finland, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Romania, Malta or Croatia are countries that have removed the mandatory public transport mask and nothing bad has happened; nothing bad has happened because COVID-19 is a disease that is already mild in most cases. Mrs Darias, a restrictive measure of these characteristics makes sense if it avoids something worse than what it imposes, but imposing on millions of Spaniards a measure that is not necessary already does much more damage than that which avoids. Citizens already managed to convince them that the mask was useless in open spaces; then we convinced them that it was not necessary in closed spaces, to see if the tradition is fulfilled and, again, after a question from Citizens, removes the mandatory mask in public transport and establishments such as optics. Look what happened to her partner, the Minister of Justice, who said yesterday that when she goes on the subway and on the bus everyone is talking about the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Take off the mask and you'll really hear what the Spaniards are talking about. Maybe they don't like it, but they'll find out a lot. Mrs Darias, the government is a guarantor of freedom, not a guardian of people's lives. It is you who have to prove the effectiveness of a measure, not the other way around. I told him a very striking experience last June: I left home without a mask; I took a taxi, I put on my mask; I went to the airport and, along with a crowd, I waited for boarding the plane, without a mask; I got on the plane, with a mask; that night I saw Iron Maiden with fifty thousand more people, without a mask; then we went to a bar with a hundred fans, without a mask; I took a taxi and, with the windows down, I went back to the hotel, with a mask. Think about this, Mrs. Darias; millions of Spaniards are living in a situation as absurd as the one I have just told you. Mrs Darias, you are not able to lower the price of light, you are not able to lower the price of the shopping basket, you are not able to lower taxes, but what I am telling you today is very simple, it is very easy, Mrs Diarias, with a quote order you can remove the mask. Please remove the mandatory mask in public transport today. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Muñoz Vidal: Bravo!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u135	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Díaz, we are in a really good epidemiological situation, but not because of the proposals made by Citizens, under no circumstances, but because of the management of the Government of Spain together with the autonomous communities and because of the leadership we have at international level. [[Applauds]] I have just taken part in the WHO Europe summit and we have been recognised for the management of the pandemic, not because you say so. The proposals of the experts have been key throughout the management, and for this Government they will continue to be, or is it that what you propose to me is that we make a decision apart from the experts? By the way, Germany, Austria, Italy, Chile, Cyprus: does it matter that they are equally compulsory? We are in a situation with a level of occupation of ICUs below 2%, which is certainly important. Each and every one of the measures has had a consensus; indeed, with co-governance, which I believe you too will appreciate very positively. If we are a country of reference, it will be for something. As I have just said, it is recognized by international bodies such as WHO, with which I have recently been. So, what situation are we in and what do we have to continue working on? The situation has to do with the very high vaccination coverage. We are a country success in this. Now comes the fourth dose, which we will start to inoculate on September 26. The mask is only compulsory in health centres, in social health centres and in public transport, by the way, as a proposal of the warning, which also argues for the high concentration of people in very small spaces, without adequate ventilation and on long journeys. Therefore, Mr Díaz, I ask you to add to what the experts, who have been key throughout the pandemic, say, and do not attribute merits that do not correspond to them. I recognize that your group has also supported and participated, but everything in your place: you where you are, there, in the opposition, and we here, in the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u138	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the Government's intention to comply with the opinions of international bodies in order to comply with democratic and political rights in the Spanish State. For your defence, Mrs. Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u139	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. This past 31 August, the UN Human Rights Committee, the UN, issued a very important opinion, Minister. It clearly condemned Spain for violating article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, a pact that Spain had obviously signed. What exactly does this mean? The United Nations clearly tells us that Spain, with this supposed progressive government of the PSOE and the United We can, suspended political rights, I repeat, suspended the political rights of the former Vice-President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Mr Oriol Junqueras, and the advisers of the Government of Catalonia, Mr Romeva, Mr Rull and Mr Turull, all of them, of course, political prisoners; they suspended their rights by preventing them from being political representatives before there was a conviction against them. [[Makes the mark of quotes with your fingers]] Accordingly, the opinion of the United Nations details what the Spanish State should do. First, the Spanish State must publish this opinion and disseminate it widely. They haven't done it yet, have they, Minister? Secondly, they take six months to explain the measures that the State is going to take to ensure that these violations of rights do not recur. Thirdly, it is understood that, among these measures, the Criminal Procedure Act should be amended. Fourthly, they must explain how they are going to repair the damage caused by this grave violation of rights. Also, Minister, I am obliged to remind you that Esquerra asks you for the fourth time what answer we are given to Resolution 2381 of the year 2021. I am obviously referring to the important and famous Cilevics report. In that resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe urged the Kingdom of Spain, first, to reform the Criminal Code, specifically the crime of sedition and rebellion. Madam Minister, don't always excuse us: they can't reform the sedition crime because it requires too many consensus. We remind you that the Criminal Code is an organic law and requires only an absolute majority equivalent, for example, to the investiture. As I was telling you, Minister, the Council of Europe urges you, first, to reform the Criminal Code; second, to recognize that on 1 October there was no violence on the part of citizens; third, to consider the revision and possible revocation of pardons unacceptable, because the Council of Europe admits that the independent leaders in prison were political prisoners and prisoners and still weighs the penalty of disqualification; fourth, to consolidate a political negotiating table with the Generalitat in order to strengthen the path of dialogue and democratic resolution; fifth, to allow the debate of the Amnesty Act and to end the existence of the numerous trials still pending following the events of 1 October; sixth, to end the persecution of political exiles, allowing their return and, of course, withdrawing requests for extradition; seventh, to carry out a thorough investigation of the 'catalangate', accepting a commission of inquiry in the Congress of Deputies, and eighth, to stop the economic persecution of the Court of Auditors to the non-particularist self-remembering of a judicial non-party. Spain has so far failed to comply with the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly, Minister, as the rapporteur, Mr Cilevics, also pointed out in the annual review he carried out this same month of June. It is not in vain that you have refused to comply with it and, even worse, this House voted by a large majority against the motion, tabled by Esquerra Republicana, which called for compliance with the Council of Europe resolution. That is why I ask you: does the Government of Spain intend to comply with the resolution of the Council of Europe and the opinion of the Human Rights Committee? Either they accept the democratic shortcomings they have and take measures to overcome them or they are forced to deny and maintain those democratic shortcomings. You were telling me last April that Spanish democracy is not in question, that Esquerra Republicana questions Spanish democracy, that it denoses the institutions and that it fuels the growth of the extreme right in Spain. Madam Minister, it is not only the Republican Left that questions democracy in Spain, but also the Council of Europe, the Human Rights Committee and all the European courts that have refused to extradite our exiles and exiles. Madam Minister, to comply with the resolutions of the international institutions does not feed the extreme right in Spain, what feeds the far right is not to comply with them. What is normal in any democracy that is intended to be full or that purports to be full would be to comply with those resolutions. Why doesn't Spain do it? Because, even if they are called progressives, you are more nationalists than democrats and because you know that Spain is very facsimile, so facsimile that you are afraid of losing the elections if you comply with the Council of Europe and the UN. The ones who have fed that facha Spain are the lies that have spilled over the years on Catalonia, it is the false account of violence, the legitimation of repression, the prison and 155; lies, of course, built with the complicity of the Spanish media, the same media that, instead of demanding them to comply with international resolutions to improve democracy, are dedicated to ignoring or disregarding such resolutions even often disregarding the institutions. To comply with the resolutions means to put into evidence the story that Spain makes about Catalonia; to put into evidence the lies that all political, media, police and judicial power has been building against Catalonia for years. It is to recognize that we demand a democratic political right; it is to recognize that we do so peacefully and that there has been no violence in Catalonia; it is to recognize that there has been no justice, but revenge and that the crimes of sedition and rebellion have been perverted to put the Government of Catalonia, the President of Parliament and its main social leaders in prison, in short, Minister, it is to recognize the truth. That is precisely all they should take up and agree, first of all, on a negotiating table. If Spain were truly democratic, it would be bringing to the negotiating table the immediate implementation of the resolutions of the Council of Europe and the UN. Far from this, your police and intelligence services continue to harass and persecute us, either by your orders or by autonomous decision - which in this case would be illegal -. Also through the sewers of the State we are being spied on and persecuted, and you are responsible for action or omission. [[Applauds]] A week ago you recognized the infiltration of police and attempts to capture youth organizations such as Young Republicà, also accusing Young Republicà and other Catalan youth organizations of terrorists. Minister, only a fascist police can consider our young terrorists. [[Applauds]] We have been warning you: either you face the fascism in your police and in your courts or the fascism that you tolerate and legitimize today will defeat your democracy. You'll see. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u140	Thank you. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u141	Thank you, President. Mrs Bassa Coll, it is not the first time that the Republican Group has brought to this House or the Upper House, to the Senate, a debate on this matter, whether in terms of democratic quality or in terms of compliance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, and I am already telling you that the position of Spain has been, is and will be the same, because it is not up to the rule of law to have another attitude. I told him on previous occasions and I repeat it now, even for the fourth time: Spain fulfills, Spain fulfills what obliges him and Spain takes good note, very good note, of what is recommended to him. Although, logically, it is not for me to speak here by all the powers of the State, but only by the Executive, you do add that the fulfilment of international obligations extends to all the powers of the State, to the Government, on its own parcel, and to all the public authorities, which work unquestionably in the fulfilment of international obligations. Otherwise, the instruments offered by the rule of law can be used, but within the framework of the rule of law, within the constitutional framework. To pretend to expose the State on the fallacious argument of non-compliance with the international organizations to which Spain belongs is a short road and is a wrong road. You have come a long way, and the only doubt I have is when you will notice that what you propose is a wrong way, Your Honor. I delved into the ideas I outlined in April. Trying to distort the incontrovertible fact that Spanish democracy does not work feeds the reactionary forces, as you mentioned, those who want to make an involution in the area of rights and freedoms. Look at the unconstitutionality resources posed by the right to the laws of progress. They have ample evidence of this, both from the extreme right, attacking women's rights and cutting workers' rights, and from the main opposition party, the People's Party, whose blocking attitude, boycotting the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary is an irresistible mixture of bad faith, lack of State sense, political indolence. With these limbs, with this burden that we carry of having an opposition without the least complex when it comes to undermining the institutions of the State, you should - and in this I insist you, ladies and gentlemen - tie your shoulder and not question them with these biased and absolutely interested interpretations of pronouncements of international bodies. That's what you've done from here today. It's been very painful for me to hear it. I also ask for respect, I ask for respect for Spain. I ask you for respect and I insist that you feed that monster, saying that Spain is a bad country, what it does is to help all these advances of democratic quality run the risk of a serious involution. The contempt you cause Spain outside our borders with those things you say from this rostrum is great. I insist, you ask for respect, but I also ask for respect. Moreover, it is irresponsible at a time when citizens need public protection, public policies, social policies to face the economic challenges we are facing. Encouraging detachment with the institutions is a sign of a lack of solidarity, which is a constitutional principle; it is also about solidarity, it seems to me that up to fifteen times, in the Statute of Catalonia. But are there no Catalans living elsewhere in Spain? And vice versa, aren't there any Spaniards living there too? Don't you think of these people who have that identity, these territorial sensibilities? Why do you feed the fallacy? [[Rumors]] You get confused again; you confuse resolutions of mandatory compliance with recommendations. They confuse powers of the state. They ask the Executive about issues that do not concern him at all; issues that do not concern him by his own competence, but, of course we care, how will we not care? That's who we are. We respect the opinions of the Human Rights Committee, but we also have to tell them that we do not sometimes share them. We take note of the recommendation of the Council of Europe to which you referred; it is a resolution, I insist, not binding. We note that it affects those territorial sensitivities that matter to us, but they extract consequences of binding compliance with resolutions that are not of this nature, and that is where they settle in confusion. If you want to talk about the opinion of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. It is a resolution, I insist, not binding. This Government does not share the substance of it. It should also be considered that it has two particular votes, it is not unanimous, it has two particular votes that endorse the actions of the Spanish courts. The ruling was based on a complaint that should never have been allowed to proceed, because the complainants had not waited for the rulings of either the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court. I would also like to refer to article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is also, in a fallacious way, referred to as the cause of all evils. As you are well aware, the possibility of parliamentary suspension for the prosecution of crimes such as rebellion was already provided for in our procedural legislation for many years, since 1988. Thirty-four years in our system should suffice to conjure up the fallacy that we are facing an ad hoc approved standard only to harm you, to suspend your rights. His legal aid surely had to know this legislation when he assisted them in the proceedings. Moreover, the suspension was not even adopted at the beginning of the investigation, because it is a decision taken at the end of the investigation investigation phase with reinforced indications, nor does it cause a parliamentary alteration, because the suspensions were taken individually. The suspended parliamentarians can also be temporarily replaced, which supports the legality of the measure. It is obviously an extraordinary measure, but it maintains the principle of representation within parliamentary life invariably. This was also understood by the Supreme Court on July 9, 2018. In addition, it is a measure that was adjusted to the legality because it was revoked when the charges were amended, the charges against the suspended parliamentarians were amended; that is, the law was complied with. As I have already said, the position of the Government is invariable, for the simple reason that there can be no other position than to accept and respect the resolutions that comply with the law in force, also resolutions of the Spanish courts, on the basis that there was no deviation of power, there was no arbitrariness, but a normal functioning of the Spanish courts. I would like to tell you that respect for judicial decisions, the exclusive power of national courts to enforce and interpret the law, is part of the very doctrine of the Human Rights Committee. Do you respect the resolutions of international bodies in this regard? Do you respect them? Look, we are now working on the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, an important text that, by the way, has been pending for more than a year from the report of the General Council of the Judiciary. It is a delay, logically, due to the extraordinary and altered situation of the Council in office, whose renewal we need to speed up these reports also for important bills. That is where you will be able, when you arrive in Parliament, to table amendments, and whatever you do not like or believe is detrimental to your interests, you will be able to bring it to an amendment stage, and within the framework of the rule of law, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure of this House and also of the Senate, you will be able to debate and make changes, but everything within the clean game, the parliamentary game, the rule of law game. I remain, Your Honor, with an incontrovertible reality, and it is that today social peace has returned to Catalonia, that is obvious, thanks to the action of this Government, we have to recognize it, thanks to the fact that this Government has promoted a policy of understanding and that policy of dialogue also between Catalans, thanks to the fact that this Government has been concerned to foster a breathable atmosphere, because what was before was an irrespirable atmosphere of confrontation, and social confrontation, of division. I believe that the foundations are being laid for the reconstruction of social understanding, of dialogue as a means of resolving differences. Ladies and gentlemen, the pardon measures that were adopted by this government have undoubtedly contributed to creating this climate, despite the fact that apart from this House, it is a shame that it has done nothing to prevent a social conflict that has gone from long to clear. You should recognize that it is with the PP government that the situation took to the extreme, to the limit. However, they have dialogue with this Government, and they will always find us on that path. On the road to claiming legal consequences of non-binding resolutions or on the road to discrediting State institutions, they will not find us. That is why we call for deep reflection, not to continue on wrong paths and to respect the Spanish institutions, including the autonomous institutions. That's what we're gonna be working on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u143	Minister, nothing new, just like the previous month. You have said that Spain fulfils and takes note, and you also ask me for respect. How can you ask me for respect when you do not respect the recommendations of international organizations? How can you ask me that? [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I will respect Spain when Spain respects the human and political rights and also the majority will of the people of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, from the Republican Left we have explicitly asked you several times whether you intend to comply with the Civics report. Although the question is easy and answered with a yes or a no, you, in the four times we have asked you in Congress and in the Senate, have been unable to answer. So, we understand that the answer you are missing is no, we believe that you think that Spain will not comply with the Council of Europe resolution or the United Nations opinion. And he does not answer because he is ashamed to give this answer, he is ashamed to say explicitly that he will not, that they will not comply with the resolutions of the Council of Europe and the opinion of the United Nations. But if you are not ashamed of it, then answer; answer whether or not you are going to fulfill it. What you are being asked by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the UN Human Rights Committee is very easy, Minister. There are three basic things: first, amnesty and end of repression; second, negotiation; and third, amending legislation so that rights violations do not recur. In other words, what the international bodies are asking is to end all repression and to resolve democratically through negotiation the democratic conflict that they have with Catalonia. Yes, Minister, it is true that you have pardoned - I knew you would take this from me - but I repeat to you again that you have not pardoned as we wanted, but have partially pardoned political prisoners and prisoners. Indeed, the rapporteur of the Council of Europe, Mr Cilevics, acknowledges this progress, but also tells them that this is not enough, that it should be fully pardoned and that political prisoners, including the President of the Republican Left of Catalonia, Mr Oriol Junqueras, should be allowed to stand for elections; that the return of exiles and exiles, such as the Secretary General of the Republican Left, Marta Rovira, or President Puigdemont, should also be allowed to end all trials against independenceists, such as the one held today by comrade Anna Gabriel in the Supreme. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Minister, you must also acknowledge that there was no violence on the part of citizens on 1 October. Far from this, the Spanish Government, through the Ministry of Defence, is dedicated to manipulating Wikipedia to erase the reference to police violence, to erase the truth, as we saw yesterday. The path of democracy is being pointed out to you from the European Union and the UN. Why don't you follow him? Why doesn't the president of the government come out and say he's going to accept the resolutions these agencies make? Why does the President of his Government not come out proud to say that they will comply with the resolutions of the European Union and the UN, instead of being proud of a colonialist 155? Madam Minister, the opinions of the European Union and the UN point to Spain, which is not a full democracy. The conclusion for the Catalan Democrats is clear: independence is a democratic necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u144	Thank you. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u145	Your Honor, what really embarrasses me is that in a debate of this significance, of this importance, there is only one person, one Member, sitting on the bench of the seats of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That makes me ashamed because it's something that concerns the state, it's something that concerns us all. I think I have already been quite clear about the Government's position: support for the institutions, respect for the functioning of democratic institutions; respect for an opinion which, I repeat, is not binding - although we do take good note of it, although we do not share the substance of the opinion for the technical and legal reasons I have already expressed - and support for the normal functioning of our institutions, an operation in accordance with our rule of law, our framework and institutional functioning which has also been present in our laws for more than thirty years and therefore before we were here. There is therefore no lack of proportionality, there is no ad hoc legislation of a perfidious State, of the Spanish State attempting a specific special pollution against certain persons; there is a rule of law and there is a principle of legality. It is true that no State, nor we, is perfect and that we have to improve and move forward, especially in many institutional aspects, but we are a country that supports its citizens in times of difficulty. I believe that here we must remember that the Government of Spain is committed to the citizens of Catalonia. As for the Next Generation funds, Spain will have access to a total of 140 billion euros between 2021 and 2022, being approximately 70 billion in the form of transfers. Thus, as of August 30, 2022, of the 18,268 million euros allocated, Catalonia has received 2593 million euros, the second autonomous community that has received the most Next Generation funds after Andalusia. We are committed to people in Catalonia. How many families have benefited from the drop in taxes and the receipt of light in Catalonia? Look, there are 3,029,000 households in Catalonia, let's do the math. How many Catalans and Catalans have been beneficiaries of free rolling and medium distance in Catalonia? If there are 5.6 million vehicles in Catalonia, how many Catalans and Catalans benefit from 20 cents per litre of bonus fuel? How many? How many scholarships for young Catalans who want to study are going to be provided by the Government of Spain? We cannot be blamed that we do not look for Catalonia and that we do not look for Catalans and Catalans because, of course, the Government of Spain looks for Catalans and Catalans. It was just missing! Let me finish by reading a preambular paragraph of the Organic Law 6/2006 of 19 July, which should sound to you because it is the Statute of Catalonia. It says that the collective freedom of Catalonia finds in the institutions of the Generalitat the link with a history of affirmation and respect for the fundamental rights and public freedoms of the person and of the peoples; history that the men and women of Catalonia want to continue in order to make possible the construction of a democratic and advanced society of well-being and progress, solidarity with the whole of Spain and incardinated in Europe. Read it from time to time, and be also supportive or stay in that loop. We, meanwhile, will continue to work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE CONCRETE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO SOLUTION THE POSITION OF SPAIN IN ENERGY AND SOLUTION TO THE RUIN OF SPAIN. [[File number 172/000232]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u147	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the concrete measures that the Government is going to take to solve Spain's position on energy and to solve the ruin of the Spaniards. For your defence, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u148	Madam Minister for Ecological Transition, today I ask you what concrete measures the Government is going to take to ensure that Spain's Energy Plan benefits the Spaniards. The question is quite specific and for this I am going to develop a series of ideas at the same time as the proposals that we have been putting forward, some of which, by the way, have already welcomed you, which is very commendable, and it would be very good if you welcomed all of them. The energy reality in Spain today is devastating because families and companies are suffering a very serious situation, which not only affects these direct energy costs but also increases the prices of all products, both those that are transported by road and those that are produced by consuming electricity. And that is one of the reasons that pushes prices up and down the quality of life and ability and purchasing power of the Spaniards. The easiest and easiest example is that the typical daily menu and breakfast cafeteria, which previously paid about 700 euros of energy, now pays around 1500, has almost doubled its cost. And this is the basic cost of direct energy consumption alone, but also the products have almost doubled their prices, due to the cost of labour, thanks to their companion Yolanda Díaz, through social contributions. In short, all the costs of the Spanish production system are increasing, and that is, by the way, one of the issues that push upwards the inflation that is so much being talked about. The reasons for this energy rise, which are complex and many, come almost exclusively from its energy plan. A country's energy plan is a fundamental part of this country's strategy - think that today everything consumes energy -. The first point of an energy plan is to clarify what its objective is. The aim of Spain's Energy Plan should be the well-being of the Spanish and yet you have left it out. You only have the 2030 Agenda as your goal. Those who listen to us will be asked why we are repeating the question of the 2030 Agenda so much. The 2030 Agenda is precisely one of the reasons why energy is in today's prices. The leitmotiv of the agenda - very repeated by you, Minister, and by your entire government - is the very famous decarbonisation. But Spain has already made a huge effort on this issue, the households in Spain are the least energy consuming in Europe. I give you the data: 0.3 tons of oil equivalent - it is a somewhat complex unit - is what a Spanish household consumes. However, the EU average is 0.5 and Germany is 0.7. We are one of the most efficient in Europe. But we are, too, in CO2, because Spain emits 0.33 tons of CO2 for every megawatt/hour produced in 2000, and today we emit 0.14, that is, we have doubled our efficiency in energy generation, and you even tighten the nuts more. In addition, the Spanish also emit less CO2 than the rest of the Europeans, since Spain is around 4 tons of CO2 per inhabitant, while Germany emits around 7 and the EU average is around 6, and you ask the Spanish to make even more efforts. That's why we think you should ask the Spaniards. Launch a public consultation, use Article 92 of the Constitution and ask them: Do you want Agenda 2030, electricity bills of 1500 euros, diesel to 1.9 euros, or do you want freedom, sovereignty and Agenda Spain, well-being for the Spaniards? [[Shows a document reading: 'Agenda Spain'.-Applause]] Ask him openly, because you, Minister, are taking all these measures behind the back of the Spaniards. This question has not been consulted or included in your programme, nor has it been openly announced, because you are hiding under slogans the real and harmful consequences for the Spaniards. When asked, by the way, why these prices, the price of the price, you respond with some clichés: the war, the virus and Franco - on this occasion you have not used it -. But the question is, when do they start to raise prices? In the year 2020, minister, when there was no war and the virus had passed - recovery, according to you on uve -. The other excuse you give is to point out to the electrical companies, but it is also not understandable that this is the reason when you have them tied and well tied, since countless positions of the Socialist Party control the electrics today through their boards of directors. [[Applauds]] We have Mr Carmona, Mrs Salgado, Mr Pepiño Blanco, Mr Montilla, Mrs Corredor, Mr Serra, etc. You already control the electrics. Moreover, Minister, through the CNMC and now CNMV, Mr Bacigalupo also had control over the performance of electricity companies. If you considered that you were carrying out some kind of bad practice, you could have intervened, so much so that you have your hands stuck in them to the elbows, but only for the good, to use them as slogans, to hide behind them and use them as excuses. The real reason for this is obvious: its strategy is wrong. That is why Spain is worse than all the others in our environment, despite being the most efficient in our environment, as I have already enumerated with data. [[Applauds]] The solutions we bring you are relatively simple, Minister, and we have been announcing them for a very long time: Agenda Spain, item 13, presented in October 2021. [[Shows a document reading: 'Agenda Spain']] This includes tax cuts, which, by the way, have welcomed you; the recovery of energy sovereignty, an essential element - we must be able to take advantage of the resources we have, Minister, many or few, but we must be able to take advantage of them, because something will help -, or the nuclear issue, which you have set in your sights, you and all the previous governments, by the way. This issue of nuclear power has been discussed a great deal, saying that it is in the long term. We remind you that the central of Garoña, which the People's Party promised to save in 2009, ceased its activities in 2011, already with the People's Party in government, and closed definitively in 2017, with the People's Party in government. Now we have the Almaraz power station, whose license to act expires in 2027, there are five years left. It seems a lot, but between licence renewal applications and fuel applications that time frame is exactly what it takes, five years. If you delay extending the business permit of this plant, you will no longer be able to continue in operation and will necessarily have to be closed. You keep closing and demolishing the thermals. In Asturias they have already dismantled the Lada plant and have authorized the dismantling of the Soto de la Barca thermal plant. In the end Spain produces less and less energy when we need more and more. [[Applauds]] Of course, you also talk about an issue that is very related because your leitmotiv is the climate. If what they want to defend is the climate, defend our waters, promote the interconnection of the basins, let us take advantage of our water resources. [[applause]] Today precisely don Pedro Sánchez quotes, without shame, the desertification of Spain, when it is you who are authorizing and allowing the emptying of all the reservoirs and dams that we have in Spain, when in reality we could take advantage of them and channel them directly between the watersheds and employ between 1 and 2.5 million hectares that today are empty in water. [[applause]] A simple and easy plan that would defend the climate, that would help that decarbonisation that you preach so much and that would serve the interests of the Spaniards; not those of your 2030 Agenda, of course, but those of the Spaniards. That is why we ask you to focus on Spain. We ask you to accept all those proposals that we have been launching for you both in the Agenda Spain and in the motion of censure that was raised last year where you have a concrete, detailed programme that could take advantage of, reuse. Use. We've put it at your disposal. Of course, there is the tax reduction on the bill for light, which we already proposed to you in April last year and which we thank you for having welcomed. But the key, Minister, is that they separate the 2030 Agenda from their energy plan and put the Spaniards in the center. If you have any doubts about whether or not this is what the Spaniards want and need, I invite you to consult them. The Constitution provides for it, allows it, and that is what we must do. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u149	Thank you. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u150	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reality is clumsy and the data is blunt, although we want to read it in a distorted way. I'm starting with a reference that you've made, because that myth that you've been building on lies should fall. The 2030 Agenda is the first United Nations initiative to be adopted not only unanimously by all Governments, but also following a process of direct citizen participation in which there was very important participation and overwhelming support from Spanish citizens who were encouraged to vote. But this is not the most relevant because this consultation has already been made, but because it is impossible to think about the well-being of Spain and the Spaniards by making a partial, biased reading back to the past. I would like to start by reminding you of something you always forget: we are in a situation of enormous complexity in Europe caused by the unusual situation of having a war at our doors and of the invader using energy as a weapon of war. Today I am particularly proud of being European. Today I am particularly proud to hear the President of the European Commission in the European Parliament, accompanied by President Zelenski's wife, say that Putin will fail and Europe and Ukraine will overcome and recover our threatened freedoms. We are experiencing a shock that generates great uncertainties and tensions and, fortunately, we are better prepared than others of our neighbours. He found us well prepared for the low dependence of Russian gas, but also because we had started a transformation path, to which you have partially referred, which allowed a greater resilience of our energy system and because this government, committed to Spain, to the Spanish and to the productive fabric, did not hesitate from the very first moment on to take measures - certainly none of them supported by you - to be able to accompany households, industries, to employment, as we already did in the confinement. Putin uses energy as a weapon of war. We have seen this since before, even, the invasion when it began to play with the flow of gas coming to Europe. Since the invasion of Ukraine this has worsened because it has interrupted, resumed, reduced and recovered the shipment of gas repeatedly, as a psychological abuser. On average, in September 2022 the flow has been reduced by more than 70% compared to the gas coming from Russia in September 2020 to Europe, and for us the most important thing right now is what happens to our European neighbours. It is perhaps the most relevant determinant when it comes to being able to appreciate, to be able to assess how it can directly affect us. That is why, I said, I am proud of being European, of the spirit of solidarity and cohesion when someone needs it, of the will to keep on striving to ensure that the answer is adequate, so that the construction of more Europe, more united and fairer is the one that continues to prevail. Moreover, although you believe that, being privileged, you are safe from climate change, you are confused from end to end. We are in a climate emergency and this summer has been absolutely enlightening for everyone. Our commitment is to avoid the damage that can cause not only farmers, tourism entrepreneurs and the distortions that it represents in electricity demand, but also to think about the future well-being for the Spaniards of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, not drinking our children's water, not leaving the land infertile, seeking solutions that will allow us to reduce costs and suffering in an immediate way and guarantee well-being, prosperity, employment, innovation and, of course, as you say, autonomy also, from the industrial point of view and from the energetic point of view, thinking, yes, in a globalization, in a participation as actors in the world much more balanced. Today the Commission is proposing measures very similar to those that Spain has been implementing for more than a year. Today, the President of the Commission stresses that Europeans need support and also need a fair sharing of those contributions to support them. This crisis has revealed the vulnerability and the climatic and social risks, but also the economic and strategic of returning to those solutions of the past, to an energy model based on fossil fuels. He said that, fortunately, he finds us in a good position by maintaining and strengthening the commitment of this Government to the citizens always, above all, to those who need it most; by anticipating the impacts of a possible affection of this transition for workers, for consumers; by anticipating and responding to the challenges that, surprisingly, disruptive, can arise in the day-to-day life of our history. We have faced a situation that has allowed us to have an effective framework; an effective framework in the regulatory context, in the context of investment orientation, of citizen coverage, responding to a situation in which what we find was a moratorium on renewables, a tax that prevented the development of photovoltaic energy, planning or zero forecasting with regard to how to boost such transformation, lack of identification of industrial opportunities, and this has turned around. The figures of installed power, the contribution to the GDP of the industrial sector associated with renewables, its service, its maintenance, the average reduction of electricity prices thanks to an exponential growth of photovoltaic and solar, the interest and contribution of our researchers, technological centers and companies in the new solutions linked to offshore wind, linked to floating photovoltaic, linked to hydrogen position us - very important and very attractive for investors - in a very good situation to reduce the impacts of this crisis on the citizens, to bet on the construction, the anticipation of the present and the future. That law that you are so opposed to, the climate change law, allows us to think about how to respond to the water and food needs of the Spaniards; how to prevent tourists from coming to 47o; how to ensure that we have energy at reasonable, predictable, stable prices, with growth in employment, with growth in modern and competitive industry and with capacity for collaboration, cooperation, beyond our borders with our neighbours and partners in the economic, political, prosperity and development fields. Do you know what Spain's indigenous resources are? The sun and the wind. As a plan for the recovery of the pandemic, we wanted to boost the ecological transition. As a recipe, at the moment, it is clear that we must speed it up. Much of this plan has, precisely, led to a transformation of our energy model and is being extraordinarily well received by our citizens. At this time we have approved four renewable energy auctions, which make it possible to reduce the average price significantly, and in the coming months we will see an auction for solar thermal power, biomass and photovoltaic distributed for small installations or an auction for wind and photovoltaic installations in November. Each installed megawatt makes us more independent, makes us cheaper in access to energy, puts us better to face the challenges of climate change. We are not talking about whims, we are talking about reality, including the need to have additional professionals for the installations of these plants, something that entrepreneurs in the sector are already demanding and in what my colleagues in Industry, Employment and Education are working on. The same applies in the field of hydrogen: two out of three dollars invested in hydrogen worldwide are invested in Spain, in the entire value chain, including the industrial value chain and the production of equipment. In parallel with the structural reforms we are carrying out, we are also working to give a short-term response to the context we face, adopting successive packages of measures on the two components of the energy bill in which it is more obvious the possibility to intervene directly on the part of the State, taxation and the fixed costs associated with transport and distribution, reducing in a very significant way, as has never been done, the tax burden of our electricity bill, making it face the heating season in the gas bill. The 80% reduction in tolls for electric intensive consumers or the compensation for indirect CO2 emissions costs allows the industry to compete and survive at a time as complicated as this, advancing the modernisation of its processes, facilitating coverage of the industrial fabric, but also with a package of social support - fundamental - in the electric social bond and the thermal bond, as well as other measures to promote small-scale self-consumption or to support consumers in each of the energy forms we live with. Because, it is true, the price of gas as a result of the regulatory design affects the price of electricity and, as a whole, the prices of energy, and ends up being transferred to the whole economy. So there are things that we need to solve in Europe, and that is what we have been working on for over a year now, and today Europe and its main economies are proposing, drawing inspiration, pointing in the same direction, a path that we have taken, unfortunately, against the right-wing bench. [[Applauds]] We have designed an effective mechanism that has proved useful in protecting the bill of citizens and businesses, far away from the bill paid by the rest of European citizens and businesses. Therefore, it is false what you say. We have promoted measures around energy saving and efficiency to optimize resources and make intelligent use of energy, and we will continue to do so. We have promoted electrification of end-uses wherever possible. We have facilitated the development and deployment of renewables, also encouraging the use of the resources of the Recovery Plan - it seems that they did not like it very much - to invest in those decisions that generate savings, efficiency and positive impact for public and private consumers immediately, as well as a great attraction for innovation and employment. It is now a year since the government pioneered its leadership within the European Union and today we are discussing a regulation that openly talks about taxation, participation and extraordinary alteration of the pricing system in the field of electricity and accompanying citizens, sharing the burden fairly. These are the brilliant present and future we want for our country and for the Spaniards, and we do not want, however, the dark past, to return to the cave, to a past in which few came out winning while many left the skin. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u151	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u152	Minister, there are a number of doubts. Either you're terribly wrong or you're lying shamelessly. It comes and tells us that the 2030 Agenda was approved by a public consultation process. Who did you consult with? The same people who participate in the interviews now with Pedro Sánchez? The same people who take part in Pedro Sánchez's TV show? Did you consult with those people? It is the Spanish people who must be consulted, who will be harmed by the measures that you are taking. [[Applauds]] That is who you have to consult, and you are consulted in the ballot box. You, in your proposal, in your political programme, concealed all these measures and, worse still, conceal the direct consequences of those measures. Therefore, you did not consult Spain. Moreover, when Spain is consulted - recently, in Castile and León and Andalusia - it has said no to you. He sent them home because he is aware that the policies they are implementing are harmful to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It tells us that Spain was in a privileged situation because of its low dependence on Russian gas. I can admit it, but it's just that, as a matter of fact, you go and dynamite the relationship that avoided that dependence. Its president explicitly insults Algeria, flying, almost literally, the only pipeline that freed Spain from Russia's dependence and putting us in Putin's arms, so much so that Spain has multiplied its purchases of Russian gas in recent quarters. It is a real shame that you dare to come here to say that we had little dependence, because, if we had little dependence, you, as nefarious socialist rulers who are, have dynamized that independence. [[Applauds]] You say: I am proud to be European. Like it's a monopoly of yours. Madam Minister, I believe that we are all proud to be Europeans and Spaniards, and Asturians, of course, but that does not mean that we have to acristically accept all the policies that the European Commission sends us when they are particularly harmful to Spain, to the Spanish countryside, to the Spanish fishermen, to our farmers. [[Applauds]] I can respect my father very much, but when he's wrong, I'll have to have the critical ability to tell him. You seem to welcome here the dogmas that send you absolutely acritic, both these European Commission rules, which harm Spain as much as the 2030 Agenda, which harms the Spaniards so much. You speak without indecent of the weather emergency, dropping the issue of fires. Madam Minister, the fires have been caused by you, by the disastrous management of the forest mass of Spain, which you have restricted to the maximum. [[Applauds]] You have prevented our farmers, our farmers and rural Spain from managing the countryside in the traditional way they did, and that is why in the countryside and the Spanish mountain, which is uncultivated, uncultivated and unexploited, the potentially combustible forest mass is multiplying, which has caused the fires that we have faced. That's the point. You talk about industrial energy autonomy. I don't know what your plan would be, Minister, but you're getting exactly the opposite. Spain is, today, less autonomous and more dependent on external energy. Spain is now more dependent, less independent, therefore, on industrial matters; without going further, ArcelorMittal, in Asturias, has announced the closure of one of the blast furnaces and Celsa has closed this summer for four consecutive weeks some of its plants in Asturias, when never in forty years of existence of the group had produced such a closure. Renewable energy, Minister, is fantastic, but don't burn the boats. Start with renewable energy, let's push as we continue to take advantage of the other energy sources that we have in Spain The day will come when renewable energy will be able to supply all of Spain's supply, sure, but until then don't restrict the rest of the energy sources, which is precisely why prices are unstable, volatile and rising, just the opposite of what you say in your intervention. [[Applauds]] And you're talking about the momentum of the ecological transition. We have already told you: boost the exploitation of irrigation in Spain and promote the interconnection of the water basins of Spain. That would really boost the ecological transition, because what you are doing is putting the Spaniards on the street and, if not, asking the workers of Arcelor, Celsa or the automotive sector, all of them on the street for their sectarian and dogmatic policies. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u153	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u154	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you welcome the fact that we have a government that defends this agenda, which has precisely its justification for the support that the Spanish citizens offer to this agenda. That's why we're government. [[Applauds]] But I'm going to tell you more about some of the things I see you don't know deeply. The first is that it was the United Nations that made this consultation to all citizens in a telematic way in 2015. [[Laughter]] So we didn't organize anything. The second is that I do not know why you have taken a mania to the 2030 Agenda or what you do not like: decent employment?, education?, access to health?, protection of marine life?, energy at reasonable prices? [[Applauds]] I don't know what they don't like. I see them deeply ideologically against the well-being of people and, of course, denying science, knowledge and data, and that is worrying, enormously worrying. I will also remind you what the surveys say, to which you should always take as a reference, as indicators, and not as absolute truths. In June 2022, the survey carried out by BBVA on this subject showed that, while there were 44% of Spanish citizens who were very concerned about climate change in 2008, in June 2022 that figure reached 71%. Something similar happens with the El País barometer, which in September 2022 indicates that, after this terrifying summer, more than 90% of Spanish citizens say they are extremely concerned about climate change. So point it at the agenda. It is also surprising that you think that Spain should not maintain the best of relations with Algeria and Morocco or that you doubt Algeria's compliance with its contractual commitments, because there is really nothing to indicate that this is not going to be the case. And we will continue to work to have the best possible relationship with our two neighbours. Let me also ask you a third question which seems very striking to me. You consider that we, who have been working together, that on the other hand it is how we can make progress in Europe, an agenda on which we all help ourselves, on which we all contribute and on which we in this country have enjoyed enormously the solidarity and understanding of Europeans, including those who have been net contributors for many years, we welcome - how did you say - what is being said in Europe? I do not really understand what it means, because I believe that building Europe is one of the most important and positive challenges for Spanish citizens. Let me make a few comments about your decalogue. They say: we want a national energy sovereignty plan. I repeat that I suppose they refer to what we have of truth, sun and wind. You can count on the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, which we will have to review over the course of 2023. Your proposals are certainly very interesting. They propose that Spain abandon the Paris Agreement and the European Green Pact. I don't know where they want us to go. I insist that we are convinced that proposing cavern or autarchy is not the most favorable recipe for the Spaniards, nor to ignore the risks, the actual costs and the evolution of data with regard to the climate and its impact on the economic life of the Spaniards: floods, droughts and heat waves reveal what they represent in everyday life. I understand that, when they say that the emissions market and the allocation of rights through an auction must be eliminated, they consider it more reasonable that, with a planned economy, we publish in the OEB what it is for everyone to pay for polluting and minimizing the effects of that pollution on the citizens of Spanish society as a whole. In parallel, in a contradictory way, they say that the full amount of the amount collected by the allowances must be devoted to the invoice. We devote 25% of our revenue to supporting the industrial fabric and the rest to facilitating the Spanish bill, and also, of course, to driving the transformation of our system to achieve cleaner, more efficient, cheaper and predictable results. Something similar happens to them with this ideological opposition to the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. I repeat that I do not know what you will say to farmers without water, without fertile land, to tourism at 47 degrees or to the citizens who burst into the streets of Madrid as a result of the heat waves, without protection. [[Applauds]] They propose to require a change in the regulation of the marginalist mechanism. I suppose, then, they agree with us and with the Iberian mechanism. They seek to push forward proposals to increase strategic gas reserves when we are already at 84% of storage. And the most peculiar thing is that they still think that we have plenty of water and that we can move from one place to another, without paying attention to what climate scenarios tell us...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u155	Your Honor, you should finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u156	Yeah. We are going to ensure access to water, but that is precisely why we need to realistically anticipate, seriously, what water we have, what additional contribution can be made and how it can be distributed efficiently among different users. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u157	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on progress in the development of the loss of the electric and connected vehicle and its impact on a strategic sector for the Spanish economy as a whole. [[File number 172/000233]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u158	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the progress in the development of the PERTE of the electric and connected vehicle and its impact on a strategic sector for the Spanish economy such as automotive. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u159	President, Minister, today we are here for you to give a detailed account before the Chamber of the execution of the PERTE by antonomasia, that of the electric car, which we have been sold over and over again to the Spaniards as an example of what the implementation of the funds of the European reconstruction mechanism can entail and what must be an incentive for national and international investors to bet on our country. Allow me, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to make a brief chronology of this project in almost two years. The Royal Decree Law 36/2020 of 30 December gave birth to the PERTE mechanism as an investment vehicle for European funds to transform our economy, especially the industrial one, through the selection of tractor projects that will energize the chosen strategic sectors. No one doubts that the car sector is strategic for Spain, both in terms of its weight in the gross domestic product, around 7.7% of our GDP and up to 11% if we consider other sectors involved, as in employment, 9% of the Spanish employed population. It is also key from an international point of view, because we are the second largest producer in the European Union and the ninth largest producer in the world. 80% of the vehicles produced in Spain are exported, representing 15% of our exports. But, on the other hand, it is a sector that has experienced a sharp drop in its activity since the pandemic - we are still at 2014 levels - and, as a result of climate change, it needs a profound transformation that allows it to adapt to the new needs without losing its weight in the Spanish economy, and not by the sector itself, which also, but because we cannot afford it, because we are not very full of industrial activity and the car is one of our flags, nationally and internationally, and it gives us quality jobs, which is the objective that must be achieved at a time when our unemployment rates are twice as high as those of Europeans. I think it is clear that we too would have chosen the car sector if we had been able to do so, although the discretion in the selection of the PERTE was one of the reasons why we voted against the royal decree law to which I have just referred. There are not all who are or are all who are, but that is not what is causing the interpellation that we are doing to him today. [[Applauds]] On 4 March last year at the congress of a trade union, UGT FICA, you announced on a drum and platter that the first PERTE - this - had already been approved and that your successful bidder was to be the factory of Volkswagen de Martorell, in a consortium of which other companies, including Iberdrola, would be part. That moment - I was there - was surprising, minister, because you knew or at least should know that the PERTE have to be awarded by competitive competition, according to the royal decree law that I have just quoted, and had not carried out its formal authorization nor its call nor much less, obviously, its award. From the article by President Sánchez in El País on the 7th and from the visit to Martorell's facilities with King Philip VI and the president of the company walking dots to refer to the award no longer speak. [[Applauds]] On 13 July 2021, the Council of Ministers finally approved the PERT as such - new cylinders and plates - and, obviously, without pointing out successful tenderers. It had been four months since his first announcement. We had to wait until December 23, 2021 for you to issue a ministerial order with the regulatory bases of the call, five months and ten more days. It is true that Brussels did not approve its project design until 9 December of that year, but that abounds in the immaturity of what you announce over and over again. With the regulatory bases already approved, it is not until March 17, 2022, another three months, that you initial a new ministerial order calling for the aid, modifying the regulatory bases of December and giving the deadline until May 3 for the submission of the projects. It seemed that it was already, but not, because on 25 April it extended the deadline until 17 May, and on 13 May, Saturday, until 3 June, which is already the final deadline. With regard to these delays, he has not given any public explanations. They are delays in the closure of the call which, on the other hand, have not been accompanied by the extension of the deadlines for the implementation of the projects and which have assumed that some stakeholders have withdrawn because they are unable to comply with them - that is what I will talk about later. The excuse for extending the deadlines has been to increase competition, which seems a little difficult to believe given the complexity of the call and the multiplicity of the requirements requested and the formation of the consortia themselves to be presented. Perhaps it could be the need of one of the presenters, who does so in an extended time frame, according to news reports, and is led by a former Secretary of State for Energy of his Government. We'd like you to clarify that for us. On this request I will come back later. [[Applauds]] The PARTE from the beginning is sold as a large public-private collaboration operation. President Sánchez, in the March 7 El País article, literally wrote: It is a relevant fact the constitution of a large public-private consortium of the Government with the Volkswagen and Iberdrola Group, which will allow us to mount the first battery plant for Spain and one of the first for Europe. Now I'm going to refer to the award, but, of that, nothing, from the public-private consortium, nothing. We already know, Minister, what the President's word is worth, but writing it in a national newspaper and on such an important matter portrays it. In the end, when the PARTE is approved, public-private collaboration is constrained to an alliance for the electric vehicle and connected to have the participation of all relevant actors, but this does not pull, it has not been approved, which is not an obstacle for you to announce it wherever you go. I give two examples. On 14 October, almost a year ago, in the presentation of the El Mundo Motor Protagonist Award, the title was 'Industry announces the creation of the alliance for the electric and connected vehicle' and on 15 June - the day before yesterday, but not so much - at the Global Mobility Call Congress, 'Industry will launch the Alliance of PERT VEC to strengthen the public-private collaboration of the automotive table in July'. I, of course, have not yet seen creation. They don't do much, minister, but they don't stop selling. What happens is that when you try to sell the same thing many times in a row you have not been able to put it in the first place - perhaps because they did not actually have it - but that is a lack of respect for the citizens and the sectors involved. Finally, it comes on 3 June, the deadline for applications is finally closed and on 1 August the proposal for an interim resolution on the procedure for granting aid was announced. Of the EUR 4300 million foreseen for this PERT, 2975 had been tendered out in 1550 grants and 1425 loans. Thirteen groups of companies had been submitted and ten were considered eligible; therefore, three of them, in all cases for failing to comply with the tractor project, denied the minimum structure of the PERTE, which was an exclusive criterion for the concession. The final resolution is not yet known. 703 million have been awarded, of which 476 are grants, 30 % of the total, and 226 in loans, 16 %, but one of the main successful tenderers, 106 million euros, Ford Spain, has given up the aid because it is unable to meet the requirements and deadlines required. With this decrease, at the expense of the final resolution, the degree of implementation amounts to 26% of grants and 13% of loans. What do you have to say to this low degree of execution after so many months of waiting, minister? What is your opinion as manager of these funds and responsible for Industry in our country, with what has happened with Ford Spain's proposal? [[Applauds]] I have pointed out that the final award is not known, it has not yet been made public, but you, on the last day 9, have again made announcements of awards that are rejected or that, simply, are not bid - we have no information to see -, among them the award to Envision, project VENERGY+, which was on the list of those rejected, of which, apart from the reference, we have no more knowledge, as I said. Envision, by the way, is the group headed by the former Secretary of State of his Government, to which I referred earlier. And fifteen days before you said so, the minister of finance in Cáceres also spoke, more or less, that the project was to be carried out; rejected by the award court. Understand me, it is not that we are against the construction of the giant lithium battery factory in Navalmoral, quite the contrary, but it is well enough to skip the procedures, to sell what should not be sold and to give the feeling that competitive competition presents serious deficiencies or shines through its absence, a concurrence to which it obliges the real decree law and the Spanish and European regulations of use of public funds and which is the best guarantee that concessions are not manipulated. Can you give us more information about this project, that of lithium batteries, here in Parliament, and not at a press conference? Finally, the LOSS VEZ, the first, the star project, has a frankly disappointing degree of execution. It is not successful in its calls - it could be said that, after the resolution of the first, they are a failure - and it has the sector frankly concerned. The design, requirements and timetables of the PERTE are not adapted to the needs of this sector, which is a mature sector, which does not cheat on itself and which knows very well what its needs are to respond satisfactorily to what is on it, to continue generating wealth and jobs in Spain, with modern and competitive solutions, as it has done on other occasions. You have generated many expectations, you have made announcements that do not materialize, and here we are, with the data I have given you. With things to eat - let me license - you don't play games. It seems that this reconstruction plan, which is so important to Spain and which they claim as their own and only their own, comes to them great, minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u160	The next item is the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u161	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth, Mrs Rodríguez, is that you have accused me of many things in your presentation, but one thing I must blame you for is the lack of rigour in the administrative procedure. I have listened very carefully to your views, your criticisms, and you have ended up saying that he has failed, and I have the same idea, Mrs Rodriguez, of the question that the President of the Government asked Mr. Feijoo last week in the Senate: What is your insolvency or bad faith? I say this because, in fact, you should know the administrative procedures and the difference between the provisional and final resolution when making value judgments; you should know that to assess the effectiveness of an aid programme you have to wait for the final resolution. And I can explain it to you with an example: a teacher cannot put the exam note to a student without the student, Your Honor, having completed the exam. They are still installed at the worst, seriously damaging and damaging the image of Spain abroad and questioning the leadership of our automotive sector. You yourself have said that you are defending the sector, that you have not been able to do anything - then I will talk about it - but with your statements all you get, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is to damage the image outside our automotive industry. What is clear from his statement is that the People's Party remains committed to boycotting European funds, which do not reach our country to transform our productive model and strengthen our welfare state. When the government was negotiating the European funds, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, went to Brussels to boycott the more than €70 billion we are going to invest through the Transformation, Recovery and Resilience Plan. When we brought to this House - you referred to this - the validation of the royal decree law that expedites the execution of European funds and created the figure of the PERTE, you, ladies and gentlemen, voted against it. Every time they have the opportunity to question the management of European funds, they should explain, ladies and gentlemen, to businesses and families why they are against productive investment and the creation of quality jobs. And the answer is clear, ladies and gentlemen: European funds are a completely different way of dealing with the economic crisis, they have nothing to do with the cuts and austerity that the People's Party applied in 2012, and we all remember that, especially the millions of Spaniards who lost our jobs as a result of the disastrous management of their crisis. Because, Your Honor, what are you trying to boycott European funds? Do you want to prevent investment and prosperity from reaching our country? Say it clearly. The reality is that the only one that has failed in this strategy is the People's Party, which has not lived up to the challenges we have had to face in this country; they were not when they were needed in the pandemic and are not now, when they are needed to manage the European funds. I do not understand this way of opposing the People's Party, a destructive opposition, a negationist opposition, which is also unique in Europe. Frankly, I do not know in the main countries of the European Union where good news is being used, such as having obtained European funds, to criticize, ladies and gentlemen, not the Government, but Spain. The PP of Casado began when he went to Brussels to boycott the European funds, and Mr Feijóo's PP continues now. They always try to create problems, rather than seek solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, they change their faces, but not the ways to oppose them. And in view of the lack of rigour, I would like to share with you some data that show that since our arrival in the government there has been a great boost in the electrification of our car industry in Spain. The data are clear and public. ANFAC published the August data: sales of electrified vehicles grow by 11% and are placed as a second purchase option. Tomorrow, the Auto Mobility Trends report will be published, which is published every year by Global Car, which says: Investments remain safe despite great uncertainty, 71% of companies will increase or maintain their global investment stake in 2022. And the last one we have seen, ladies and gentlemen, this week, a report by EWay, which says: Spain in the world top five of the regulation concerning electric mobility thanks, among other things, ladies and gentlemen, to the loss of the electric vehicle and connected. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, lack of rigour in your presentation and doubts about the bet this Government is making on the electric and connected vehicle. [[Applauds]] The failure of the People's Party - and you said it in your exhibition, Mrs Rodriguez - is not to have started before in this process of modernization of our plants. It did not, the People's Party did not care about the future of the automotive industry. Look, they had neither Ministry of Industry nor influence in the European Union, as the government of Pedro Sánchez, a government that has shown its firm commitment to the automobile industry, has done. In 2020 it was one of the support plans that we approved to respond to the consequences of the pandemic, the plan to boost the value chain of the car towards connected and sustainable mobility, a framework of collaboration with the sector that is allowing us to deploy the project to which you referred, the electric and connected vehicle PART that we approved in July 2021. This PART was adopted, ladies and gentlemen, only one month after obtaining the light of the European Commission. The speed of its adoption shows not only the Government's commitment to the sector, but also the intense work of analysis and collaboration that was carried out during the previous months. It is going to mobilize a volume of support funds for the automotive industry that is unprecedented so far; an initiative to boost the integral value chain of the electric vehicle with the aim of creating the necessary ecosystem so that it can be manufactured and developed in its entirety in our country. It is a process of transformation, ladies and gentlemen, which left Mr Rajoy's government completely abandoned to its fate. The duties were not done, Your Honor, for lack of a vision of the future on the competitive needs of our automotive plants. And, yes, thanks to the Government's commitment, we have launched this project, with an investment of EUR 3 billion and a private investment capacity of around EUR 12 billion. And you ask me, and you've made a story about your development. On 23 December, as you know, we approved the regulatory bases, in an exercise of transparency - and you should know - to strengthen the competitive competition of companies. We first publish the order of bases, to give anticipation to the companies to prepare the projects, which, as you know, are projects in which a collaborative character is needed, integrating several companies and also guaranteeing the tractor effect throughout the value chain. The changes we have made and also the extension of the deadline are aimed at strengthening competitive competition, creating a clear and sufficient legal framework to accommodate the greatest variety of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which you have not mentioned, but also new start-ups, and ultimately strengthening the Government's commitment to the value chain. As you said, on 1 August we published the draft provisional resolution, in the light of the agreements adopted by the evaluation committee, which met on 28 July. We are currently assessing the claims made to these provisional aid decisions. There is no final resolution yet, and you should know that because Mr Aznar was a member of the Government and, therefore, he knows the administrative procedures very well. So let the ministry's technicians work; they are people who need their time to assess all the allegations and, no doubt, draw the best motion for a resolution, which I am convinced will satisfy us all. I made some statements that I certainly have to answer. You were talking about Ford. I would have liked him to have read Ford's communication, in which he valued the efforts of the Spanish Government and where he was committed to the investment we have brought to Valencia to guarantee the future of the factory. Do not doubt, Your Honor, the work we are doing from the government, because, as I said, every time you attack us, you also attack Spain, you also attack our industry, which is undoubtedly well accompanied by the government's proposals. In conclusion, one last thought, and I think it is up to what is expected of an industrial minister. Your Honor, I am proud - I insist, proud - to carry out this tractor project. You were talking about two years ago. I have been in the Ministry of Industry for four years and where there is an opportunity there is the Minister of Industry: China, Korea, Japan, and I have also visited the Vestas plant in California, yes, to find out what development the automotive industry is having. And thanks to this knowledge, today we will lead, despite the People's Party, the great transformation of our car industry. And it will be done by the government that today represents President Sánchez. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u163	Minister - to begin by order -, a couple of months ago I had the responsibility of making an urgent appeal to a minister of the Government - I made it to a vice-president, but a minister came to replace it - and today I have had to do it to you, and the common denominator is that, please, the Rules are read, since, when an urgent inquiry is made by a Member of this House, it is for you to answer, to answer the questions we ask you, and not for you to talk about other things and say what was not done three, four or five years ago. [[Applauds]] We're not at that time, so let's see if they're working on it a little bit. Well, they don't care and they go up as they go up. Second question, before we start. Look, minister, half-truths are the worst lies, and you have released here a lot of half-truths; the saying says so. And in the words of the spokesman for her government, Minister Rodriguez, lies are sin; that said four or five days ago. Well, you've had enough of sinning here today. Take the reference of the ANFAC report today, day 14 - we have seen it - and what is the headline? That we're stalling on the electromobility. So, anyway, what you've come to say here is useless. [[Applauds]] But, anyway, it's the same thing. I do administrative procedure, with the age I am and my professional career, I know a lot. I did not get involved in the administrative procedure, as it were, when the dossiers came; I got involved in their procedure. You cannot say in March at a union congress that you have awarded the first PERTE to a business group, minister, as you did in public, when you knew - I suppose, and, if you didn't know, much worse - that you couldn't and should do it; group that, by the way, has come out with an important award - the last of the ten, but with an important award -. I say again, as I say with the giant battery factory, that it is not that I am against the project - that I am not misinterpreted -; what harms Spain - and people read the news - is not what the PP says, is what you do. What do you want me to say to him? [[Applauds]] Finally, they say that we are committed to boycotting European funds; that is not the case and that we are not talking about that. How does boycott occur? When there is this low execution, when they cannot reach the end of the Spanish economy, which needs it so much. You say it's the procedure. No, look, there's quite a disability. [[The lady]] And I don't mess with the officials who are reviewing the allegations, I would miss more!, I mess with the Minister of Finance, nothing more and nothing less than the Minister of Finance, says in Cáceres almost three weeks ago that the allegations are going to be taken into account and that the giga factory is going to be made - it has come out in the press - with funds from PERTE. It will be done if the allegations are remedied. Have you read the reasons why these projects have been rejected? What he wants me to say to him, but it seems that the terms that have been used - he says that the tractor project of the LOST does not adapt to what the PART says - are a little difficult to remedy. I wish I didn't. That's why I was asking him for explanations. I have asked you some very simple questions, minister, which you have not answered. I have asked you questions about why we have this low degree of execution. Why when the auctions come out, even though we award the issue, the execution rate remains poor? In order for it to grow and have an effect on industry, money has to reach businesses, and this way it does not arrive. It is not we who boycott the funds, it is you, I do not know why - I say again, in my opinion, that this is great for you - those who are not able to apply them. [[Applauds]] And I also asked him what he felt about Ford, as head of the Ministry of Industry, why 106 million are not baladians and a company does not give up that for free. Finally, he has not given us any more information about the lithium battery project. He now says he respects the committee that has to deal with the allegations, but, of course, according to the news we have seen in the press, you have not respected anything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u165	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, you accuse me of false truths; I accused you of lying. And I'm going to answer your questions. It has again pointed out and reiterated the lack of implementation of European funds. Your Honor, we were the first country in which the European Union approved the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. We are in the second evaluation report, being the first country to receive refunds. She should know - because the first vice president was here last week, in Congress, in her Commission, giving the implementation data of the European funds - that 66% of the Next Generation funds budgeted for the year 2022 have been authorized, for an amount committed that exceeds 53%. We have held more than 100 sectoral conferences and have transferred more than EUR 18 billion to the Autonomous Communities to finance projects in the area of their competence. That is the degree of implementation of all Next Generation funds. But in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, where we are managing around €7 billion, we have authorised 68%, €48 billion. That's the data, and you're the ones that generate lies, noise, and chrispation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u166	Mrs. Moraleja, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u167	You again refer to Envision's project and also talk about the presentation of Volkswagen's project in Martorell, but you have forgotten, Your Honor, that a year ago also the president, the king, myself and the president of the Junta de Castilla y León were presenting the investment that Renault, Renault Ution, is going to make in Castilla y León but also in Seville with the exchange boxes, which is part of one of the tractor projects that Renault has presented to us. He talks about some, but he forgets about others. He also referred to last week's visit to Las Navas del Marqués. He was not alone, Your Honor; there was the president of the Junta de Castilla y León, who yesterday lent himself to go again to Ávila, in this case to Arévalo, to criticize the PAST. You have two sides: first you take the picture with President Sánchez and the minister to put in value the investment that will arrive and then, the next day, you change the face and criticize the European funds. [[Applauds]] I will tell you three things that I think are going to make it very clear what we are talking about, three things that should certainly clarify the state of affairs. About when you were talking about the loss and the failure of this government's loss, Your Honor, the PART is a country project, it's a PART for Spain, to modernize the car industry. I insist, I am very proud and we give time to see, indeed, what the final results are, because, certainly, if we have those projects today it is because the Spanish industry and the multinationals have responded to the challenge by presenting us with projects that will change and will accelerate the transition in our country; a project in which, as I said, we are in its phase of allegations, assessing ourselves, and therefore waiting for the final resolution. And I was talking about lies because, no doubt, if I tell half the truths, again you lie. And Mr. Feijoo I have to answer, because last week in the Senate he was willing to say that a plant, the only old aluminium plant that was still left in Spain, in Lugo, which he knew very well, had closed. It's not true, and he should know, that he's been president of the Xunta. We are talking about lies, ladies and gentlemen, chryspas, noise, and I should know that it has not closed, because, thanks to the struggle of the workers, thanks to the struggle of the population of La Mariña and the support of the Government, that plant will open and will produce green aluminum, because we are accompanying it. [[Applauds]] So, stop chrysping, ladies and gentlemen; leave the chrysping, the lie; leave the noise and propose solutions. And put, Your Honor, to blame this minister, look, we have been taking steps since September last year to deal with the biggest energy crisis in the world. We had to wait until last week for Mr Feijoo to show us a portfolio that said: PP measures to address the energy crisis. And a week later, we were presented with the measurements, which are a short stick. Without a doubt, that is a lack of management. [[Protests and rumors]] Therefore, we are going to dedicate ourselves to what we are, to protect the middle and working classes, to transform this country...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u168	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u169	...and we regret that we can't do it with the People's Party, which is still in the no, because he doesn't seem to be the only thing you know how to say. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u170	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u171	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation to explain the steps she intends to take to improve the effective implementation, transparency and control of the European funds associated with the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Elorriaga Pisarik has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u172	Thank you very much, President. Today we are debating a motion following an inquiry which was completed two and a half months ago but whose topicality has not only not disappeared, but has been considerably strengthened. If the concerns we expressed at the time were important, then the data we have seen in the past have only exacerbated our great concern. We have had a good example in the question we have just heard, where the Minister of Industry has been absolutely unable to offer a real data on the implementation of European funds. [[Applauds]] Here we know the budgetary procedure, and we cannot talk about authorised expenditure and not about those recognised and paid, which is what really matters. [[Applauds]] The Next Generation Programme has been the successful response of the European Union to the consequences of the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic, a decision - and it must be remembered, it seems - led by a European Commission chaired by the People's Party, at the initiative of the People's Party, and approved by a European Parliament where the majority has it by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We are therefore fully committed to this initiative and wish more than anyone its full success. But it should be understood that this programme cannot be assessed by simply injecting resources into national budgets. This plan must be judged by its real impact on the economy, whether or not it is helping the recovery, whether or not it facilitates the creation of quality jobs, whether or not it promotes the competitiveness and productivity of the Spanish economy. In short, what we must check is whether it is really helping to be more competitive and, thus, whether more opportunities are being offered to Spanish citizens. Our country urgently needs to grow, not continue to separate from Europe in per capita income, and to create high-productive and high-quality, non-fixed, discontinuous jobs that accumulate precarious indefinite contracts or public employees that consolidate greater structural deficit. For this reason, a rapid, effective and transparent implementation of the funds is essential, and this is where the figures, promises and proclamations clash with reality. The European Court of Auditors warns us that Spain is at the forefront of the low implementation of structural funds. It's a disaster the management of the LOST. The information on failed calls and the cancellation of already completed invitations to tender are followed. We have already entered the really important phase of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, this is the crucial part, its execution, and this is where the serious problems for Spain are beginning. We have been the best in the presentations, in the graphics, in the projects and in the promises, but, at the time of implementation, the reality of the management of this Government is very sad. On 30 June we were only able to execute 9,2 % of the budgeted funds for the 2022 financial year, according to the data provided by the General State Intervention, and this without knowing what the actual execution was, that is, without having any information about what money has actually reached its final recipients, companies and SMEs. We also did not know what the final execution of the 2021 financial year was, because the Government ordered the General Intervention to stop publishing data from 31 August, and we only know from a report from the Banco de España that the impact of these funds on our GDP during 2021 was non-existent, just 0.3%. And for this year, 2022, the estimate varies between 1.6% of the Banco de España and 1.8% of the AIReF, far from the 2.5% estimated by the Government. The only thing we know today is that the beneficiaries of the few funds distributed are public companies and some large IBEX companies. These implementation problems are due to a number of reasons. It has not been intended to have territorial administrations in the design of the plan, as required by the European Regulation, nor is it now in its implementation. Their debate was not brought to the attention of these General Courts, as was the case in other European countries. The characteristics of the Spanish business fabric have not been taken into account. There has been a clumsy rush to approve calls with too short deadlines, sometimes less than nine days, which have proved impossible for SMEs to access and which raise clear doubts about the clearance of procedures. There is a lack of staff specialized in administration and there are no adequate follow-up tools. According to one survey, 65% of the public employees responsible for managing the funds consider the system designed to be ineffective or ineffective. What we propose with this motion is to offer some solutions to the many problems that exist, by improving the accountability and transparency of data, by facilitating the final implementation of 2021, by providing data on the final recipients who have actually received these funds and which of them are SMEs, that is, we ask to disaggregate the implementation data and to provide detailed information on their impact in terms of growth and job creation, which is really important, not the expenditure authorized in the Ministry of Industry. We call for the deployment of the tools needed to improve transparency, accountability and accessibility to all information related to PERTE, which shines out of their absence. We call for the necessary measures to be taken to ensure that funds are applied in line with the requirements of the European Regulation. Finally, the Recovery and Resilience Programme should be coordinated with the management of the Structural and Investment Funds, with the cohesion policy to exhaust all available resources, avoid duplication, speed up procedures and study complementary investments. An amendment has been tabled to this motion by the VOX Group, which we are not going to admit, not because we do not agree with one of its approaches, but simply because it comes from the content of the previously raised inquiry and from the objective sought with this proposal. It is, I insist, a motion that should be supported by all the members of the House, since the only thing we are demanding is transparency in the procedures, real information on the degree of implementation of the approved programmes and, ultimately, open, free and transparent debate among all if these funds really are having an impact on the Spanish economy, on growth and on job creation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorriaga. In defence of the amendment put forward by your group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta spoke by the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u174	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Do you know what are the main objectives of the Next Generation funds associated with the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism? According to the European Commission, there are three: helping Member States to recover, relaunching the economy and supporting private investment. Currently, none, but none of the three objectives, are being met. First of all, because the recovery of our country, so often mentioned by the Executive, is a dream more of one Government that lies and that recounts an illusionist speech full of sweet smell of naphthaline, perhaps prelude to parliamentary dysfunction. The funds should be used to carry out investments in the public and private sectors to improve the productivity of the economy, but they are not becoming a lever for economic growth and their impact has been virtually nil in 2021 and scarce in 2022, according to the AIReF and the Banco de España. [[Rumors]] During the year 2021 there was a drop in Spanish productivity never before seen in economic history, 6.6% lower than at the beginning of the crisis. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u175	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Jiménez. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u176	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has the lowest productivity of the great powers of the euro; it is 7 points below the European Union average and not the base of 100 European benchmarks since at least 2005. Secondly, as far as the funds should have revived the Spanish economy, the situation is as follows - and, ladies and gentlemen, these are data -: Spain's GDP in the second quarter of 2022 is 2.6% lower than the figures for the fourth quarter of 2019. The trade deficit has increased to 31 963 million in the first quarter. Spain has the highest unemployment rate in the European Union and the total number of unemployed is more than 3.3 million unemployed, including the unemployed and those of limited availability and, as you know, August has closed with 190,000 fewer jobs adding up to 40,000 more unemployed. The indebtedness of public administrations has reached a historical peak and already exceeds 1.47 billion euros. Inflation in July, as has already been said here this morning, was confirmed at 10.8%, and in August it is 10.5%, while the euro area average remains below 9%. Thirdly, on the objective of supporting private investment, the Executive once again demonstrates its incompetence in boosting the economy. In the first half of the year, they have only made payments from the funds amounting to EUR 2620 million, i.e. 9,2 % of the budgeted for the whole year, according to data published by the General Intervention of the State Administration. Of this volume of payments, 65 %, i.e. EUR 17 billion, have been paid to the Autonomous Communities to publish their calls and tenders, the pace of which is unknown since they are not made public. This means that, in practice, the money that has come to private companies and public bodies is only EUR 920 million. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the money from the funds is not reaching the self-employed, SMEs or small businesses. [[Applauds]] What are the reasons? Excessive red tape: only 14% of SMEs plan to participate in the award processes, deadlines that cannot be met, sometimes there are only ten days for the registration of applications, lack of transparency and opacity in the destination of the funds, little and late execution of the funds, when the main focus of the funds, their destination, is the public sector, and a scant impact on the economy, as I have said before, as the AIReF has commented. That is why, since VOX, and considering the motion tabled today by the People's Party, we have tabled an amendment with two paragraphs that improve the operative part, although the People's Party has expressed its rejection. The first and fundamental is to promote measures to increase the participation of SMEs, entrepreneurs and self-employed people, and that money, that money, reaches the self-employed, SMEs and entrepreneurs, which is not happening. [[Applauds]] Secondly - and this is perhaps why those of the People's Party have rejected it - it is to condition the receipt of funds that the autonomous communities comply with the measures proposed by the motion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and other palm trees who really support it, do the Spanish a favour: resign for incompetents because the greater their incompetence, the greater the misery for the Spanish. Really, resign, call elections and allow the Spaniards to decide their future and own their destiny. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. This motion would be totally unnecessary if the Government acted with rigour and transparency, and provided up-to-date accounts on the efficiency of European funds from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism established in 2021 to mitigate the economic failures of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to supporting with my vote the various measures proposed by the Group of the European People's Party, I do not wish to overlook my intervention without pointing out the colossal varapalo suffered by the calamitous management of the COVER funds distributed in the 2021 financial year among the autonomous communities with the aim of helping the recovery of small and autonomous enterprises that had suffered most from the economic consequences of the pandemic. It is a real shame that, in a context of historical crisis caused by the paralysis of the coronavirus, six regions have had to return more than half of the funds at their disposal to the State for mismanagement. Asturias is one of the worst to do so, as it has wasted 55% of the aid; again Asturias, and I am sorry, in the clumsy platoon because of the ruling socialism here and there. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a tragedy that the Court of Auditors of the European Union has warned of Spain's failure to implement European funds. The Sánchez Government has placed our country last in the absorption rate, with only 53 per cent of the funds implemented, threatening the use of recovery and resilience plans, which are an indispensable mechanism to overcome the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. Therefore, we are in the midst of an imminent failure because of the inability and incompetence to manage well and achieve the social profitability for which the European funds were conceived and granted. In short, the Spanish Government is sharpening its conspicuous misadjustment, and it is therefore peremptory that it should be held accountable for the implementation of the European funds because, instead of converging with Europe, we are moving away and thereby compromising the future of the Spaniards of the present and the future. This situation has its precedent in the disastrous stage of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, with Spain then threatened with rescue. In four years and peak of the Sánchez Government's presence, the road to the precipice has resumed. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u180	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion is the continuation of another very similar one from the People's Party nine months ago. On that occasion we said that the government had to put on the batteries and make a great effort to manage the European funds, but we voted against it because the PP's motion was only intended to erode the government, and we demarcate in these ways, we prefer to be constructive; critical, but also constructive. Today's one is written in a less aggressive way than that of December, which is to be appreciated, and the terms of the operative part are also fully consumable, so we are going to vote in favour. However, in addition to control and transparency, there is a need to urge the Government to do more. There is a need for greater coordination between ministries and greater efficiency, because I am very much afraid that there will be sanctions from the European Union. Budget execution is one of the biggest weaknesses of this Government and the data it provides is revealing. The autonomous communities had a great deal of difficulty in taking the funds forward, and the Government was using kick tactics to take responsibility away. The autonomous communities have few resources, and resources and procedures are infertile. In relation to this, today in Cantabria is news the low execution of the funds transferred, and that is one of the autonomous communities with the highest percentage of execution. There is a lack of appropriate policy instruments for the occasion. Gentlemen of the Government, you make another decree law, which in that you are experts, to facilitate management. They did something to unlock the works contracts by increasing the prices of supplies and energy, which were producing work stoppages, deserted tenders, correcting the first decree law with another immediately after, as we asked them in this rostrum. Nevertheless, they did not finish adapting the energy factor to the new reality, and the passage of time has made it worse because of their lack of courage. That is why what is needed now is another change in the treatment of contracts, with an express procedure for the management of funds. Negotiate with the autonomous communities and with the actors involved and do not be timid with the changes. What we play is important enough to take decisive action. Today, the Government of Cantabria has transferred the main challenges and problems identified to the Secretary of State. This crisis requires a Government to make decisions without thinking about its interest.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u181	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u182	I'm on my way. I think the results end up offsetting the inconveniences. I hope they do.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u184	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a motion by the People's Party calling for the breakdown of investment implementation data and reforms of the European-funded Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and its impact in terms of growth and job creation, and ensuring that the implementation of the funds is in line with the objectives set out in the recovery mechanism regulation. The Basque Group also tabled a motion on transparency, good management and accountability in the Joint Commission with regard to European funds in order to clarify and deepen the management of the funds. The European funds of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan are key to the economy, to economic growth, and this has been reflected in the general budgets of the State and also in each of the Government's forecasts of its impact on the economy. That is why we believe it is important to know the details of their execution. In addition, information is essential to use it properly and, therefore, to correct in its transformative objective of the economy and the productive apparatus, but also to overcome those obstacles for its rapid and agile implementation. The truth is that there is a great lack of knowledge about the implementation of these funds, because, moreover, the common platform for European funds is still not operational, a tool to centralise the information of calls and grants and to be able to follow up on the funds that are supposed to have been in force or in operation since November. The Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority has recognized that, although there is information about them, they are quite scattered, making it difficult to quantify their real impact on the economy. Decree 36/2020, in turn, states in its article 22 that the Government shall report quarterly to the Joint Commission on the progress and progress of the plan, and this is true, it is true, on many occasions, although it lacks some precision, and that, although it is true that it gives us periodic information about the quantities authorized, committed or transferred to the autonomous communities, this does not mean that it has been implemented, because the autonomous communities are hardly going to be able to implement them because the actions for which they arrive are planned or have been carried out previously or are not adapted to their needs, and also, as Mr. Mazón has said, because of the administrative obstacles they had at the time of the tender and their execution, because it is true that Decree 36/2020 only allowed flexibility for the general administration of the State, then this has been modified and now we are where we stand. It is necessary to have the maximum information on calls, tenders and execution of funds to know in an up-to-date way how many funds have reached that real economy, the impact on the real economy, and the truth is that today there is a lack of aggregate information on the level of implementation of the funds, which we believe is still an outstanding subject in the Government. As an example, if we go to the information, we find ourselves on the pages with numerous definitions that, far from being concrete, become some difficult to understand gallimaties, because we talk about allocated investments, recognized obligations, authorized expenses, etc. We also understand that it will not be easy to add all that information, and perhaps we need to give a longer time frame for that information platform to be operational. For us, transparency, access to public information and standards of good governance must be the fundamental pillars of any political action. Transparency will also be synonymous or guarantee of compliance with a programme, in this case the recovery plan, because it can be evaluated and, in addition, what is best, appropriate in the case of deviations, and this should not be a problem. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u186	President, ladies and gentlemen, two years have passed since the European countries approved the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and today we are again discussing its management. Since Royal Decree Law 36/2020, of December 2020, continues to be kidnapped in a drawer without being developed as a bill, I assure you that today will not be the last time we do so either. Like that essay by Umberto Eco, the theme of the Next Generation funds raises two opposing positions: the apocalyptics, the completely evil ones, and the integrated ones, in this case the government taking the brunt of an alleged impeccable management that is only in its head. I'll give you a piece of advice, if you'll excuse me, even though I haven't been asked. You don't have to be dramatic, you better be optimistic, but an informed optimist is not the same as an ignorant optimist. It is true that from the beginning Spain has been one of the most advanced countries in the presentation and approval of the plan and also in the request for disbursements to the European Commission, but equally true is that our country, together with Italy, was one of the countries most economically hit by the COVID crisis. Such haste to be the first and all those expectations generated by the Government clash with the obvious reality. The implementation of the plan has been slow in terms of its impact on national accounts and yet we continue to hear Vice President Calviño say that everything is 'phenomenal', and that phenomenal put it in quotes, because she told me personally at the meeting on Monday, in that round of contacts for addendum 2023, and he repeated it today in the control session. The feeling is that the government does not have its feet on the ground; the reality is that 71% of Spaniards believe that the economic situation is bad or very bad. Among the apocalyptics, those that Umberto Eco said completely wrong, and the integrated ones, the vain government, there is a middle term, and that is where we are the liberals: working together so that Spain can take advantage of one of the few but tremendous historical opportunities that we have at our disposal to transform our economy from above down. It is true that we have little aggregate information on how much of that money has reached the real economy, and it is the Government's own obligation to provide in real time and in a transparent, integrated and accessible manner. This PP motion would not exist if the amendment to the whole alternative text proposed by the Liberals in December 2020, which proposed an alternative model that would carry out functions of advising companies, identifying viable projects, selecting and evaluating their impact on the Spanish economy, had come forward. This motion and the complaints of his lords of VOX would not exist if VOX had not saved the government's decree and delivered the keys of the European funds to the government of Sánchez. We have already warned at that time that the lack of transparency and coordination of public administrations made reality clear. The reality is that the Administration is incapable of effectively absorbing these investments, as has been demonstrated year after year by the Structural Funds. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the data we have far away from the more than two points of GDP impacting the real economy that you expected in the general state budgets. The passage of time plays against us because there is a risk that the execution will be subjected to bottlenecks, delays in supplies and components or restrictions of employment with necessary trainings. Also because the start of the rate-up cycle by the European Central Bank significantly reduces the tax multiplier of funds. It's over, President. To the extent that the effects of the pandemic are lagging behind, the focus should not only be on recovering the COVID crisis; we must also work with rigour, transparency and coordination to deal with the unpleasant consequences of the energy, inflation and rising interest rates. We, of course, my parliamentary group, will work to speed up and accelerate the implementation of funds to truly transform our economy by investing in good projects that increase quality employment and productivity. Let us make a virtue among all of us of our need. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u188	Good morning. What you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, propose to us in your motion is something perfectly normal, from our point of view, and if things were done well it should not be necessary to ask for it, to put it on the table or to be the subject of a debate because I believe that we will all agree that good execution, transparency and accountability - it is more, especially when money is not yours and is going to mortgage future generations - is essential. But it must always be, it must not be only with the funds of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Mechanism. You are criticizing that co-governance is not being fulfilled, that the autonomous communities have not been counted on. And this puzzles me. I am very surprised that the PP defends decentralization because it is not what we are, unfortunately, accustomed to. I don't know if it's a sincere defense or an opportunistic defense. Both Together and the Generalitat as a whole we have denounced, from the very beginning, that the governance model of the Royal Decree Law 36/2020 is not the right one. By the way, it has been in a period of amendments for more than a year. We have also reported that the centralization that applies to the autonomous communities is not applied internally because there is a disparity of criteria in each ministry and in each call. And also that the autonomous communities cannot have a merely witness role and be simple executors. However, expenditure must be borne in mind, because it is the communities that know the productive model of their territory best: subsidiarity, because being the communities directly involved would reduce bureaucracy and gain in speed and agility, something that is essential. Catalonia identified, at the time, 542 projects involving a large number of companies, especially SMEs, which had to translate into 27 PERTE, but was accused by the Government of being an electoralist. Well, the question is, isn't the centralized program that the government has ended up adopting? According to the advisor, the pace of implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and the lack of decision-making capacity of the autonomous communities on the Next Generation limit the impact on the Catalan economy. It has been said that assigning and committing, ladies and gentlemen, is different to executing. Implementation does have a real impact on the economy. We must not forget the endemic low absorption rate in Spain. This is a problem added to the absorption of funds derived from the Transformation and Resilience Mechanism. With this mechanism Spain is late. That's true, but it's not uncommon, it's common because, look, in the 2014-2020 structural funds Spain was the least absorbed country in the European Union: 53%. This under both PSOE and PP governments. Therefore, it is not an unusual practice, unfortunately, but it is customary. Criticizing the low execution now, which is true, seems opportunistic to us and seems to us to have no memory. The Court of Auditors itself has pointed out that countries with low absorption rates will have much more problems absorbing the new funds because they will have to execute a large amount of money in a very short time. If to this, to this low absorption and execution, we add the centralized model chosen by Spain, we face the perfect storm so that Spain is a net contributor and not a beneficiary, because it will have to return amounts that well planned would really contribute to changing the productive model and to increasing the growth of the economy. As you know, the Next Generation must serve not to extend the life of the current productive model, but must be a revulsive of this productive model. You are right in what you propose, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, but it seems opportunistic to us and that it forgets the past of which you are also participants. That is why we cannot support him. In the time I have left, I follow the example of the Minister of Justice who, in the inquiry made to him by Esquerra, has made it clear that the subject of the motion was whether Spain will comply with the opinions of international bodies and has mentioned some other subject. I would ask the minister when the scholarships she mentioned will actually be handed over? What benefits of rollies are you talking about when two days ago the system fell and collapsed the country? He also said that Catalonia will have received Next Generation funds. Yes, but he can only execute what the Government dictates, he cannot decide for himself. If that is, as the minister said, looking at the Catalans, I am very sorry to say it, but we do not share her opinion at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Master Moliner.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u190	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Your Honor. Mr Elorriaga, with all due respect, will allow me to say that I am a little reckless, at least this motion that you bring us here today; more than anything because, I insist, with all due respect, it seems to me that you only throw up complaints without any foundation. The reality here is that it seems that its only intention is to create confusion within society and, unfortunately, without providing any concrete measure, beyond some generality that is and works everywhere and that, of course, it seems unquestionable that this is also the will of the Government. With regard to information that may or may not be available...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u191	Excuse me, ma'am Master, there are hearing problems, maybe you could try to adjust the microphone a little more.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u192	Better now?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u193	Much better, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u194	Thank you. As I said to you, it seems - I do not know if there is any doubt or in what way, I believe not - as if Minister Nadia Calviño, the Vice-President, had not appeared on the Commission on the 7th in order to explain, in particular, the rise in prices, but also with regard to European funds. I would therefore like to know whether there is any problem with which they do not receive the information, because of course this has happened. It is no secret that our parliamentary group is always committed to this capacity, not only to transparency, but also to the ability to reach out to small and medium-sized enterprises, to self-employed women and, of course, to all social economy entities. On the other hand, I think it is important to remember that we must not forget that autonomous communities and local entities too - as has been said here - are guarantors of all these measures and executions having a direct and real impact within the economy. It seems to me that you are largely obviating all this, moreover, I would dare to describe as half-truth - I do not know if I say directly false - the fact that it has not been directly counted on autonomous communities or local entities, even a letter has recently been sent to the various presidents of the autonomous communities, parliamentary groups and social actors for this purpose. But there is one issue that seems to me to be obviating, as if there were no such great pink elephant, and it is true that the Government must make an effort to ensure that the funds are properly implemented and, moreover, that the public administrations must have the capacity to manage it in the most appropriate way, which is the will - I understand - of everyone here. But we must also not forget that these capacities were necessarily undermined by the cutback policies implemented by the Government of Mariano Rajoy during the worst years of the financial crisis. And allow me, please, to stop a little further on this point, because it seems undeniable that proper budget implementation has essentially to do with adequate staffing in public administrations, and its group was precisely the one that did the highest damage from the point of view of public employment that could be imagined. In this regard, we are talking about the fact that between 2008 and 2020 the state public administration has lost 51 963 personnel, 9.13 %. However, I would like to make a clarification. If we continue at this rate - and very unfortunately I could refer to practically the whole of this plenary, with the exception of some groups, including mine - it takes us thirty-six years to reach the levels of public employment we were in in 2008. We cannot therefore demand efficiency in the management of European funds or in the granting of social aid, speed in the management of ERTs or rapid response in certain preventive policies - as we have seen so recently in the field of public health - if we do not replenish at a higher rate all these state staffs that were absolutely dismantled by your party. We detailed even a little more. Within the General Administration of the State, ministries have lost a third of the workforce; Social Security, more than 21%, and the Tax Agency - which is an absolute scandal - 8%. Very specifically, I will focus on the Tax Agency. We are talking about a 7.56% reduction, while large fraudsters are specializing in circumventing taxes. We still do not provide this administration with the troops that really belong to it, because that is how we fight tax fraud, with sufficient staff. I would not like to think that your party would not agree with a measure like this - even though the facts do not support them - to deal with all those criminals who are being professionalized in certain tax amnesties and which we will not point out, but probably have more room within some parties than others. I would not like to end without making it clear that we are faced with an absolutely devastating picture, even with the latest offers of public employment, because 17.9% of public employees are over sixty years old; 72.57, between 40 and 59 years old, and only 9.5, less than 40 years old. In other words, 51.2% of the total staff retired in 10 years. It seems to me that we need to reflect on this and, of course, because it is absolutely incoherent, we will vote against this motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Master. For the Socialist Group, Mr Durán Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u196	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am very sorry that the holidays have not served them to reflect, to come in another spirit, in another spirit to Congress, and that you remain the same ashes and aggravation as usual, that you remain the destructive opposition that this country does not deserve. And please don't lie. You have always been against European funds, so you have tried to boycott them in Brussels. By the way, they often provoked Bochorno by criticising Spain in Europe. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen! And since they have failed to do so, they continue to bring initiatives to entangle. They lie when they criticize that there has been a lack of transparency and opacity. But how can you say that when you know perfectly well that the government has appeared countless times in this House to explain the European funds, when since Moncloa a website and tools have been enabled so that citizens, self-employed people and SMEs can access all the information. Moreover, as you well know, the calls for competitions and grants made by the public administration are regulated by law and also controlled and audited by the General Intervention of the State; indeed, a very well-valued system in Europe. Therefore, the whole process is completely guaranteed. They also lie when they say that they have not counted on the autonomous communities or that these funds have been given to related communities. They lie, because more than a hundred sectoral conferences have been held to advance co-governance with the autonomous communities, and the communities that have received the most funds have been Andalusia, Catalonia and Madrid. Therefore, they lie when they say that they have been arbitrary criteria. The reality is that these European funds are a success. Expenditures for investment worth more than €36 billion have been authorized and more than €18 billion have been transferred to the autonomous communities to finance projects within their competencies, such as housing, self-consumption, education and digitisation. [[Applauds]] There are also measures designed to enable citizens and our businesses to adapt to the climate and energy challenges we are facing, supporting important sectors such as tourism, social protection, health, employment and the scientific sector. Recovery plans are a historic opportunity for our country's economy. Let me put you, who claim to be good managers of the economy, in front of your mirror. I recall that while massive cuts in social policies were being made by the People's Party, they argued that the best social policy was employment. Well, with the People's Party government the unemployment rate reached 27%; with Pedro Sánchez, today we have an unemployment rate of 12%. With the PP the dismissal was reduced and we arrived at levels of temporality never seen before; with the Socialist President the ERTE have been created to give coverage to the companies and that it does not fire the workers and, thanks to the labor reform, more than a million jobs have been created indefinite. With the PP, in six years, the minimum wage was raised to 94 euros; with Pedro Sánchez, in four years, it has risen to 265 euros. [[Applauds]] With the right, child poverty became a serious problem in our country; with the left, minimum living income has been approved, mainly for families with minor children in their care. In short, when the left governs, there is more economic growth, more employment generation and more redistribution of wealth. Do you not realize, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that your account of good economic managers is built on the basis of a fallacy? It is false, just as it is false that the new PP has brought about some change. You, with Feijóo at the front, are still the same as usual. They have voted no, for example, to 200 euros for self-employed and unemployed workers; they have voted no to the 400 euros scholarships for students; they have voted no to the interprofessional minimum wage; no, to the rise of pensions; no, to free transport. Stop boycotting and plotting and inventing problems that don't exist. Put yourself together with this government for once to work here and in Europe to move this country forward in uncertain times. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Durán. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE END OF THE VIADUCTO DE O CASTRO IN A-6. [[Lord KANDAMIL KINGDOM]] [[File number 173/000165]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u198	We continue with the last item on today's agenda, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil, into the collapse of the O Castro viaduct in the A6. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u199	Thank you, Madam President. As is known, on June 7, a section of the O Castro viaduct near Pedrafita do Cebreiro collapsed in a strept way, after a year closed to traffic for the damage detected, waiting for repairs. Following the collapse, the twin viaduct has also been closed for an indeterminate period of time to check that there are no faults in the track and similar pillars. The closure of this channel of communication produced a real collapse in communications between Galicia and the rest of the State, especially in communications with the neighbouring region of El Bierzo, this month and especially this summer. This undoubtedly highlights the situation of road communications in our country, in Galicia, which have always been an outstanding subject for the various governments of the State. Infrastructures are late, decades late in many cases, when they arrive, but now we are also faced with poor works, which only twenty years after its inauguration collapse. The most surprising thing is the obscurantism surrounding this incident. On behalf of the BNG, I called the Minister of Transport on 29 June. It essentially called for four questions which we are bringing back here today: firstly, the carrying out of an inspection or audit of the various A6 viaducts, bridges and tunnels, especially those carried out in the same period as the collapse and under the same conditions or tender, in order to ensure the correct state of the infrastructure, as well as the early detection of possible deficiencies, so that they can be corrected without endangering the safety of the users; secondly, that they make public all the information they had on the initial construction of the collapsed section - award process, contracting companies, deadlines for execution and delivery, etc. - as well as on the process of detection of the damage and the project and the award of the repair works thereof, with the aim of knowing the ultimate causes of the collapse; thirdly, that they carry out the precise actions to investigate and claim the relevant responsibilities to which might take place in the case of detection of any type of the damage, with the aim of knowing the damage caused by the collapse; and thirdly, that they would carry out the necessary actions to investigate and to ensure that the execution of the construction work is carried out safely. [[The Lord]] Basically, the minister's answer was that it was being studied and that this information would be given at the time it was to be given. Well, more than two months after this inquiry and three months after the collapse of O Castro's viaduct, the total mutism of the ministry continues. There was no information on the state of the infrastructure, nor on the causes of the collapse or possible responsibilities. We know that the companies that executed the viaduct - FCC and ACS - are strong, have a lot of economic power and, no doubt, also political, in the form of capacity of pressure and influence, but - I insist - the Galicians and Galicians, the citizens of the state have a right to know. Nor was the issue of traffic alternatives properly resolved while the viaduct remains closed in both directions of circulation, and the proof of this is that this summer constant congestion and bottling occurred in Pedrafita do Cebreiro. This is very negatively affecting Galicia, its population, but also its economic sectors, which see its costs and difficulties growing, and which means losing competitiveness in our companies. It is an unsustainable situation and we therefore once again call for adequate road solutions urgently, beyond announcements such as those recently made that have not just been implemented. We therefore believe that this motion by the BNG must be approved, because it cannot normally be accepted that an infrastructure of only twenty years old should collapse and that no explanation should be given. It is necessary to investigate the causes, to clear the corresponding responsibilities and to give complete information to the citizenry, because it is not logical that, in the hypothesis that this responsibility was in poor or inadequate execution, the reparation is being paid with public money, that is to say, of all of us; because we have the right to know whether we are travelling through safe infrastructures, especially in the light of the other A6 viaducts, but also on the Rías Baixas motorway, which used the same constructive system, and because we want to have adequate and effective alternatives to circulation at the same time as precise deadlines for the safe reopening of the twin viaduct and the reconstruction of the collapse. We continue to demand that all available information be made public, because Galician citizens of El Bierzo and the entire State are entitled, as I said, to truthful and complete information on what has happened, that is to say, to everything that unfortunately has not yet been done by this Government. Once again the Galego Nationalist Block, from this rostrum, claims to comply with Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Calvo Liste spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Signore Regó, the A6 motorway connects Madrid - Spain - with La Coruña - Spain -. [[Applauds]] It also travels important localities, such as Medina del Campo, Tordesillas, Benavente, La Bañeza, Astorga, Ponferrada, Villafranca del Bierzo, Piedrafita, Lugo and Betanzos, all also in Spain. [[Applauds]] I mean, Mr Rego, it doesn't connect, as you say, Galicia with the Peninsula, as if there was the Strait of Gibraltar, by the way, also Spanish. [[Applauds]] This is just in your imagination, another separatist dream. Wake up, Galicia is Spain. [[Applauds]] Well, on the A6 or northwest highway on June 7th, one of the thirteen vanes of the Castro viaduct, 585 meters long, collapsed in the municipality of Vega de Valcarce, the last village of El Bierzo in León. It has been closed to traffic since 2021 when it was rehabilitated after an inspection. On 16 June, a second collapse occurred, diverting traffic through the N-VI, resulting in damage to all populations and users of this route, logically increasing the risk of an accident. While investigating the causes of collapse - for which VOX already asked the government in the following days - and, as a result, the responsibilities are clarified, the only fact true today is the obvious lack of maintenance of our infrastructures and, in this case, of a very important one in the heart of the Spanish interior, of rural Spain, which is nothing other than Spain abandoned by you and by you, which are more to announce infrastructures and inaugurate them than to ensure their conservation. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing out the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Applause]] But, of course, we already know where the electoral revenue is, as Mr Rego now claims with this motion. The minister - absent - will say that it is invested in forecasting and maintenance and that there are the budgets, but the truth is that an important viaduct has collapsed with less than twenty-five years of age, something unprecedented. And it is that, according to experts, it is invested four times less than necessary to have the highways in optimum condition. It is this disaster that would have been avoided with foresight and resources. We need to invest effectively and in what is important. VOX has already told you that you do not know how to invest effectively because you do not know how to budget, nor do you know how to invest in what is important because ideological sales prevent you from doing so. In Spain we have very good professionals, so I hope that the multidisciplinary team of technicians who are working on it will not be like the committees of experts to which this Government is accustomed. The problem, once again, is the Government. You prefer to design a plan to charge tolls to all users rather than design one for effective maintenance and maintenance, guaranteeing and extending their service life. [[Applauds]] Do the Spanish no longer pay with their increasingly high taxes, maintenance in infrastructure? Don't you issue public debt for that? What is actually what should be intended for maintenance or, rather, what is it spent on? Either we invest in birth, in the rural world, in health, in education, in defense, in maintaining infrastructure, or we invest in ideology, in limiting freedoms, in raising taxes, in making life impossible for the Spaniards, in developing globalist agendas, ultimately losing sovereignty in all areas. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 and 16 June we witnessed the collapse of the Castro viaduct. Very soon, thanks to VOX, we will also witness the collapse of this evil government. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u202	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u203	Thank you, President. This motion will allow a humble Member of Lugo to recall the situation in which our province is in relation to infrastructure, not only road infrastructure, but also railway infrastructure. Today we do not have adequate rail communication with the high speed line, because neither is it addressed the improvement of the minimum installation essential with variants that allow to shorten the time of transfer between Lugo and Ourense nor authorize new frequencies, despite having asked in this Chamber, to link with the trains that arrive from Ourense to the capital of Spain. What about the A-54 motorway, between Lugo and Santiago, which is not going to comply with the commitments made by this Government in terms of the deadlines for the start-up, or the already non-existent forecasts for the A-56, between Ourense and Lugo, and the A-76, between Ourense and Ponferrada. By La Mariña nothing is done, despite what we have just heard from the Minister of Industry, except to propitiate the danger and the lack of continuity of the industries resident there. I don't even talk to them about road maintenance. To all this brief and summarized list, we now add the collapse and cut-off of traffic through Galicia's main access and exit route to the plateau, such as the A-6, with an average of 10,000 vehicles per day, most of them trucks, heavy vehicles and even special transport. The solution that has been offered to us so far? Wait year and a half for the construction of a new viaduct and, meanwhile, patches, as the alternative routes that force all traffic, including heavy and special ones, to move through the town of Pedrafita do Cebreiro. Here it has just been remembered that this summer occurred until collapses that I will mattize: three kilometers of journey, duration: three hours; whole families on the shore under a sun that everyone knows there was this summer in Galicia; clutches of dozens of burnt and broken cars, therefore, preventing circulation. A real collapse. This is not acceptable. Today the Ministry of Transport still does not give an explanation and, despite this, the Xunta of Galicia requested the creation of a working group, which was called a follow-up table on the provisional solution and reconstruction of the viaduct, a commitment that Mr Sánchez acquires with President Rueda last July in Moncloa, and nothing at all. Other tables on the other end of Spain seem to be more priority, even if only for the photo. But Galicia continued to work, and sent to the Ministry of Transport solutions such as the construction of variants that would prevent the passage through the town of Piedrafita in both directions; but nothing, they were not accepted. [[shows a photograph]] We therefore believe that priority should be given to this, since this is a national problem. Here we have talked about economic damage; I would add the possible relocation of companies such as wind turbines, which are building shovels and passing through that locality. The motion consists of four points. I think he looks more at the past than at the future. She is more committed to investigating and finding responsibilities in governments over twenty years ago than to providing solutions. And I would say to him that it is very good for us to investigate all the irregularities that could have been committed, but also those of the works that were being carried out at this time by emergency for more than 26 million euros. We will investigate all possible irregularities; transparency to the fullest. Our amendment goes in that direction, to ensure adequate road alternatives, but especially to take into account those provided by the Xunta de Galicia. Probably, I think I will not be wrong, the Socialist spokesman will tell us now that they are already working and that in a few days a new diversion will be opened, but already advance them that this new deviation does not coincide at all with any of these options studied by competent technicians and that it will only serve to avoid the passage through the town of Piedrafita in the direction of Madrid, but not in the direction towards Galicia, which will cause that, with the arrival of the frosts or the snows, the collapse is not by a viaduct, but because the trucks are crossed in that ramp that they intend to build. I made that trip in my car yesterday. It was raining and there were difficulties. I don't want to imagine what's going to happen with the arrival of winter. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this will serve to draw attention to the needs that this Government is not meeting in the province of Lugo or Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u204	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Cerqueiro González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u205	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Don Joaquin, I wasn't going to tell you about the detour, I wasn't going to tell you about the detour. Those of us who usually pass through the A-6 as we pass through Los Ancares know that weather conditions are sometimes extremely adverse: dense fogs, heavy storms, frost, snow. Let me tell you that, as a user of that route, I have met many times in the midst of storms - many times, I have many kilometers - and I have a rare feeling of disbelief and sometimes vertigo for what might have happened and because, indeed, in moments of agony leading you cling to the security of the infrastructures. This event has been serious, but - I also tell you - exceptional, and should not undermine the confidence of drivers in our road network. Therefore, we must be cautious in our manifestations. We're willing to reach agreements with you, you know that. We are introducing these amendments as a technical improvement to the points of resolution. We have no problem with continuing inspections of bridges similar to O Castro's viaducts, but it is very important that citizens know that this monitoring is already being done. In fact, thanks to the inspections carried out, the Ministry's technicians had anticipated and no personal misfortune had to be regretted. We also agree with, on the basis of what is laid down in existing legislation, to make public the tendering and award of works for the repair and reconstruction of the same. All you have to do is go to the BOE for information, and remember that the award process was published in the Official State Gazette of 26 June 1997, when President José María Aznar and Minister of Fomento Mr Álvarez Cascos, again it seems that Mr Feijóo's ally in politics. Of course, we will continue our actions to investigate and claim responsibility if negligent construction is detected. Having said that, it is not wise to question the whole system. Alarmism cannot be created in society, ladies and gentlemen, nor can it be obscurantism, lack of information, lack of agility or disinterest. You cannot talk about disinterest when you have managed to open alternative routes in a very reasonable time and always giving priority to security, despite your criticism and haste. You, the PP, use different measuring rods according to the management of either the Xunta of Galicia or the State, because it is you, lords of the PP, who applaud the Xunta when it announces, as if it were a whole feat, that it will take year and a half to repair the autonomous road of Folgoso do Courel; year and a half. And how long did it take them to create an alternative route? Five months. If you want to have some credibility try, at least, to manage with agility and efficiency the Xunta of Galicia. Mr Rego, I would like you to acknowledge the progress made by the Government of Pedro Sánchez in infrastructure in the province of Lugo and the rest of Galicia. The Ministry of Infrastructure is investing in the province of Lugo more than 500 million euros in railway works, works that you well know were blocked by the People's Party during its years of government with the complicit silence of Mr Feijoo. That is Mr. Feijóo's moderation: neither bread nor water for a province ruled by a progressive majority. [[Applauds]] But, Mr Rego, I also have to say that I would have liked you to have voted on those budgets that bring investment to Galicia. We are trying to move forward and improve what has not been done in the seven years of Rajoy's government. It just seems like a lie to me, and you know I have great respect for you, that I talk like that when you guys didn't do anything. I see I'm running out of time. If I want to give, President, a well-deserved recognition to all the neighbours of Piedrafita and Vega de Valcarce, and to their mayor and mayor, Don José Luis Raposo Magdalena and Dona María Luisa González Santín, for their patience with the discomforts they are suffering. I just want to tell you that the government is working and will continue to move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is a motion that puts all its emphasis on the road infrastructure of Galicia and, as a member of the neighbouring Asturias, I want to share in solidarity the abandonment both in the development of the projects that the coalition government Socialist Party and We can incorporate with pyrrhic drop-outs in the General Budgets of the State as well as in the maintenance of the roads that depend on the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. In this respect I have had the opportunity to question and ask in this Chamber the two ministers in the field of the different governments of Pedro Sánchez, but, after more than four years of management, the panorama is very discouraging for the north-west peninsula, and not only in road matters, but also in the railways, as has been recalled, and in the harbours, with particular reference to the suspended motorway of the sea leaving from El Musel. Mr Rego has referred to different road events on the A-6 motorway which reveal more than reasonable doubts about the implementation of conservation tasks. Allow me to refer to the drama of the Asturians in the west of the region, bordering Castile and León and Galicia, isolated by the inability of socialist governments, both from the state and from the autonomous community, and even dragged into the macabre lottery of the Argayos on roads worthy of that name and of these times. [[applause]] It is enough to remember the terrible detachment on a vehicle in the Corridor Narcea, near the town of Soto de la Barca, in Tineo, which cost a person's life in November last year. The case of the construction of the A-66 motorway between Oviedo and La Espina, promoted and initiated at the beginning of the century by a government of the People's Party, that of José María Aznar precisely, is a reflection of how the socialist inefficiency condemns tens of thousands of Asturians to live with infrastructures of past times and, consequently, to be relegated both in the development of their daily activity and in the production of their farms and in the competitiveness of their enterprises, many of them small. In 2010, the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero paralyzed the construction of the A-66, left the pilasters of the viaduct over the Narcea River as a colossal monument to the abandonment and had to be once again a Government of the People's Party, in this case Mariano Rajoy, who will resume the works, put in service the section between Doriga and Cornellana, including the viaduct, and move towards the next section, which is what remains unopened today and which is carried out with the conspicuous trompicons that characterize the efforts of the socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, in his speech, Mr Rego called for security in the road infrastructure and agility in its implementation to be applied in Galicia. It should be noted that in Asturias the neighbours of the south-west have been carrying out mobilizations and demonstrations of protest both for the palmarious insecurity of the roads and for the forgetfulness of the administrations to modernize the road network, to eliminate the dangers and to deal diligently with the resolution of incidents, such as the inexplicable sinking of the bridge of La Barroso, national road N-634, in Salas, which remained cut off almost a year and which forced the diversion of traffic by infamous roads. By the way, the government delegate, more democratic than she, is recriminating the neighborhood protests. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the various points raised by the operative part of this initiative by the Gallego Nationalist Block, I agree that the Government must inexcusably comply with its obligations to audit and detect deficiencies in bridges, viaducts, pilasters, tunnels and roads which fall within its competence. Identifying constructive pathologies and signs of problems in any infrastructure is a matter of top priority to correct anomalies and eliminate elements that may affect user safety. Also, in view of the events in A-6, the obscurantism of the Government to make public reports, data and, ultimately, everything relating to the construction of the collapsed section, as well as to the detection of damage and administrative details relating to the repair works, is inexplicable. On the other hand, the investigation and, where appropriate, the claim of constructive negligence are more than relevant. Finally, it is essential to offer alternatives to the A6 cut so that users of the transport system are not penalized for their daily activity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u208	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Plego, I don't want to think about what the media will say tomorrow when we announce that we will support almost one hundred percent of your motion, and now I will explain to you the nuances of the almost. Because, of course, it is good that a nationalist party, which also claims sovereignty for its territory, is concerned about a state-wide infrastructure, in addition to an incident - the most serious of public engineering that has occurred in the history of this country - in the municipal term of Vega deValcarce, in León and not in Galicia. We recognize that merit and, of course, we are happy about it because it is concerned about a state infrastructure for an incident elsewhere. Man, we even think that both the People's Party and the VOX Party, which, since the autonomous government of Castile and León - the new autonomous government of Castile and León - have not been concerned at all and have not said a word on this subject, despite having occurred in their territory, have come today to amend their motion. Obviously, what is true is that an infrastructure like the A6, a viaduct like the A-6, cannot at all collapse. In twenty years since its construction, since its inauguration in 2001, it is impossible that the infrastructure has been spent in such a way to reach the consequences that we know of this summer, from the collapse of several boards of this viaduct, until in the end it had to be demolished the only one that remained standing and have to begin the reconstruction of that infrastructure work. [[The lady]] It must also be recognized that this is an infrastructure which, as early as 2003, was a report which was praised and endorsed by the Commission for its great technical complexity, saying that a great deal of material savings had been achieved by the innovative technical solutions adopted, despite which, at the time, it was already the viaduct section of a more expensive infrastructure in the history of this country. What do regular inspections have to be carried out to detect such problems? Of course, a year ago the incident had been inspected and a problem had been detected with the steel wiring of that viaduct, which led precisely to the closure of one of the senses of the viaduct to initiate emergency repairs that curiously or surprisingly have ended in the collapse of the viaduct. Indeed, we know very little about what has happened and the causes, because the obscurantism on the part of the government delegate in Galicia - despite having occurred in León - is quite surprising and it is quite curious that we have no more news. We do not know whether there has been a problem in the wiring repair work that has been done for a year. We do not know whether this was a problem of design and construction of the original viaduct itself. We do not know whether, as has also been announced, it could have been a land movement. We should all agree that until the last consequences should be investigated what has happened on this viaduct, because it is also important that the correct protocols be considered to carry out all these kinds of inspections on all state-wide infrastructures in Spain. The only thing that we may not agree with you so much is what I believe is - or we read out lines - the only reason and end of your motion, despite which we are not at all going to raise something that is not our affirmative vote on your initiative. As I say, that only reason that appears to be underlying his motion is to investigate only if the responsibilities are to be given in certain companies that they built or in certain governments that at the time approved the tender and hired that work. What we want is the truth, the absolute truth, and that anyone knows everything, because we have known it by the press and it is surprising that those who were directors of the works twenty years ago turn out to be engineers today in the demarcation of Galician roads. We are therefore concerned that the investigation does not have all the objectivity, impartiality and independence it must have. This is something that the Government, this Government, of course, is not interested in, is not interested in having independent oversight and control bodies. Unfortunately, that is something that its partners - and among them the BNG - are giving to this government. He wants to be a government he can't control and you're partly giving it to him. Therefore, my question is whether you are really willing to have that investigation come to the ultimate conclusion, to know everything that has happened, even if it is not only for a few companies or only for a few governments. I believe that the important thing, as we have demonstrated from Citizens, is that we are all so that we can get to know what has happened, whoever is responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u210	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u211	Good afternoon, now. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are bringing to this House today a motion resulting from an inquiry which I believe is difficult to oppose, because I believe that all the citizens of the State, but fundamentally all Galicians and Galicians, when we hear what was happening on the O Castro viaduct in the A-6, and above all I believe that all public representatives, beyond the exercise of proper containment, what we responsibly demand and will continue to demand is, first of all, proper investigation and full transparency on the consequences and conclusions of that investigation. Secondly, to know exactly what are the causes of the cracking and subsequent collapse of this infrastructure and, if necessary, to deepen its responsibilities. Thirdly and lastly, of course, all those decisions and interventions directly aimed at remedying the problem in the infrastructure and mitigating, in the time it takes, the consequences for the citizens, whether they are those who usually use this infrastructure, or those who use it sporadically, must continue to be taken with all speed - because they are being taken. As has already been said, this infrastructure is Galicia's main route of connection to the plateau, and not only that, but it is a fundamental route of connection between different regions and areas of Galicia. Beyond the controversial situation, I think it is worth remembering and putting on the table, above all to make it clear to the citizenry and not to fall into irresponsible alarms, which fortunately the technicians of the Administration have acted preventively. The viaduct affected closed to traffic - as you know - a year earlier, in the year 2021, when the inspections carried out indicated the deterioration in the infrastructure. Obviously, that is something that must give us confidence and security and that must also put on the table that in this way was neutralized that more important problems could have happened, beyond the gravest of the situation. After these, work has been started to ensure safety and studies to determine the causes of the accident and, in addition, improvements have been made in the alternative routes and new ones have been launched to minimise costs in time and money for users. It is true, however, that, in our view, more transparency is needed and that light and tachographs are needed as the best way for the Administration to combat the possible doubts and uncertainties that users and citizens may have from now on in that infrastructure or in other similar infrastructures or sections. It takes transparency to know everything about the companies that have carried out the infrastructure as well as something fundamental, looking at the short and medium term, which is transparency on the planning and the definitive timetable for the complete standardization of the infrastructure and the traffic. I think that's where we all agree. I must also say that I very much agree with Mr Cerqueiro's statement. I would also agree with Mr García, or I might be, that, in addition to omitting his party, the People's Party, which spent many years in the government of the State and which has claimed part of these infrastructures, and that its party has also been ruling in Galicia. Without going further, Mr García Díez was also mayor of the province of Lugo and, therefore, some responsibility will also have the People's Party in the controversial situation of all infrastructures in the province of Lugo. In any case, and as a conclusion, I believe that we must resolve this situation, in addition to providing transparency and finding the right responsibilities in this matter. This situation or situation should lead us to reflect on the transport model. I think it is good to highlight also what is being done at the level of transport, particularly in rail transport, Galicia's connection with the State and the connection between Galicia by the Government of the State. We are talking about the fact that in Galicia more than 28,000 free allowances have been issued, 85% of Renfe's users have allowances and up to 14,000 free places have also been strengthened from the Ourense-A Coruña line. In short, I believe that in a context such as this one of serious infringement and also of combating climate change and, therefore, the consumption of fossil fuels, every effort in terms of public and collective rail transport is more than positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Mr Rego, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u213	We're talking for a transactional we hope to have soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-14-CD220914.u214	All right. Thank you so much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good afternoon, everyone. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
