ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take a seat and keep quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Please, keep quiet. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions addressed to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u2	Thank you, President. With her coming. Your Honor, we're asking you how the economy looks. Many of us believe that the Government is going wrong and its economic management is an absolute failure. Many people believe this, Your Honor, because history is repeating itself and it is again a socialist government that is ruining Spain and raising taxes and indebting us all with more than 200 million euros a day. Yes, your government is ruining the country and everyone knows it, Your Honor. Zapatero saw green outbreaks and what he left was a slab of red numbers. You didn't see inflation coming and we're in two figures, Your Honor. The same story is repeated; the error is not recognized, it is not acted upon, the opposition is scolded, it is not heard and, in short, a mistrust is generated that is very bad for the economy, with the addition that populist and communist policies on their arrival in the government impose taxes more and others are invented. Never in such a short time, Your Honor, did a government create such legal uncertainty and such an adverse climate for investment. Are you going to rectify or are you going to stay in bad politics? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u3	I give the floor to the first Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u4	Thank you, President. We are at a time of enormous uncertainty, a very complex time from an international point of view, but even now the Spanish economy continues to grow strongly, and I do not say so, all national and international bodies say so. The INE has recently confirmed that last year we grew by 5.5% and that in the first part of the year the annual growth rate of GDP has been above 6.5% and this week the OECD has revised upwards the forecast of economic growth for our country. It is clear that the economic policy of the Government, which we have been following for four years and three months, is the right one not only to respond to the urgent, but also to respond to the important, so that our country will continue to grow strongly now and in the future. Faced with this, ladies and gentlemen, what are your proposals? I am surprised that you speak of trust and populism. This very week we are seeing the consequences of the economic policy advocated by the People's Party in the UK Government, and I do not have to give much detail because we are all able to see how it is leading the country not to a pair or drift, but to disaster. [[Applauds]] These are their prescriptions, gentlemen of the People's Party, an irresponsible and destructive fiscal policy that dismantles the welfare state. In that policy, Your Honor, you won't find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u5	Mr Carlos Rojas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u6	Your Honor, what are our proposals? I don't know, ask Mr. Ximo Puig, maybe he'll find the answer. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Your Honor, you have a story, but you're wrong again. Your Honor, your management is a failure, you already know your data. How do you come here to talk about international bodies? I've brought him prepared, I'll tell him what the international agencies say. [[Shows a press clipping of El Mundo newspaper]] Report of the Court of Auditors of the European Union: Europe's worst government implementing European funds. [[Shows a press clipping of La Razón newspaper]] Another fact: Spain leads the rise of fiscal pressure in the OECD, Your Honor, which revises growth to 1.5% by 2023. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u8	Another fact, Your Honor: Eurostat reports that economic recovery is the worst in Europe. [[showing a press clipping of the ABC newspaper]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the worst in Europe. [[Laughs.-Speaks.-Applause.]] And a very discouraging fact : The unemployment rate, Your Honor - and this is not to laugh - is the highest in the European Union. [[showing a press clipping of the ABC newspaper]] [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Yeah, double the average. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u10	And these are the invoices of all Spaniards, who climb up to 35% in electricity and in the shopping basket. [[showing a document]] This is not to make a joke, Your Honor, and you should come here to assume responsibilities and explain to us why the government no longer deflates the IRPF, as we have asked you, or VAT on commodities. Your Honor, focus and get to work for our country. Stop inventing stories, stop inventing stories. They need to speak clearly to the Spanish and the economic sectors in order to start already to generate confidence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u12	Thank you, President. When they lost the government four years and three months ago they started, week after week, to say the same thing: Spain goes wrong, Spain is the worst, Spain is a disaster. It is terrible that they have that vision of our country, but it is already the peak that they say it in the week when the OECD has revised the growth forecast for this year upwards to 4.4%. [[Greetings.- Mr. Rojas García: For the next one!]] No green outbreaks; it's a strong growth, as the growth and recovery of last year were strong. [[Applauds]] Secondly, it is already the culmination of your talk of confidence in the week when the European Central Bank, the OECD and even the International Monetary Fund have had to tell the United Kingdom Government to reverse and change the economic policy that the People's Party is proposing because it is depreciating the pound, it is sinking the stock exchanges and it is precisely international investors that do not trust those who have an economic policy recipe like theirs, let alone in a context of rising interest rates. But, Your Honor, what is behind all these proposals and all these questions is very clear: you want to dismantle the welfare state and there you will not find us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u13	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHY IS THE ONLY COUNTRY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION whose economy has not recovered even its level before PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/001040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u14	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group, to the first Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, I understand that there are people who find it difficult to understand the out-of-game, but I do not understand that there are people who find it difficult to understand the classification of a table. I say this because last week I tried to explain a basic concept and you come and repeat exactly the same thing to tell us about the solidity and growth of the Spanish economy. If you had sunk the Spanish economy 50 % and the following year had grown another 50 %, we would be 25 % below. It's just that you understand this until the man who roasted the butter. Don't go on with the same thing. The data we knew last week confirm that Spain's GDP in the second quarter of the year - the last one we have - is 2.2% below the pre-pandemic level, Minister. Do not try to deceive either this House or the Spanish. All countries in the eurozone have regained their level of gross domestic product minus Spain, all of them. That means that we are the last, in line, minister; that is understood by everyone. Clearly, the instability of this government, the permanent shambles of its components, the vavenes that you are giving are the causes of this crisis. Otherwise, why is Spain the only country in the eurozone that has not yet regained the pre-crisis level? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u16	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u17	Thank you. The truth is that this is like an echo, it's an echo chamber, because the PP says one thing and you repeat it exactly the same and they also have since the pandemic started with the same baton, that if we're the last, we're the worst. The Spanish economy had a very deep fall as a result of the COVID virus; we had the most intense fall of the countries of the European Union due to the weight of the tourism sector, but we are also having a very strong recovery, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. We have more than twenty million people affiliated with Social Security; we have less than three million people in unemployment; we have a record of very few young people in unemployment and we have managed to reduce those young people who are neither studying nor working. These are opportunities and opportunities for the future for young people and families in our country, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. In spite of its weight, the Spanish economy is growing intensely. However, we are in a very complex international context. He'll tell me, "It's just that he mentions Putin's war again. But if every day this conflict is determining the evolution of energy prices, the supply of gas in northern Europe and what monetary policy international bodies are carrying out! Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you are an economist, you know perfectly well the relationship between war and the economic situation and yet the Spanish economy has many more strengths than in the past to confront it. And you know why? For the policy that this Government has followed for four years and three months. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u18	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u19	You tell us, Your Honor, that we mention the war of Putin. No, it is you who welcome a triangle, which is: Franco and the far right, the virus and Putin; always the same. The Putin War, I say, will affect everyone, or will it affect only Spain, which is the country that is - together with Portugal - further away from Ukraine? Will it be that, if it affects everyone and we go the last, something has done wrong this government, Minister, for something that is going on will be your responsibility. It is that there are two very serious problems here that have to do with this Government. First, ideology. You are an ideologically radical economic vice president, and that is no longer being carried anywhere, Minister. [[Protests]] And second, internal division and permanent changes. Then you talk about the crises of others. They have been feeding that this parliamentary group is in crisis for two weeks because it has been a person, but in the last four years the only spokesman for this parliamentary group has been me and at this time I have already been through three spokesmen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, three spokesmen of the Government, three foreign ministers, three justice ministers, three university ministers, four ministers of culture and five vice-presidents of the Government, Your Honor, including you. And without forgetting that you have been vice president third, who went to second and went up first, while you are lowering the Spanish economy from first division to second and will send us to third. You're a mess, but there's hope and it's that you're going to leave very soon. This is going to happen way before what you think. You can leave voluntarily or if you won't be voting very soon, because fortunately, in Spain, as in Europe, it is time for patriots. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u20	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u21	Man, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I'm progressive, I'm patriotic, but ideologically radical? [[Applauds]] If I am saying the same thing as the OECD, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Are all these agencies when they say fiscal responsibility must be ideologically radical? When they say that we must impose taxes on the rich and those sectors that are having extraordinary benefits are ideologically radical? When do they say that the most vulnerable must be supported, that Spain's labour reform is a success, are ideologically radical? Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, there is no mistake, to be patriotic is to defend the general interest; it is to have more than twenty million affiliated workers and less than three million unemployed thanks to labour reform; it is to boost the investments of the recovery plan; it is to lead the reform of the energy sector in Europe. That is what the Spanish Government is doing, and I am proud to be its Vice-President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u22	Thank you. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT CONSIDER THAT HIS GOVERNMENT DOES EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO HELP THE SPANISH FAMILIES? [[File number 180/001038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u23	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u24	Mrs Calviño, do you think your Government is doing everything possible to help Spanish families cope with this terrible crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u25	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u26	Thank you, President. Firstly, I will apologize to the President of the Government, who, for obvious reasons, has not been able to answer this question, Mrs Arrimadas. And yes, I think that from the government we have done, we are doing and we will continue to do everything we can to support all the Spaniards and try to respond to the urgency without losing sight of the importance, that for that, there is a responsible government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u28	Mrs. Calviño, what do you think many Spaniards who are right now distressed, who are suffering to arrive at the end of the month, when they see you making those triumphalist speeches and selling the government's work as if they were the best in the world? A week ago I told him about the mortgages and the difficult situation that millions of families are going through, who have seen how suddenly the mortgages 100, 150 or even 200 euros a month have gone up. And I was not alone in the diagnosis, but I brought you a concrete and realistic proposal to help these families, which is a temporary deduction in the IRPF that allows them to cushion at least part of this rise. And you did what other times: you rejected the proposal first and then had to admit it wasn't so bad and said they were going to study it. Well, have you studied it yet, Madam Vice President? I say this because tomorrow our initiative is going to be voted on here and if you want to move from words to facts, I ask you to support it and put it in place as soon as possible, because families can't wait any longer. You're trying a lot harder to cover up the problems of the Spaniards than you are trying to solve them, and I'm going to give you several examples. For example, because they did not like the data given by the INE, they fulminated their president; because they did not like the information given by EFE, they charged their president; and the last infamy this week is that because they did not like everything they gave on Spanish Radio Television, they take their president out of the way. You don't even settle for fingering people in the public media who consider themselves like your ideology, no; it's that if you're not docile enough, you cease them. But there's no propaganda that's worth covering up for reality. There are more and more middle-class families who suffer, who struggle to reach the end of the month; who receive no help from the Government and who only pay, pay and pay all day long. So yes, we have to lower taxes on Spanish families. And I tell you that you do worry so much that taxes are lowered in an autonomous community yes and in another autonomous community no, I have a masterful solution: you lower taxes, that you are going to lower them to all the Spaniards at the same time. You can start tomorrow by approving the measure I'm proposing for mortgages. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u29	Thank you very much. I have the floor, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u30	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Arrimadas, as I explained the other day, we have to think of all the Spaniards, not only those who have a difficulty paying the mortgage - which also - but also those who have difficulty filling the shopping basket, to pay for gas and electricity, to pay for transportation. That is why all the packages of measures we have put in place - and we will continue to put in place - reach 100 percent of Spanish citizens. All businesses and citizens benefit from the fall in VAT on electricity and gas, the fall in taxes on electricity, the free medium-distance transport, the bonus for petrol and diesel, the rise in pensions, the rise in non-contributory pensions, the minimum living income. Or do those citizens you talk about not have a father who is receiving a pension or do not have the best children who are receiving a scholarship to go to school or to go to college? All these measures have been implemented by the Government. We have mobilised 30 billion euros of public money to support Spanish families. Mrs. Arrimadas, where do you think that public money comes from? Gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of VOX, gentlemen of Citizens, where do you think that public money comes from? What do you think taxes are for if it's not to finance our welfare state? [[Applauds]] All you propose is that we lower taxes, and this government has no problem, it has nothing against doing so. Moreover, we have done so from the very beginning: a year ago we lowered taxes, relieving families. But if that's your only proposal, tell us: What are you going to cut off from the welfare state? What do they want to cut, health, education, pensions? [[Protests]] Say it clearly, if that's your plan. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, as far as mortgages are concerned, we are not talking, we are doing. That is why we are already working with the financial sector to find mechanisms that will enable us to alleviate the situation of those families who have not taken up fixed-rate mortgages, who do not want to change from variable to fixed-rate mortgages so that they can alleviate their situation and continue to support Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTATE DIEGO GAGO BUGARÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHY THE SPANISH SHOULD BELIEVE IN HIS GOVERNMENT AND NOT IN HIS LIGHT AND GAS FACTURES? [[File number 180/001045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u32	Questions addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Diego Gago Bugarín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u33	Madam Vice President, where is the government? Nine ministers out of twenty-three in full control of the Government. Where's the government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u34	One second, Your Honor, it hasn't activated the sound. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u35	I was saying, Minister, that where the government is. Nine out of twenty-three ministers in full control of the Government at a key moment in our country's economic and gas crisis. The Spaniards do not understand their triumphalism in the midst of the gas and economic crisis. They do not understand how this Government intends to deceive them over and over again by telling them that we are better off thanks to their Iberian exceptionality when they are paying three and four times more on their bills in what goes on in the summer. I also brought an invoice, an electric fare from a hotel, in this case from the municipality of Sanxenxo, in Pontevedra. [[showing a document]] In July 2021 they paid 20,577 euros and in July this year they have paid 54,074 euros, more than 15,000 euros of their Iberian exceptionality. How will the Spanish believe in their government and not in their electricity and gas bills? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u36	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u37	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. I understand that it is important to take as a starting point something that is obvious, and it is that in a crisis like the one we are experiencing it is very difficult to find any European who can get out unharmed. What this government has done from the very beginning - in fact, the first one that began to do so - has been to take steps to alleviate this impact. It surprises the will of permanent disinformation with which you play, altering part of the capital reality. We have taken steps to reduce taxes, the tax burden on electricity and gas, to the point that today this burden has been reduced by more than 86%; we have reduced charges and tolls, and today we are talking only about energy. In fact, we have saved EUR 2600 million in energy to date thanks to this Iberian mechanism, EUR 17 per month for the amount corresponding to energy on each of our invoices, with an average price of EUR 146 since it applies -EUR 267 if we apply the additional adjustment - which is 35% below what the French pay, 40% below what the Italians pay and 25% below what the Germans pay. So not triumphalism, but measures to alleviate the effects of this huge crisis on the Spaniards, do not hesitate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u38	Mr. Gago Bugarín.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u39	Mrs Ribera, I believe much more in the Spanish bills than in you, much more. [[Applauds]] You and your government have shut down the Maghreb gas pipeline, that is, 50% of the gas coming by tube to Spain at a competitive price; you have been unable to move forward on interconnections and have caused us to need more gas to produce the same electricity today, increasing CO2 emissions, and have made us rely on 8% of Russian gas. When you were appointed minister, we bought zero cubic meters of gas from Russia. That is the reality and that is why the Eurostat report - I already know it is not its CIS - denies it and believes that Spain has increased electricity prices by 60% this year, compared to 8% of France - of what you assume - and 16.6% of Germany. That is the reality, 60% Spain and 8% France. Therefore, eliminate charges and extend the VAT and gas rebate throughout the winter. And, Minister, speaking of France, how is the French Government not going to be happy if the Spanish have been subsidizing more than EUR 600 million of the electricity we sell to France from our pocket on our bill? How come they're not gonna be happy? The question is, are you happy, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u40	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u41	Thank you very much, President. I invite you to make this map of all the European energy markets that publish every day the difference, to make known what the BOE says with regard to the reductions in the charges that depend on the state and to explain why Mr Macron wants to extend to the whole of the European Union what he has described as the most effective mechanism to further reduce the price of light in Spain and Portugal. [[Applauds]] There is one additional question I would like to ask you, in line with that insolvency or bad faith. What do you mean, that companies are obliged to sell at a loss? Is that what the People's Party proposes, not paying for gas? And in that case, what course does our economy have? Or do you want to increase taxpayers' burdens far above what it means for each energy consumer to pay the proportional share of energy? I insist, being disinformation champions, it's either insolvency or bad faith. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHY FOR THE MEASURES OF LIGHT AND GAS THE INVESTMENT TERMS ON 31 DECEMBER? [[File number 180/001046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u42	Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u43	Thank you, President. Mrs Ribera, you say that you are the people's government, but all the Spaniards, all the people, have been impoverished at least 10% in the last year. You say that we are stronger, and we are the only country in the European Union that has not recovered pre-pandemic GDP; we are the worst and you presume. You say you will not leave anyone behind when there has never been more poor in Spain, and one in three Spaniards is at risk of poverty. Don't you realize that the problem is not the rich, that the problem is that with you the families that have a bad time multiply? Why do they not extend, at least until the end of winter, the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas? Why don't the IRPF adjust revenues below €40,000 so that the Spanish don't pay twice the price hike? Why not lower VAT on commodities, as we have been claiming in the People's Party? Why do they not recognize that they do not know what to do and copy the proposal of the People's Party at once, as they did with the check of 200 euros for the most vulnerable? [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u44	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u45	Thank you very much, President. Do you know which is the autonomous community where inequality between the rich and the poor is greatest? The Community of Madrid, where there is no property tax and where the children of families of more than 100000 euros are scholarshiped. [[rumors]] That's a problem. [[Applauds]] This Government is responding to an unusual situation without its support. In June 2021 we warned - we were the pioneers - and we lowered the VAT on electricity from 21 to 10%, without their support. Since then, we have been taking steps to address these energy circumstances and the impact on families and businesses, measures that have been taken over the months: in June, September and November 2021 and in May, June, August and September 2022. How many of these measures have been supported? None. But I want to say one thing: we will continue to do so; we will continue to think about the best way to support the industrial fabric and the Spanish families, I hope with their support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u46	Mr. Olano Vela.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u47	Mrs Ribera, talking about Madrid when you are the third political force doesn't say much about the Socialist Party. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]] Listening to her, the Spaniards wonder what kind of government you are. They don't have a plan to deal with the crisis, but they don't let themselves be helped either. They extend the reduction of light and gas at least until the end of the winter, it is a measure of pure common sense; they adjust the IRPF to the rise in prices so that families and pensioners can reach the end of the month; they lower VAT on basic products: oil, meat, fish, water, pasta, so that Spanish people with medium and low incomes can cope with the shopping basket. Do it now, the Spaniards can't wait any longer. You, Mrs Ribera, are a real caricature of what must be a government in the face of a crisis. They only worry about propaganda, in a gross attempt to get their story to impose itself on a reality that runs over them day by day. Today they say one thing, tomorrow they do the opposite; they defend one thing here while they do the opposite in the Basque Country. Yesterday the parliamentary spokesman said not to deflate the IRPF, but Mr Puig announced that he would do so, copying, albeit cosmetically, the proposal of the President of the People's Party in the Valencian Community, the same Mr Puig who until yesterday called for sanctions for the PP communities that lower taxes: Navarra, Canarias, Aragon, Extremadura. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Mrs Ribera, you are absolutely alone. [[Laughter]] They say they're the people's government, and even their people don't listen to them. Spain needs a serious, capable and reliable government, and it is clear that you are not, Mrs Ribera. [[Several honourable Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u48	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u49	Do you know the best way to respond to this situation? The tax system of property tax, wealth and high income taxes, and the extraordinary profits of businesses. [[protests.-Applause]] But let me tell you one thing, in the area of energy - perhaps the most sensitive at the moment - we have taken action on five major fronts: consumer protection, tax treatment, protection of industry and society, protection of the vulnerable and health care with regard to income. The other day I came to see Juan Bravo, enormously constructive, betting on the present and the future, indicating that we could not miss this train and that we should speed up the execution of the recovery plan. Less than twenty-four hours later, his president associated himself with Aznar in negationism and the president of the Madrid Community asked for more time to implement the recovery plan because it did not seem to him relevant enough. Let's see if you decide with respect how to tackle the crisis we are experiencing, the impact on society and the productive fabric, because for now you shoot in all directions, but always trying to protect those who have more. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA FIGAREDO ÁLVAREZ-SALA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President, THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHY DOES THE GOVERNMENT NOT WANT TO DIRECTLY ADVISORY TO THE SPANISH ON THEIR ENERGY POLICY? [[File number 180/001041]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u50	Question by Mr José María Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u51	I give the question for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u52	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u53	The question was why we didn't consult the Spaniards. Basically, because they're being consulted at the polls. It is our parliamentary system; basic notions of the Constitution. I don't know if you're talking about the Franchise plebiscites or what you want to talk about. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u54	José María Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u55	Minister, you have made it very clear what you always do. The solution to all his problems are: virus, Putin, Franco. If one doesn't serve him, the other serves him. [[Applauds]] Your energy policy, Minister, is a real disaster. Electricity and gas prices are rising in Spain more than in any other country in Europe, and the reasons are clear: your measures, which you are more dogmatic than any other government in Europe. You came into charge and attacked the fossil fuels directly. You physically dynamite the power plants. You explicitly attack nuclear power plants; you ban, limit and restrict the activity of hydraulic pumping plants - probably the most stable, renewable and clean energy we can have in Spain -. The conclusions of all this are evident: an invoice of overflowing light. And the only solutions they propose for this are absurd: a ration chart. It had not been seen since the post-war period. [[Rumors]] You limit the time consumption of electricity and gas. Two, of course, subsidy, which also restricts tax escalation and distorts consumption. That in turn triggers inflation, not to mention that the foreign neighbours of our country come to Spain to refuel that energy that you subsidize with the taxes of all Spaniards. So, yes, minister, please consult the Spanish. If you want, Greta Thunberg; if you want, the 2030 Agenda; if you want, all of its climate chills and light bills triggered or, if you want, common sense, legal certainty, certainty and reasonable energy prices, because its measures are absolutely absurd and contrary to the interests of the Spanish. And you say they're going to consult at the polls. They have already had two disastrous results in Castile and León and Andalusia, and I wish them a result in the absolutely catastrophic national elections, because in Spain, as in Europe, it is the time of patriots. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u56	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u57	I'd been intrigued for a few days thinking about where some absolutely absurd bubbles were coming from that were circulating through networks. And look what I was imagining, but you just confirmed this with the rationing charts and I don't know what other absurdities. [[Applauds]] Because that's his way of understanding politics: lying without modesty, without feeling, without emotion, and burning up at times when people go through it the worst, creating even more fear, and that's enormously dangerous. [[laughs]] I will tell you who has consulted the Spanish and Europeans: the Eurobarometer, in May 2022. If Europeans think that more efficiency is good for the economy by 87 %, in Spain it is more than 90 %. If they think that reducing oil imports helps to improve the economy by 86 %, the Spanish think that it is 91 %. That renewables reduce stable prices and that they are a source of employment, the Spaniards believe it to be 87 % against Europeans, who think it is only 81 % of the cases. If climate action is an engine for innovation, employment and the generation of new industrial models for the Spanish by 87%, it is again above the average position of Europeans, around 85%. The same applies to the link between climate action and health: in the case of Europeans, around 85%; in the case of Spanish, 94%. But they follow us, not only with the idea that it is the way to invest today - for the better today and for the better tomorrow - in employment, in reducing energy costs, in industrial innovation and in improving the bill in all respects, including health aspects, it is also the way in the investment figures that are accompanied and that I had the opportunity to remind you the other day. Self-consumption has grown by more than 409% over four years; photovoltaics installed by more than 260 %; wind power by more than 26 %. One in five green hydrogen projects is located in our country, mobilizing more than 5200 million European euros and more than 7000 private investment, and employment data, both in industry associated with the production of equipment and in the renewable energy sector, grow to a large extent with respect to the reduction of the rest of the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON FRANCESC Xavier ERITJA CIURÓ, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING TO THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PREVIOUS TO REVISE THE PROHIBITION OF VEGETABLE RESIDUES? [[File number 180/001037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u59	Question by Mr Xavier Eritja Ciuro, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u60	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Madam Vice President. Article 27.3 of the Waste Act prohibits the burning of plant remains, plant waste in general, except for very specific cases of doubt and difficult interpretation, which even in most autonomous communities do not know how to apply it. Already at the time our group warned in the processing of this law that in some points it was difficult to apply precisely because of its lack of concreteness. In any case, the rule is in force today and is therefore affecting precisely the agricultural sector, which cannot burn the plant remains derived, above all, from pruning and cutting, as it has done all its life. Implementing this measure right now means that farmers must face up to the costs of treating these waste. That's the problem. The agricultural sector cannot and must bear these management costs, and less so at a time when the sector is immersed in a deep structural crisis, aggravated precisely by a context of political and energy crisis which has greatly worsened its situation in a very important way and with unorthodox increases in production costs, in many cases doing what would be impossible even its own farms. Hence his reaction of clear indignation these days. Just yesterday, in some sub-delegations of the Government of the State, part of the sector was manifested. And all this from day to day, without time even to adapt the new law. That is why we ask you: does the Government plan to review the ban on burning plant waste?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u61	Madam Vice-President-third.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u62	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. This is a matter in which I believe that the administrations must work together, providing solutions to farmers, to people who on small farms or in forest management feel that they do not know how to solve something that, in fact, is law, which has exceptions, which needs development by the autonomous communities, which are subject to exceptional authorizations and which, at the same time, must be reconciled with other needs of public interest as important as the prevention of fires, such as the health and quality aspects of the air that we breathe, such as the impulse to the circular economy that allows us to take advantage of these remains in order to be reused as biomass, sometimes with energy recovery through different formulas. I think this is a crucial aspect. I am aware that it has raised concerns on the part of many farmers. I am also aware that from the Ministry of Agriculture a support programme has been launched precisely in the context of the recovery plan in order to be able to finance some of the machines that allow us to reduce these pruning remains through crushers, more than 310 million euros. But, as I say, I think it is good that we can work together with the autonomous administrations to find concrete solutions to this issue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u63	Mr. Eritja Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u64	Madam Vice-President, the main problem or the great problem that arises today is that farmers have in many cases, in most cases, chosen to accumulate waste and leave it in the field itself, and this poses a double risk: on the one hand, possible fires and, on the other hand, creating a favourable environment for pests and diseases. Therefore, it is not a minor problem. Therefore, the solution must be urgent, as it may raise medium-term problems. Our position on how waste should be managed is clear, very clear, and we are committed to progress in the circular economy, but it is also true that measures of this kind, of this kind, require even a period of transition and adaptation to the regulations. Or allow such adaptation so that administrations can take over management and provide resources to do so, or this measure - which is happening now - will fall directly on an agricultural sector that, I repeat, has been suffering from a critical situation for a long time. I insist again, the sector cannot and should not bear the costs of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u66	Thank you, President. I think we should meet in this space. This has been a law that has been processed and approved for several years, where there has been virtually unanimous support from all parliamentary forces and from the autonomous communities. I believe that the implementation, the application of many of these precepts is difficult to manage from the state, because they are competences that do not belong to us and, however, it seems to me essential to work on guidelines, guidelines that allow us to clear up doubts. It is true that the law itself provides that they can be incinerated when it is not possible for plant waste management to be addressed for phytosanitary reasons and it can generate other problems, such as the spread of pests, and it is also recommended in forest environments when the removal and subsequent management of plant waste is not possible. I think this forces us to think about how to work on better information to the agricultural and forestry sector, how to boost greater investment in material means, how to enable clean points for the delivery of vegetable waste making it easy for any operator and how to build treatment facilities. There are budget allocations from the State... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u67	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE NEW LAW OF OFFICIAL SECRETS APPROVAL TO THE LAW OF AN ADVANCED DEMOCRACY? [[File number 180/001039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u68	Questions to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u69	Thank you. Minister, I don't know if you've seen the Save the King series, a series that provides more data and information than any Spanish government has given about the role of King Emeritus and the Royal House in 23-F. And it is that the cloak of impunity has been so extensive and so thick that a documentary comes to tell what the State is trying to hide. And according to the proposal of the new law of secrets, it seems that it will continue to be so. That is why I ask you: do you believe, Mr Bolaños, that the new Official Secrets Act will be homologable to those of an advanced democracy?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u70	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yes, the law in the processing of classified information will not only be homologable, but will be at the forefront of Europe. I think that with this law we will overcome a vestige of Francoism, a law of 1968 that is still in force. I think that we are also going to implement a commitment by the President of the democratic regeneration government of our country, and that we are also going to fulfil the requirements of the European Commission for greater transparency. I can assure you that the law does not start from scratch, that we have worked hard, that we have studied the comparative law a lot, and that is why I strongly affirm to you that it is a law of maximums, maximum transparency and maximum protection of national security, which is the security of all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u72	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u73	You have spoken about the starting point, and that is that there really is a basic starting point that you should not forget, Minister. For example, neither France, nor Germany, nor any other State to which it can allude has had in force for more than forty years a law made from a dictatorship to protect itself and even today the darkest periods of the so-called Transition. The preliminary draft has too many areas of darkness and opacity to be democratic. To begin with, any question may be classifiable according to the assessment made by the Government or other body, including those which constitute a violation of international human rights standards, Minister. Secondly, there are declassification periods of up to fifty years that can be extended to another fifteen years. What's this supposed to mean? Maintain secrecy and impunity over LAGs, cases of torture, the dark business of the Transition, 23-F, events like 3 March or the Sanfermines of 1978. All of them will remain unclarified, maintaining impunity for them and denying the truth of justice and reparation that all victims of these violations deserve. A democratic State should have no reservations about knowing the whole truth about what has happened, whether in the pre-constitutional period or at any later stage, to this day. The proposed new Official Secrets Act does not respond to the demands that we have been demanding for decades since Euskal Herria. Mr Bolaños, we hope you will be willing to pick up the proposals that have been made by associations and agencies to correct this law and bring it into line with democratic standards. Only then will it be possible to build a future based on transparency, truth and justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u74	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think you are wrong to have such a negative opinion of the bill that we are still working within the government, because it has not been definitively adopted, it is simply in the first round, and of course we will study in detail all the contributions that are made in the procedure for approving this law in the Council of Ministers. Look, it is making clear progress in the current regime, clearly, because, for example, what this law does is to ensure the national security of all, and it does so by protecting it with a system of guarantees so that it is known that this information is also being carried out from the Government, it is being dealt with from the Government with all the rigour that is needed. Look, you're talking about 50 years seems like an excessive number of years. Look, I explain to you again that we have studied all the comparative law, and not only that, we realize that there are countries that may have a shorter overall deadline, but with many exceptions, which in practice does not declassify almost any reserved matter. There are countries, for example the United Kingdom, which have a general deadline of 20 years, but have indefinite extensions, which in fact makes it possible for a particular subject never to be declassified. And in our legislation, which we are planning to put into effect, not only do these deadlines have a single extension period, but they can also be declassified at any time. Therefore, I say to you that it is homologable, I say to you that it is at the forefront, I say to you that it is an advance in our undisputed democracy. And I do not want to end without giving you my opinion on the democratic transition that you question: it is the pillar and it was exemplary for us to have in Spain today the democracy that we have enjoyed for more than forty years. The political transition is also a capital of this parliamentary group, of the Socialist Group. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u76	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MRS MARTA GONZALEZ VAZQUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: DOES IT SEEM APPROACHED TO THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY THAT A MAN MAY AVOID A COMPLAINT FOR GENERAL VIOLENCE DECLARING THAT HE IS WOMEN BEFORE THE CIVIL REGISTRATION? [[File number 180/001047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u77	Questions to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Marta González Vázquez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u78	Thank you, President. Mrs Montero, these days Spanish women discover with concern new developments that affect them in a very negative way. A man accused of assaulting his partner will be tried for domestic violence and not for gender-based violence, as he had changed his registration and for official purposes is now a woman. La Manada's lawyer relies on the newly adopted Law on Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom to request a downward review of the conviction of his representatives. Do you think it appropriate, Minister, for women to see their rights cut short by the laws you have promoted since your ministry? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u79	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u80	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I'd ask you to stop lying, but it's like asking them to stop stealing, impossible. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] So, basically, I'm going to ask you to stop being a speaker in this Chamber of Machism and Transphobia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u81	Mrs. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u82	Minister, less reproach, less insult and better meditate on the consequences of your unconscious legislative activity. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well, very well!]] Because unbridled laws like yours are causing and will cause irreparable damage to Spanish society, and they damage what we have worked hard to build for many years to eliminate the inequality that affects women. If the Gender Self-Determination Act is passed as you have brought it to the House, without reports from the advisory bodies, by urgent procedure and without time for debate or for the drafting of amendments by parliamentary groups, in total contempt for this House and its constituent groups, it will cause serious harm not only to women but also to minors and their families. Speaking of minors, last Wednesday you appeared on the Equality Commission and made a number of misconceptions. Our group, with generosity, prefers to think that you made a unfortunate mistake, but instead of rectifying, being humble and apologizing, says that you are the object of a campaign, of course, of lies and that you live this situation with great shame. Once again you are mistaken, Minister. We are the ones who are ashamed that it is you and your team who claim to hold the representation of women in that ministry that stopped working for equality from the moment you took the lead. Mrs Montero, this is not about political violence, a term that you often turn to for refuge or for machismo; it is simply about the tiredness that causes your events paid with the money of all taxpayers. Consider what the Chairperson of the Equality Commission herself asks on this front page. [[Shows a cover of the newspaper El Mundo where it is read: Trans law will destroy equality legislation.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u83	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u84	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this is a government control session, not a private class session in the State Official Gazette and current legislation, which you have to bring from home. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u85	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u86	First, the mere change of name in the Register does not alter the legal responsibilities of any person. Secondly, the trans law will be law and it will be law before the end of this year, but it is not yet approved. Therefore, this alleged change in the register that you are talking about has been made under Law 3/2007, which, as you know, requires two years of hormonal change for gender identity and a medical report proving gender dysphoria. Thirdly, neither Law 3/2007 nor the Trans Act currently under parliamentary debate allow retroactivity, so it is not possible for any man to discharge his criminal responsibilities. Please see, in concrete terms, the Trans Act, which is currently under parliamentary debate, says in its article 41.3: The correction of the registration relating to sex and, where appropriate, the change of name shall not alter the legal regime which, prior to the registration of the registration of the change, was applicable to the person for the purposes of Organic Law 1/2004. In other words, any violence against a woman by virtue of being a woman prior to the registration change will continue to be considered as gender-based violence. Your Honor, those who jeopardize women's rights are sexists, sexual aggressors and, also, those who deny violence against women, who are with whom you govern. [[Applauds]] They could already resign Mr Gallardo, who yesterday called the victim of a sexist murder privileged and his two children of 2 and 7 years old. It is not trans people who put women's rights at risk, it is patriarchy, it is sexism and it is aggressors. [[Rumors]] And I believe that trans people and the LGBT community owe us a parliamentary debate on trans law and transphobia-free LGBTI rights. And don't doubt it, Your Honor, we are more who want the trans law to be law and so it will be before the end of the year. Thank you so much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u87	Quiet, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WILL YOU DIMITATE? [[File number 180/001042]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u88	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u89	Thank you, President. From Spanish to Spanish, from politics to politics, from women to women and, above all, from mother to mother, the barbarities that he poured out last week in parliamentary office and that millions of families were able to hear are not susceptible to interpretation, because in a literal and unequivocal way they incited the corruption of minors, yes, starting a way to normalize sexual practices of adults with children, a full-fledged advocacy of paedophilia, equipping pathologies to normal behaviors, and whose direct consequence is the most absolute lack of protection of minors and children from sexual predators. [[rumors]] [[rumors]] [[Mr. Echenique Robba: What a shame!]] Because of the seriousness of your words, will you resign? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u90	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u91	Thank you, President. No, no, [[applause.-Laughter.-Mr. Clavell López: But what is this?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u92	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u93	After his statements, we now understand that since Podemos systematically sees the investigation of recent sexual scandals with minors, for from his words we extract that these aberrations do not in essence see them as a crime, but accept them as something normal. His social engineering, based on a perverse ideology, seeks to confuse the innocent, presenting the darkest desires of the radical left as rights. You victimize people on the pretext of protecting them, but then abandon them in a society that dehumanizes the individual and humanizes the animal. [[Rumors]] We hear the words of a minister who has lost the north and the papers, who turns her personal problems into state issues and who legislates for trauma. His ministry is the biggest attack on the equality of Spaniards, the embodiment of discrimination and its policies against confrontation. It is 525 million euros useless, except for you, your little friends, friends and friends, while thousands of Spanish families do not arrive at the end of the month. Since VOX we have called for your reprimand and your cessation, and we have complained against you for inciting a crime of child corruption. Children are not mature enough to make certain decisions, so they are children, and their parents and the public authorities subsidiaryly are responsible for ensuring their protection and not for their corruption. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Resignation, resignation!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u94	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u95	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I am deeply ashamed of your campaign of political violence and against the right to sexual education of children and adolescents in our country. [[Applauds]] You against me can do whatever you want, which here we are going to follow, is what there is, but the problem and the questions that are in our country are: What do we do to end the violence against children, today still enormously invisible? How do we give boys and girls tools to identify such violence, when in 84% of cases they are known men and therefore those who trust, who exercise such violence? What do we do, too, to curb the increase in sexually transmitted infections? What do we do to make sure that no child mocks another child or another child by the shape or size of his or her body? What do we do so that all boys and girls know that in the future they will be able to love anyone they want, that they don't have to put themselves in a closet or that they can be those who are fearless? What do we do so that the average age of initiation of violent prostitution is not eight years? What do we do to make them understand that relationships have to be based on consent, that treating well is right, and that treating badly is wrong? What do we do so that children do not become older as aggressors, based on a culture of rape that will only be reversed by public policies against the macho violence that you deny and, of course, by sex education from the earliest ages? Your Honor, sex education is a right of children and adolescents, and we are going to guarantee it in the sexual and reproductive health law, because in this House and in society we are more who want sex education for our children. And you, those who whiten and deny macho violence, those who question public policies against macho violence, those who question victims and privileged flames, those who vote against the law of childhood or the law of alone is yes, and those who vote against investigating sexual assaults within the Church so that they remain in impunity, are a minority, Your Honor. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Finally, I would like to ask the House how long we are going to tolerate these campaigns of political violence against any of us, how long we are going to allow them to use this House as the speaker of their machismo. I ask you to lift your feet, feminists and democrats, we have to stop your feet, and we already pass the abortion law, because these fascists are stopped with rights. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-in Communal May-Galicia in common, stood up.- Several ladies and gentlemen of VOX: Resignation!Resignation! Resignation!-Mr. Mayor Perales: Other South! Up South! Up South!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u96	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, into the implementation of a distance work plan for the public sector that will contribute to territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation. In his defence, Mr. Guitarte Gimeno has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u97	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, telework broke out as an emergency solution against COVID-19. [[Rumors]] In this crisis situation caused by the pandemic, it was shown that teleworking, without affecting and sometimes improving productivity... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u98	Excuse me, Mr. Guitarte, for a moment. Please, can you keep some silence so we can hear Mr. Guitarte? [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u99	The telework broke out as an emergency solution in front of the COVID-19. This crisis situation caused by the pandemic has shown that teleworking, without affecting and sometimes improving productivity, allows, inter alia, significant energy savings and also reduces the time-consuming and energy-consuming movement of workers. On the other hand, in this same pandemic crisis, remote work based on telecommunications networks, which relativize and even cancel the distance, facilitates the importance of the proximity between the place of residence and the place of work and, by the way, broadens the options both regarding the location and the type of housing for people who use this form of remote work. All these circumstances relativize the value of proximity and distance and, in addition, open up an opportunity for the rural environment by offering the possibility that teleworkers can choose as their place of residence the small cities and rural municipalities closest to the natural environment, in contrast to many residences in large cities, which prioritise the proximity to the work centre. The pandemic brought many negative consequences, but it also brought new habits that can be positive and we must incorporate into our productive model. One of them is this, telework, which generates opportunities and benefits, and some of them can be beneficial tools to combat spatial misalignment and imbalances. We need to take many more steps to promote telework. There are data, such as those that recently broadcast FUNCAS, that force us to reflect. In 2019, only 4% of Spanish employees worked remotely, far away from 12% or 13% of countries in northern Europe. With the pandemic this percentage became 15% in the hardest months of confinement, although the average was 9%. According to FUNCAS, teleworking has been in Spain in the last two years 3.6 times less than its maximum potential. We believe that it should be strengthened and regulated, because it can be a good tool for cohesion of the territory and also for facilitating family reconciliation, apart from the countless benefits it has for sustainability. Telework offers an opportunity for people who freely choose it, but also - and this is the reason behind this inquiry - for the territories affected by depopulation. Therefore, if teleworking opens the way for the arrival of new residents to unpopulated areas it will be offering a tool that public administrations must take advantage of and an excellent opportunity for the reversal of the depopulation of many territories and, therefore, for territorial cohesion. If we see naturally that there are Germans or British working from the Canary Islands or from the Balearic Islands for their multinationals based in Frankfurt or in the City, we could more naturally understand and promote that there are Spanish workers who want to work from their towns of origin and from localities of emptied Spain. That for that there must be political will is obvious, and that is what we are asking for through this motion. Does the Government and the Minister of Finance agree that teleworking in public administrations and private companies opens up an opportunity to reverse depopulation? What measures can you take to that end? Because, of course, for this it is necessary that we also eliminate the gaps in connectivity, because the digital divide is one of the elements that is stopping this and other modernization processes in the rural environment and in the regions. With regard to private enterprises, Royal Decree 28/2020 of 22 September on Distance Work was adopted, but curiously in its second additional provision, which refers to labour personnel in the service of public administrations, points out that the provisions contained in this Royal Decree will not apply to labour personnel in the service of public administrations, which will be governed in this area by its specific regulations. Subsequently, with two years of delay and conditioned by the energy crisis, the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 24 May 2022, which approved the Energy Savings and Efficiency Measures Plan of the General Administration of the State and the entities of the institutional public sector, has been published. This agreement states that the General Administration of the State must take a leading role, promoting actions that promote energy saving and efficiency in the public sector that can, in turn, serve as a model for other public administrations and private entities that join this initiative and enable them to obtain savings in the energy bill in the short term. In implementation of this agreement, the undersecretary of his ministry, of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, published on 14 September a distance work plan in the central departments of the ministry itself and the delegations of Finance, which represents a greater realization of this management that has been demanded by the public administrations, although this agreement limits teleworking to two non-consecutive days. We value it as an advance in the criteria of energy efficiency and in the reduction of displacements to boost the remote or teleworking work of public employees. This contributes to the reduction of the carbon footprint, but in no way contributes to territorial cohesion or to promoting policy measures against depopulation. We would therefore like the Government to address the content of this inquiry and will appreciate the importance of adding the criteria we advocate to its remote work plan, as well as to all public administrations. With this interpellation we seek, as with the other initiatives that we have been proposing in the Courts, to make up for the lack of an administrative legal procedure, such as the necessary rural guarantee mechanism, which should govern the actions of the public administrations and their political measures to confront the reality of the unpopulated areas. It is a question of considering the very serious problem of depopulation and helping to alleviate and reverse this socio-territorial process, both with the strength of the State and with the detail of the implementation of its actions. The decrease in the presence of the State in the regions of Spain emptied through the closure of offices, services, barracks, schools or railway lines or its lack of modernization contributes to the loss of functionality of the territories and their depopulation, a circle that is refuelling. On the contrary, if you were to act in that sense, in the sense of the interpellation we are defending, there would be a synergistic action: to convert the teleworking of public administrations, which in itself is already a mode of work involving a socio-economic advance and, moreover, another way of deconcentrating administration in a diffuse and perhaps much more effective way, into a tool to reverse depopulation, which is - let us admit - a real problem of the state. In particular, this agreement to which we refer from the general framework of public administrations for teleworking can be another tool in the fight against depopulation and must and can be a model for private companies themselves. Does the minister share this view that teleworking in public administrations is a lever to activate territorial cohesion and that it must be exploited? Therefore, will the criterion of territorial cohesion be introduced in the implementation of the agreement of the Council of Ministers on teleworking in the Ministry of Finance and Public Service? But it is not only a question of introducing a concept into the administrative literature, which functions as a more aesthetic than a real resource, it is a question of applying it in detail and in a way that makes it really effective. For intelligent management of teleworking we have a lever to fight the digital divide, a gap that increases depopulation, but for this we have to make a very careful and detailed regulation of it in the public administrations. The teleworking of some public employees during the months of containment of the pandemic was a first sample of this opportunity. Therefore, in addition to the aims of energy saving and reducing displacement, the objectives of this plan to encourage distance work must necessarily include residential flexibility, territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation, with two types of measures. Firstly, what we call telework with residence in rural areas and areas affected by depopulation. And, secondly, with a program of state scope that also includes the autonomous communities, guaranteeing the presence of public administrations in the areas affected by depopulation, so that the administrations guarantee their presence, with face-to-face attention to the public in the heads of the region and in small municipalities, taking advantage of telework precisely to complete the working hours of the officials, if necessary. We are in favour of an effective, solvent and strong State that has a presence throughout the territory so that no one feels abandoned. Therefore, we would like the Ministry of Finance to take up the work line we have mentioned of teleworking with residence in rural areas, with measures that encourage teleworking among those public employees who carry out activities that may benefit from this remote work plan and who request it to reside in municipalities or small cities affected by depopulation problems. However, in order for the mode of work to be implemented in unpopulated areas, it is essential, as a limiting condition, that these municipalities have high-speed digital connectivity networks so that people who wish to use them can use them from their residence in rural areas, in the county heads and in small towns affected by depopulation. In the absence of a good fibre optic network, it seems appropriate that appropriate connectivity solutions can be offered from the relevant Administration for public employees who may specify it: what less than a 4G data card. This measure is a good opportunity to digitally connect many Spanish provinces, which remain an analog shadow in the 21st century. In emptied Spain there are countless highly qualified professionals who can't do their job because they don't have something as basic as a good Internet connection. This is so unlikely that I know that it is difficult to understand it, for example here in Madrid, or in urban contexts. However, for the information we have, in the Ministry of Finance's remote work plan, computer equipment, for example, is largely a matter for public employees. In some of the provincial delegations in the small provinces, the resilience plan has provided three laptops, which is obviously not enough for the entire workforce. But there are also no connectivity solutions; i.e., the public official or employees who want to work at home need to look for connectivity themselves. In provincial capitals, like Teruel, there is no problem, but what about in the villages of these provinces? If you don't have a 4G data card that offers you at least 10 mega, you won't be able to perform any kind of telework. If the reduction is maintained to two days, with these changes, in the number of days that can be teleworked in your ministry, these work plans will not contribute to the fight against depopulation or territorial cohesion by requiring numerous movements from a place of residence to a certain distance from the workplace. It is therefore necessary to extend the number of days public employees can telework, even if a hybrid model is maintained, i.e. that telework with the presence at the centre is in an adequate proportion. For the time being, with the planning of his ministry, public officials and employees who might consider moving their residence to another different municipality where his work centre was located have seen their hopes spoiled, and so we have heard in many provinces. With regard to energy consumption, it is necessary to assess whether a part of it is to be transferred to the public employee, because, if the regulation is not changed, it will appear that the burden of this expenditure will be borne by the official or public employee working from his or her home, and it is therefore necessary to consider how such energy consumption is to be compensated at the place of residence. We are faced with the great opportunity to use work not only for the reduction of energy consumption, but as a lever for the fight against depopulation and for territorial cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u101	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Mr Guitarte, you asked for this appearance to set out the measures that the Government intends to implement in relation to teleworking or remote work - I will now explain to you why we have made that distinction - for the public sector as a whole. It is certainly a line that contributes to territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation in the least populated areas of our country. The issue of the demographic challenge, as you well know, is present in virtually all policies, from the allocation of recovery funds to any other initiative that the Government of Spain is launching, and you know that some are quite competitive, such as the designation of the headquarters of one of the central agencies of the General Administration of the State. I think we can agree, Mr Guitarte, that there is one before and one after this legislature. There is a much more comprehensive and more integrated concept of our country and, therefore, there are opportunities for all territories to stand out in some of the areas that can objectively be raised. As a result, these are strategic policies, an opportunity for some provinces, for example Teruel, where in the past probably there has not been any action that we can take at the moment. I would say, Mr Guitarte, that this is the government that has been most concerned with reversing what is called historical oblivion in these territories, which, on some occasions, has chronically burdened economic development and also the application of equal rights, for example in the provision of services, in conditions of homogeneity with the rest of the citizens. This is the reality, Mr Guitarte, that we had when this Government was launched, and it will agree with me that, far from having achieved the best, significant progress has been made. In fact, the commitments to the existing budgets have also enabled us, as I said, to have a look at this situation in each budget line. The other day you asked me about the implementation of some investment commitments, which I already tell you are around 60%. As for the question you are asking me, Your Honor, I will now move it forward, but the decree allowing the establishment of the headquarters is a sign that we are indeed moving in the right direction. With regard to the specific question you were asking me today as to what measures are being taken in the field of distance work in the public sector for these less populated areas, I would like to share with you that we are working on different lines. You yourself have commented that a rule of distance working is currently in force, which has been provisional and derived since April as a result of the economic situation following the invasion of Ukraine, and as happened in the pandemic has a clear objective of energy efficiency, not only in terms of electricity consumption, but also of citizens' displacement, fuel consumption and all the elements that you can imagine are associated with that mode of work. As you rightly said, it is currently being applied throughout the territory, with that model two plus three in which we have been working in parallel with the trade unions and, therefore, within the framework of the Public Service bargaining table, which, as you know, is the area where we have the capacity to regulate workers' conditions as well, not just wages. This is the way in which this Government, Mr. Guitarte, can put this situation into practice. It is an opportunity that the pandemic has given us, because for a long time this modality has had to be applied to allow distance between people. But also, Mr Guitarte, it is a formula or a modality to give an opportunity to the territories where, because of the remoteness of the productive fabric or because of the lesser capacity for employment, people do not decide to locate or reside, because, as you said, they need to move to other places. It is certainly an opportunity that gives us that experience, but we have to make it compatible - this is also important - with the service that is provided to citizens. Remember, for example, that on the occasion of remote banking services, there was a movement among the larger population, which may have a greater difficulty in relating to services in a digital way. This Government was sensitive to this situation and learned from the citizens' expectations. Any such task must always allow us to reconcile a degree of face-to-face work that addresses all these issues with a degree of teleworking or distance work that allows us to meet the second objective. You know that in the Administration nothing is simple; we must be able to respond to the different realities that we have to manage and also to the different situations that can occur in our territory. That, Your Honor, is what leads us to work with trade union organizations by decisively betting on telework and by cataloguing jobs that have the capacity to be in that remote regime and what are those jobs that have to be posed face-to-face. It is a work that is not baladi and each ministry is developing it in a singular way, as well as each public administration, including municipalities or autonomous communities. I'm convinced the telework has come to stay. Public services need to rethink the way in which technologies are used, in order to facilitate contact with citizens and to avoid situations of exclusion for certain individuals or groups. It is also a very important opportunity to rethink how to evaluate performance and monitor the activities of public employees, because you will agree with me, Mr. Guitarte, that the control of face-to-face hours must necessarily be replaced, because the guarantee that people occupy their jobs has classically prevailed, within the record. We have tools to do this, another type of task and evaluation that allows us to observe performance to distribute more asymmetrically the work of people according to the needs posed by the worker or even by the service itself. That is why I say that it is not a simple task, but I can tell you that within this comprehensive, cross-cutting look at all the territories, we have incorporated in this teleworking project the possibility of 90% of this service being performed by teleworking in monthly calculation those workers in areas where there are places of difficult coverage or areas at risk of depopulation. In other words, the person who is in these environments will be able to perform up to 90% of his job in this mode - I insist, Mr Guitarte - if indeed his work of origin allows him to develop it without risking that there is no collective, no population group that can be excluded from the provision of services, as you will be able to share for fairly obvious reasons. Therefore, we are going to go beyond what is proposed in remote work, taking into account this situation, which will help to ensure that there are people who are located within areas where they did not intend to live previously and, above all, that those workers from these areas can also preserve their residence in these places and in the administrations where they operate their service within these places. Likewise, Your Honor, we are going to boost business and labour initiatives aimed at harnessing the potential of technologies to curb this depopulation. For example, and you mentioned this, in relation to the concern about connectivity or with the availability of computer tools, we will continue to promote projects such as the agreement signed with the Provincial Council of Teruel and the Transitional Ministry for the establishment of centres that are oriented towards business networking or cooperation and development, with the Connect Aragón project, which will allow the creation of up to fifteen professional and business work centres in the province of Teruel and in municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants. The public sector must also be a driver of the private initiative, so that we can, in fact, begin to apply this form of teleworking more comprehensively. There is also the last call - concello term - of the Broadband Extension Program, where we have awarded, for example, aid to the Community of Aragon for more than all the previous calls, 11 million euros, to bring that broadband to more than eighty thousand homes and to companies in this community, of which 20 500 are specifically in the province of Teruel. I believe, Mr Guitarte, as I said at the beginning of this speech, that in five years from the government of Pedro Sánchez we have given a determined impulse to attend to this reality and, therefore, to incorporate in the different policies that look and, then, in a specific way, concrete projects that improve connectivity and, ultimately, that places as important and as beautiful as those you call them, are eligible because in them we can develop work in decent conditions, of quality, without detriment to the attention that we must all give to the whole of the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u103	I welcome everything I have just heard, although I must also say that it sounds like the same things we have heard so many times: theoretical assumption of the problem and then it costs it to come true. I hope that all this will have a translation close to the actual and executive facts on the part of the ministries. I take it that the Government and you as a minister agree that teleworking in public administrations and private companies is a very clear opportunity to reverse depopulation, a tool to do so and to facilitate the arrival of new residents or to settle in existing ones in rural areas and in the regions. But I would like to know, if possible, what other measures the Government can take with regard to teleworking so that the public administration, as a whole, is a lever for territorial cohesion. In what concrete way or through what measures will the criterion of territorial cohesion be introduced in the application, for example, of this agreement of the Council of Ministers on teleworking or in the regulation of teleworking in public administrations? Is there an effective commitment, as a cohesion tool, to link work with a work residence of the public employee located in regions in the affected provinces? In order for it to be a real tool for territorial cohesion, we must empower the worker's choice of residence to be in these areas with serious problems of depopulation. It is not about other residences or going to the Caribbean, but about enabling it to be a lever of territorial cohesion. It would also be necessary to consider - we have not talked about it before - some limitations in transport and to clarify whether who is going to assume those connectivity costs will be the public employee. With regard to the number of days, which we believe is a key piece, it is essential for administrations to adopt regulations that allow teleworking to take place three or four days a week, not just two; obviously, always guaranteeing the productivity and quality of service. I have already heard that in some cases they are even thinking that 90% of the work can be telework, which will allow to consolidate many jobs that do not have enough face-to-face load, as we have seen in many cases. The possibility of teleworking must be on consecutive days, so that it does not repeatedly force you to approach the face-to-face job. I would like to mention an example of telework which has been very productive and which has managed to consolidate a job. It was in Montalbán, in an office of the National Social Security Institute, that it was to be closed because there was not enough workload for the person who physically cared for it. It has been possible to combine a hybrid solution, so that for a few hours he provides face-to-face attention and the rest of the day employs him in teleworking in files of his own ministry, which are obviously at his headquarters. Telework would allow, among other things, to make the real estate park in the rural areas profitable, would encourage the improvement of its habitability with rehabilitations and, consequently, would increase the number of inhabitants who use these services that have presence in the territory and would help to consolidate other services, due to the presence of these workers, such as health or education, which sometimes are questioned their minimum numbers to be effective. Telework broadens resources at no additional cost for public administrations to have offices of care; we first referred to the need for the presence of the State in all these territories. With this hybrid system you can maintain the presence of the State throughout the territory, because in any case you can work from there. It is, as we have also mentioned, a diffuse and very effective model of deconcentration. It is not only a matter of deconcentrating possible administrations or physical headquarters of agencies, but also of teleworking, without the need to change the headquarters of certain agencies, can make a diffuse deconcentration of jobs, which are basically employment and will ultimately cover the whole territory. I would simply like to stress that we would like all of these issues that you have raised to become effective in the shortest possible time, because, sincerely, the credibility of all this action needs to be seen in the territories. We have theoretically assumed many of the principles, but really our fellow citizens still do not see either the widespread connectivity or the guaranteed services or cases of telework that at some point could even be a one hundred percent telework, as there are already in many private companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u105	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr Guitarte, you said, there is a possibility that 90% of the day can be developed by teleworking, not only in areas at risk of depopulation, but also in posts with difficult coverage, where there is often a similarity or we could even be able to make them symmetrical, but not always. There are some difficulties in some territories arising from other issues and we will also try to ensure that they can be covered through this form of teleworking. Mr Guitarte, I think that the processes of profound transformation must be time-intensive and must have a rhythm that effectively allows execution. Not because there are measures that can be more flowered in terms of visibility is going better or faster, quite the contrary. I am one of those who think that it takes time for a disease to be addressed, for it to be diagnosed and for us to be able to put proper treatment, and I think that it is fair to acknowledge to this Government that in these years, since the arrival of President Sánchez, the whole territory has a different look from the centralizing look that the governments have traditionally had, in which most of the entities are located in the capital and there was no sensitivity to these issues. I am referring to the seven years before the People's Party, where there were areas that actually ignited the alarm and there was no effective response from the administrations. We will be able to discuss, as I said, whether the pace can be faster or can be accompanied, but no doubt you will have been able to check that in matters that have to do with the demographic challenge all ministries are committed. Both in the case of the Public Service, which is mine, and in the case of infrastructure, where, as we had the opportunity to discuss at last plenary session, an intense task has been developed to see the connection between territories in the map of regional aid. This government has beaten copper in Europe so that there is, in fact, an improvement on those elements that allow companies to find greater facilities to settle in these territories. It is obvious that it is not the only decision-making factor on the part of a company, but it helps. Population dispersion should also be considered when calculating resources in the reform of the funding system. [[The Lord]] You know that there are territories in Spain that would like the only criterion to be the population, and you know that the reform has not been able to be completed precisely because in the Executive we think that there are other elements that have to be incorporated within that distribution of resources in order to make it effective, so that it can compensate for that lack of population and can help economic stimulus, because the cost of setting up a health centre or a school in dispersed population is much higher than you can have in the concentration of large cities. I think it is fair to acknowledge this work, and I will tell you, Mr Guitarte, that, for me, that ability to rethink the public administration with this look is a global opportunity, and not just for the working conditions of the workers. I always defend the exemplary nature of public officials and I am particularly upset that there are clichés about public employees who do not correspond, I can assure you, with reality, because they are usually people who are very committed to the provision of services to citizens. We need to do our utmost with balance, so that there is no lack of attention or unwanted situations, such as letting a person who has more difficulty in using technology or certain circumstances not be able to relate satisfactorily to the Administration. We learned this from remote banking services. There was a movement that put quite the accent in which we cannot forget that reality. What I can compromise, as Minister of Public Service, is an agreement that is balanced in terms of working conditions and the provision of such public services. As always, we will do so, if possible, in the hands of the trade union organisations, because I believe, Mr Guitarte, that no one doubts that they have had a sense of homeland, a very important sense of state since the beginning of this legislature, and I firmly believe in that role of social dialogue to bring this project to a successful conclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u106	Thank you very much. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN THE MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND THE 2030 AGENDA FOR IMPLOYMENT THE 2030 AGENDA IN SPAIN. [[File number 172/000238]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u107	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to implement the 2030 Agenda in Spain. For your defense, you have the floor... [[Applauds]] Wait at least a moment for me to mention it, which I haven't even said a name yet. Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor. Now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u108	Thank you, President. Mrs.Belara, we ask you to know what measures you are going to put in place to further advance your 2030 Agenda, in addition to giving the money of the Spaniards; first, to impoverish Spain and then to go through Robin Hood's life in reverse, stealing from the Spaniards to give it to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In addition to that, Mrs Belarus, we would like to know, in order to be prevented, what further measures you are going to put in place. Let's talk first about what the 2030 Agenda is. The 2030 Agenda, as you will know, is born under the title of transforming our world: 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Well, that's good. The truth is that transforming our world sounds pretty good, as long as that transformation is for the better, not for making a world unsustainable. You can change everything that doesn't work, but the things that do work, Mrs. Belarus, you have to leave them as they are. [[Applauds]] We do not know who decided these changes and, above all, we do not know why they want to bring about so much change. If we look at the agenda, we see that it seems that the excuse is climate change, but if we continue to research and analyze the 2030 Agenda, it turns out that there are objectives on education, on health, on gender ideology, on justice. What does all this have to do with the weather emergency, Mrs. Belarra? If you ask who chose to make those changes, the answer is that there is a global consensus. For the truth, Mrs Belarus, I tell you one thing, I know absolutely no one who has been asked about these changes introduced by the 2030 Agenda. [[Applauds]] Of course, if you mean that there is a consensus to put an end to poverty, to zero hunger, to health and well-being, to clean water and sanitation, to decent work, to economic growth, of course there is a global consensus. Everyone wants those things, but do you really mean that alone? Is the 2030 Agenda just about that? We, Mrs Belarus, when we say that there is no consensus we refer to the recommendations of this agenda and to the goals that you and many other countries are turning into law. It is impossible for there to be a global consensus, for example, in something like educating children in global citizenship. I don't know any father you've asked if you wanted to educate your children in world citizenship; especially because, of course, if you educate your child in world citizenship, what about national citizenship, Mrs. Belarus? To educate in world citizenship, we must renounce our homeland, our roots, our customs, our traditions. Do you think it is possible to pretend that a Japanese or an Australian, for example, have the same vital philosophy as a Spanish? Because to me it seems no, and you will directly attack just that: traditions, customs and rooting. What a coincidence. [[Applauds]] Above all, we have heard from this very rostrum three times to say to three different people: New world order. Does that sound like you, Mrs. Belarra? I say this because it was neither me nor anyone from my parliamentary group; it was Pedro Sánchez, it was Minister Montero - who just left - and it was Gabriel Rufián. It will have nothing to do with that new world order with its 2030 Agenda, will it, Mrs. Belarus?, because education for world citizenship, new world order..., seems to have some kind of relationship. And of course, in order for a new world order to be imposed, there will also have to be a global consensus, and I do not think, Mrs Belarus, I do not think we all agree on everything. Your ladies and gentlemen in general, the People's Party, Podemos and the other independenceist platforms, tell us that we are out of the law because we do not agree with the 2030 Agenda. I have heard it many times from this rostrum and in the commissions: You are out of the law. I believed that in a democracy, Mrs Belarra, one could think differently, but it seems not. Every time we oppose the slogans of the globalist agenda they call us fascists, xenophobes, homophobes, racists and I don't know how many more things. This, Mrs. Belarus, can't be understood. I've told you about the title of the 2030 Agenda, but now I'm going to be left alone in the preamble. I'm not going on, I'm going to the preamble. The preamble to the agenda says that it aims to strengthen world peace within a broader concept of freedom. And then, Mrs Belarus, why is there a closed debate? Is it really to dispel the ideological aspects of this globalist agenda to be out of democracy? Is dissension of the ideological aspects of this agenda really out of the law? What, then, does that mean by 'a broader concept of freedom', Mrs. Belarra? Just the opposite, like everything else? Does assuming the global agenda without an option to disagree no longer resemble a dictatorship? [[Applauds]] Mrs Belarra, we do not take up the closed debates because there is a lot at stake, because we need to talk about our borders, because we need to talk about freedom of expression, because we need to talk about private property, because we need to talk about equality before the law, because we need to talk about our language, our customs, our traditions, our history, the evil so-called gender, and we need to talk about identities, personal identities and national identities, and we need to talk about life and death, Mrs Belarra. The Spanish have the right to express their views and to decide on those issues that are decisive for their lives and, above all, have the right to express their views on those issues that are decisive for their children's lives. VOX does not accept this supposed consensus imposed by the World Economic Forum and the UN, and does not accept it because these people are no one to decide on the lives of the Spaniards, because in the World Economic Forum there is not a single autonomous with difficulties to reach the end of the month; because in the World Economic Forum there is no uncertainty about pensions, the price of light or the price of gas; because there is no one in the World Economic Forum concerned about the shopping basket or the purchase of school material for their children; and because the UN, whose main mission was the maintenance of peace among nations, has fifty-seven armed conflicts in the world and is dedicated to getting into the lives of others and is dedicated to putting a global agenda in motion. [[applause]] Another of the UN's missions was the defence of human rights, and it turns out that the UN now considers it a human right to crush a child in a maternal womb. [[Applauds]] That's why we don't accept the 2030 Agenda, because the 2030 Agenda is a wolf with lamb skin. After the lamb of health they have hidden the wolf of death; after equality, the supremacy of women and other collectives; after education, indoctrination; after affordable energy, energy poverty; after decent work, the ERTE; after economic growth, inflation; after the lamb of peace, Mrs. Belarus, they have hidden the wolf of war. This agenda does not respond to patriotic interests; it involves a planned destruction of our sovereignty, our economy and the moral, social and political order. Mrs.Belara, we ask you to ask what else your ministry is going to do, especially to be prevented, because, as VOX warned from the beginning, everything you propose is just the opposite result. We were right. Don't you see everything's going backwards? Is there no hunger more than ever? Is there no more poverty than ever? Where is economic growth? Where's the decent work? Have they managed to reduce the deaths of women from domestic violence? And what about affordable energy? By the way, if you look at those countries that are not part of the 2030 Agenda, you will see that their economy is much better than those that are. [[Applauds]] But I know what you're going to answer, I know: the virus, Putin and the climate. You are going to tell me that the climate has been responsible for the fires and that the impositions of the 2030 Agenda have nothing to do with it; you are going to tell me that Putin is solely responsible for the price of gas and for the widespread price of commodities and, of course, he is going to tell me that the virus has generated the economic crisis and that it has nothing to do with the impositions of the 2030 Agenda. It's over, Mrs. Belarra. The world is turning to another direction. Only this month Chile has kicked that globalist Constitution, Italy has said that no to the 2030 Agenda and Spain sooner than later, by the hand of VOX, will also escape from the clutches of globalism. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Belarus, this agenda is a bad plan and has no good intentions. We deserve rulers fully committed to the prosperity and well-being of Spanish and non-governors dedicated to achieving global goals that go against our interests. Abandon all hope of further progress towards the destruction of the family, our customs and traditions. Do not continue to make progress towards the ruin of industry, trade, fishermen, farmers, farmers and self-employed. Leave the children alone and get to work for the Spaniards, who are paying them, because Spain has not come here so that a millionaire club imposes a global dictatorship. In Spain there is a social and patriotic movement called VOX, full of women and men free, solvent, independent, courageous, willing to defend Spain until the last consequences, women and men fully dedicated to the search for the common good. [[applause]] And I end with a phrase from Thomas Jefferson: 'The biggest patriot is the dissident because above the political interest what he wants is prosperity and freedom for the nation'. It's patriot time. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u109	Thank you. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u110	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The 2030 Agenda, beyond what can be said here today, is the most ambitious consensus that the international community has reached in recent decades. Basically, the 2030 Agenda, for all the people who are listening to us and who do not know it, is a social-democratic agenda that defends equality, the protection of the planet and that defends prosperity for all people, for all and for all. Seven years ago our country, Spain, signed this agreement with 193 countries, the most widely ratified international agreement and, as it also said, both quantitatively and qualitatively, the most ambitious signed to date. What the government of Mariano Rajoy did before we got to this ministry was basically signing this agreement and putting it in a drawer. When we formed the first coalition government since the recovery of democracy in our country and took the lead in the competences of Agenda 2030, the first thing we said - and I, as Secretary of State at the time, believe that I said it completely clearly - was that we were not going to allow under any concept that the Sustainable Development Goals would become a face wash, a green wash, a purple face wash so that large companies working against the interests of citizens would do a face wash using Agenda 2030, something we have already seen in other countries, on the other hand. Our goal from the very beginning has been for everyone to understand that the 2030 Agenda had to be translated into strong policies, courageous policies and concrete policies that people could recognize as their own. When we push for the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, we are making steady progress on the goal of sustainable development of decent work and also on the entire 2030 Agenda, and also when we are going down in our country, for the first time in fourteen years, from the three million unemployed and unemployed and when we are doing things like guaranteeing for the first time and historically the right to unemployment of female domestic workers, as we did a few weeks ago, surely one of the most feminized and precarious groups in our country. When the Ministry of Equality, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, approves a reform of the abortion law that once again puts us at the forefront of the international arena, and which, although it bothers them, also for their children and their daughters, guarantees the right to affective-sexual education, which is a right of children and girls, we are making progress in the 2030 Agenda, even if it costs the Minister of Equality a campaign of repugnant media repugnance, with her lies and her bubbles. [[Applauds]] When we adopt social shields to protect people from the worst economic crises our country has experienced in recent decades, we are also making progress in meeting the 2030 Agenda; when we put a stop to the upsurge in rents, when we deploy Renfe fertilizers from nearby and also from mid-distance, which are free; when we ban cuts in light, water or supplies; when we increase minimum and non-contributory pensions, or when we build from scratch a new social right, such as minimum living income, with all the difficulties it can have, we are making progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals in a firm and courageous way. This is the objective: to put an end to poverty, as the Agenda effectively points out. When we push a tax on big fortunes that prevents the People's Party from creating tax havens in Andalusia or Madrid, we are acting seriously and rigorously to meet the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development Goal 10, which tells us that we need to reduce inequalities. Precisely, when this government deploys without fear and without asking for forgiveness the 2030 Agenda, the courageous and progressive policies that people are waiting for from us, is when it is right. If the 2030 Agenda is used to make greenwashing o'pinkwashing of the same neoliberal and economic wrong policies that only generate inequality, pollution and poverty, we put it on a tray to the extreme right to extend the conspiracy and hate speech they are deploying here today. That is what we have seen in Italy, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what we could see in Spain. If we deploy the objectives of feminism, ecologicalism, the fight against inequality without fear, I think it will become increasingly clear that, vis-à-vis our 2030 Agenda, the agenda of these rights is an agenda of 1936. It is an agenda that defends totalitarianism, that defends hatred of women, LGBTI people, workers in our country, people who think differently. I am convinced that today, listening to your lordship of VOX, many parliamentarians who are sitting here have taken our hands to the head, I am convinced, because apart from conspiracies and globalisms we have not heard anything else from Mrs de VOX. But I don't think we have to be wrong. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not VOX, the problem is that we accept as valid that the main opposition party, the People's Party, is a moderate option compared to VOX, because it is the People's Party that has opened the doors to the extreme right in the government of Castilla y León; because it is the People's Party that is led by a friend of a drug dealer; because it is the People's Party that is using all the legal and illegal means at its disposal to cover up its corruption and to pursue political opponents; and because one of its last feats is precisely to block for almost four years the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, trampling on the Spanish Constitution and democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Several Members: Hala! Hala!-Protests.-Mr. Guijarro García: That's true!]] [[Mr Guijarro García: Shut up now!]] [[Applauds]] That's the real problem in this country and not the conspiracy exaltations of VOX. That is why, since the other day your members of the People's Party were angry because I called them in the Senate cartel, today I brought them a more precise definition, to see if they like it more. [[Rumors]] The People's Party is a mafia. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: Mature!]] It's a mafia because it's, like the definition says...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u111	One second, Your Honor. One second, minister, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u112	They got angry again today.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u113	Mr Navarro, please don't interrupt the speech. If you have anything to say, wait until the minister finishes, ask for the floor politely and we will see whether we give it to her or not, but please do not interrupt the speech. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u114	Thank you, President. He said his lordships of the People's Party were upset the other day in the Senate because I called them a cartel. I think that today, perhaps more precisely, we can define them as mafia, given that a mafia is any clandestine criminal organization or an organized group that tries to defend its interests without too many scruples. I hope that this definition will make you feel a little more represented. He said that precisely that is the problem that this country has, that the People's Party should appear as moderate before the conspiracies of the far right. And I finish my first speech with a reflection. [[Rumors]] I believe that in these two and a half years of parliamentary life it has become clear that the role of VOX and the People's Party in this House is to prevent any progress in rights that the coalition government poses. When we are right and when we move forward, it is when we defend the role of this coalition government, which is precisely what we want to make progress in rights and social justice. I believe that the role of any progressive executive must also be to draw a better horizon of possibility, a goal to move towards, because I believe that what we will never be able to do, ladies and gentlemen, is what we cannot imagine. That is why the right has always stood in front of the 2030 Agenda, because it is a road map to fight precisely for hope and for good lives for all and for all. I am aware that we live in times full of dystopia, in which the future is always reflected in the media, in the movies, in everything we see and read as a worse future. I think it is our responsibility as a government - and also personally as a minister - to tell the people of our country that we can imagine a better future, with more equality, less injustice and more sustainability. I am convinced - yes, ladies and gentlemen - that alone we will not be able to achieve it, but together we will. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u116	Thank you, President. Mrs. Belarra, I'm no conspirator. I have come up here to tell you that this agenda is a planned destruction of our sovereignty, our economy and the moral, social and political order. And I'm telling you because the data there has it, it has all of Spain; it's not that I say it, it's that. You have said that it is a social democratic agenda and, at the same time, that it is an agenda of consensus. How is it possible that it is a consensus agenda if it is a social-democratic agenda? [[Applauds]] He also reminded me - and I thank him - that it was the People's Party that adhered to this 2030 Agenda. Yes, of course I do. If that's why we say there's only VOX left, because you're all on the side of globalism. [[applause]] Then he told me about the minimum living wage. Of course, I understand that I don't talk about the agenda, your Ministry is Social Rights and Agenda 2030 and you go to social rights, which I haven't told you anything about social rights. But it's not right either, it's the government's star measure and it turns out that on June 1 comes into force - as you know better than anyone else - Decree 2020 of 29 May, which was expected to reach 840,000 households and 2 300 000 people. And the reality is that, as of today, it has not reached half a million households and we go for 1,200 000 people. I mean, that social shield you're talking about isn't going very well either. [[Applauds]] You have come up here to boast of abortion and affective-sexual education. Mrs. Belarus, aren't you able to understand that there are people we're saying that it's us who want to talk to our children about sex and decide when, when and what to talk to our children about? [[Applauds]] Mrs. Belarra, the children are from the parents. Is he going to be your son, or is he going to be state? Hey, Mrs. Belarus, whose son are you going to have? From the State, from Mrs Celaá, from the 2030 Agenda? [[Applauds]] What we're saying is that we have the right as parents to decide the sexual and affective education of our children, and that's no conspiracy, okay? In short, radical feminism, salon ecology and what they are doing is destroying Spain, and spending and spending and spending on advertising in order to impose global communism. You spend 6 million euros in the Directorate General for Animal Rights to put it in the hands of people who have not stepped on the field in their lives and who have no idea what an animal is. And I'm going to warn you one thing from here, Mrs. Belarra, forget that this animal welfare law comes forward, neither that animal welfare law nor any other barbarity that comes out of the 2030 Agenda. Nothing more. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u117	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that one does not know very well where to begin to answer this retaliatory question of inconsistencies, but we are going to try to put some order. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you speak in your opening speech of foreign impositions, foreign alliances, hidden agendas, globalisms, but I have to tell you that, in fact, those who are subject to foreign interests and powers are quite unrecognizable to you. [[Mrs. Nevado del Campo: Ah, yes?]] We're going to tell the citizens some of those things that don't go on TV that so much whitewash you to see if that's how more people find out. VOX was founded with a million euros of Iranian money, and, as seemed little to them, they were paying for eight months the salaries of Abascal and Espinosa de los Monteros. [[laughs]] The far right lobby that has been behind the impulse of his party, VOX, CitizenGO, which has a Spanish subsidiary - HazteOir -, has in its patronage people like Alexey Komov, who is linked to the Russian oligarchy closest to Putin. [[A honourable Member: Well!]] His guru, Mr Bardají, shares his membership in that think tank, Atlantic Council, with Mr Aznar, a think tank whose donors are well known: Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, Blackstone, the HSBC bank or the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates. [[An honourable Member: Take it now!]] Globalist agenda, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, yours, which has no problems with the economic elites of any country. [[Applauds]] Precisely that bank, HSBC, is famous for helping tax fraudsters and allowing money laundering of criminals. That bank was the first to welcome the institutions to VOX, saying that the coalition between the People's Party, Citizens and VOX was a business. Surely that is why, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, every time you have to press the voting button in this House we find you defending the interests of vulture funds, banks and energy companies and never those of Spanish and Spanish. You are the most disheartened political arm of the economic, national and international powers, ladies and gentlemen, and even if they are whitened on television, we must make it clear. [[applause]] You voted against the rider law that now companies like Glovo refuse to comply with what will be sanctioned, voted against the limitation of rents that bothers vulture funds so much, against the algae top that is limiting the profits of large energy companies and also voted against fuel aid. It is you, ladies and gentlemen, who, every time you have to choose between our sovereignty, our rights and the interests of foreign economic powers, choose the second, and continue to hand them over. Here, lessons to this government of sovereignty and rights, and less to my political formation, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, none. [[Applauds]] And finally, I will tell one thing to your lordship of VOX: the boys and girls are nobody's, ladies and gentlemen. [[Several Members: Ah, right?]] Boys and girls are people, people with rights, who have the right to receive emotional-sexual education, who have the right to know who they are, without anyone telling them that they are sick and that they have to go to conversion therapy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon: To be born]] And we will defend it to the end, with all our strength: human rights also for boys and girls, who are not furniture, ladies and gentlemen, are people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Marshal, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u120	Yes, it is in relation to the allusions made to our group by Minister Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u121	But what article does he mention for it?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u122	The 71st. I ask you to defend us because we believe that there have been some disqualifications that are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u123	Tell me what they are.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u124	Ms. Belarus has said that we are a party led by a drug-trafficking friend, that we use all legal and illegal means for our political activity and has not been called a mafia. [[Mr. Guijarro García: Oh, right?]] I would ask you, Mr President, to withdraw from this parliamentary group, our voters, this House and its decorum, where national sovereignty resides, these allusions and insults to my parliamentary group made by Mrs Belarus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, in order for the Government to explain the measures it intends to adopt to help the Spanish families to reach At the end of the month. [[File number 172/000239]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u125	Let's keep going. [[Protests]] Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain the measures it intends to take to help Spanish families reach the end of the month. For your defence, Mr. Manglano Albacar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u126	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Belarus has gone without withdrawing those words. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen, what a lack of decorum for this House! [[Applauds]] But then I'm going to summarize 175 years of socialism in ten words. I'm sure you'll admire my conciseness and my accuracy. Here goes: The history of socialism are bourgeois posing as proletarians. This has been the case since Marx, a bourgeois who promoted the class struggle against the bourgeois along with his colleague Engels, a capitalist exploiter with a textile factory in Manchester. Since then and to this day the list of socialist leaders belonging to the social class opposed to which they claimed to represent has been endless. Spain, of course, has not been an exception. Without going any further, Mr. Sánchez's place of residence before moving to Moncloa was the highest-income municipality in all of Spain: Pozuelo de Alarcón. Wow! I believe, Mrs Calviño, that we can agree with this analysis and, in any case, if you do not agree, I will be happy to hear your arguments. This contradiction of origin of socialism is the cause of many of his compulsive obsessions. One of them is propaganda. Distracting attention is essential in their political project, it is because socialist success depends on people judging them for what they say and not for what they do or for what they are. In other words, propaganda serves them to be judged for their intentions and not for their results. In the same way that people must believe socialists when they say they are the working class, they must also believe them when they say, for example, that we get stronger out of the pandemic, that they will not leave anyone behind or that they are the people's government. Propaganda is not an instrument for a socialist government, propaganda is the essence of a socialist government; there is no socialism without propaganda. [[Applauds]] Therefore, at the moment of facing a serious economic crisis such as the current one in Spain, your priority, Minister, is not to face reality, your priority is to build a parallel reality. We have presented this inquiry to confront the economic reality that you refuse to admit; even worse, that reality that you strive to replace - propaganda through - in the awareness of the Spaniards. That's why I'm not going to talk to you about people like that in abstract. In the process of accelerated modernization that the PSOE is suffering, they have copied to United We can identify with people. The drawback of talking about people is that they forget people. People are abstract, people are concrete; people are spoken in rallies, people are spoken in their eyes. I ask you, Minister, that in this inquiry you forget the people and think of the people, that you talk to the people, that you take into account the difficulties of the people. I ask you, for example, to respond to a family with two young children who have just faced the costs of returning to school. These expenses have risen by 10% compared to last year, are 600 euros per child, 1200 euros in total for this family. What has that family known about its president of the government? That he took off his tie to save money. Think also of a retiree, the average pensioner in Spain is mileurist. The price of your shopping basket has risen by 15% in the last year and some commodities have risen much more: 110 % sunflower oil, 42 % flour, 32 % pasta, 27 % eggs, 26.5 % milk, 20 % chicken, 16 % bread. If last year that pensioner had 400 euros available to make his purchases every month, he now has 340 euros. What has this retiree known about his government president? That the banks and the electrics are dark factual powers to which the taxes must be raised. [[Applauds]] Think, Minister, of a self-employed person with a small business and think of the bill of light he is receiving on these dates this self-employed person. You had promised a gas stop that would contain the invoice amount. Now with what is found this autonomous is with a line on the invoice that, under the heading of 'Royal adjustment mechanism Decree 10/2022' adds 50% or more to the amount to be paid. What has this self-governing man known about his government president? He wants to preside over the Socialist International. Speaking of the President of the Government, in his recent debate with President Feijóo in the Senate, Mr Sánchez boasted that tax collection had increased by more than 18% over the course of the year. That means that President Sánchez is happy that the family, the pensioner or the self-employed of whom I have just spoken to pay more taxes today than last year, much more taxes. Should we really be glad that taxpayers' pockets are being expressed more and more? Are the Spaniards anything more for you than a lemon to continue to squeeze to the last drop? [[Applauds]] Frankly, they should change their fist and rose symbol for the squeezer and lemon. Mrs Calviño, as far as the Spanish have been concerned this year, they have paid EUR 10 billion more in income tax and EUR 8 billion more in VAT, and they have done so while their purchasing power fell by more than 10% because of inflation. I mean, more taxes, less income, that's what your government has brought to the Spaniards. Therefore, I challenge you to come out here now and repeat what Mr Sánchez said in the Senate, I challenge you to celebrate the extraordinary tax benefits of the State at the expense of the impoverishment of the Spanish and I challenge you to applaud the full pantry of the State in front of the empty pantry of the Spanish families. [[Applauds]] But let us return to your obsession with the construction of parallel realities, Mrs Calviño. Another example of this has been its economic forecasts. Speaking badly and soon, you haven't given one, you've failed more than a trade show shotgun. It is no longer just that in March 2020 he said that the economic impact of coronavirus would be insignificant, it is that in September 2021 he said that Spain will recover its pre-pandemic level by the end of 2021. We are near the end of 2022 and we have not yet recovered the pre-pandemic level. And in November 2021 he said inflation would be transitory and touch the roof in the spring of 2022. It's autumn 2022 and the last three months have had a two-digit inflation. So much error is not chance, it's strategy. It is the strategy of those who consider that their main task is to distract people so that they are not aware of their reality. You are obsessed with catching citizens in their dreams, Mrs Calviño, something inherent in socialism. But I have good news for you, Mrs Calviño, from socialism comes out and then I'll tell you how. First, stop ceasing people who contradict you with data that displease you. He did it with the president of the INE. Bad. The data is not your enemy, nor is it the one who transmits them. If the technical data contradicts you, think that the problem may be yours and not yours. Second, stop sending messages of tranquillity and trust. There is nothing that generates more uneasiness and mistrust than your messages of tranquillity and trust. Being your null credibility, the logical reaction to your messages is to interpret that reality is just the opposite of what you describe. Third, worry more about how Spanish families can arrive at the end of the month and less about who they pose with in the photos. I assure you that the Spaniards will thank you for your interest in your bills of light rather than your photos. Fourthly, focus on attacking the focus of poverty generation, not wealth generation. Before he ceased his president, the INE published a note informing of the increase in the percentage of the Spanish population at risk of poverty or social exclusion. This percentage increased from 27% in 2020 to 27.8% in 2021. Does this concern you, Minister? Why don't you talk about how you're going to make sure that there are fewer and fewer poor people in Spain instead of less rich people? And fifth, attend to the opposition. The People's Party has sent his Government a huge amount of proposals to deal with the economic and energy crisis. It has done so with the sense of responsibility that these difficult times require. Let me remind you of some of these proposals. One, lower the VAT on meat, fish, oil, pasta and preserved meat from 10 % to 4 %. They have plenty of room to do it. They have raised €8 billion more in VAT as of year. Help Spanish families arrive at the end of the month. Two, lower the income tax to less than EUR 40 000. They have plenty of room to do it. They have raised an additional EUR 10 billion in income tax as of year. Help Spanish families arrive at the end of the month. Three, instead of trusting everything to fine, reward consumers, families and SMEs who save energy with direct discounts on the receipt. Help Spanish families arrive at the end of the month. Four, extend the VAT reduction of gas and electricity throughout the winter and not only until 31 December. What is it, Mrs Calviño, that in January, February and March it is not cold? Help Spanish families arrive at the end of the month. Five, preach with the example, make in the government the sacrifices that are required of the Spaniards. They reduce the number of ministries, senior officials and advisers, and reduce spending on propaganda, which this year reaches a record 158 million euros and dedicate these funds to families. Help Spanish families arrive at the end of the month. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. You said last week during the inquiry made to you Citizens, Mrs Calviño, the following: This government has no ideological position against lowering taxes. I do not know if you have heard it well, if you want to repeat it: this government has no ideological position against lowering taxes. Does Mr Puig agree with this statement? [[Applauds]] When the autonomous communities are asking for or have presented initiatives to lower taxes, you have formed an ideological coven to disauthorize them at all levels, to the extent that you yourself have said today: Tax breaks are destructive and there you will not find us. What are we left with, Mrs. Calviño? They have nothing against lowering taxes or they're destructive and they won't find us there? He has said these two things that are radically opposed in the space of a week. They're giving away blind sticks, they don't know what they're doing. Therefore, I beg you, in answering me now, do not lie to me. Do not deny me the ideological prejudices that, of course, you and the rest of the members of the Government have. We know that socialism is incompatible with freedom, but we also know that it is incompatible with the truth. Therefore, if you want to help families reach the end of the month, start by not lying to them; that is, reneging on socialism. Pay attention to me, Mrs. Calviño, from socialism comes out, you just have to propose it to her. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u127	Thank you. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u128	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I'm going to start by thanking you for the inquiry. I think this is the first time I have heard you speak here in the Chamber and I thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain the government's action for four years and three months based on three axes - perhaps you were not here and therefore you do not know them -: fiscal responsibility, social justice and progressive structural reforms looking to the future. That is the road map of our economic policy, but in the last three years we have had to face unforeseen extraordinary situations - and unpredictable, moreover - first marked by the pandemic and now by the war in Ukraine and geopolitical tensions, inflation, normalization of monetary policy on both sides of the Atlantic and disruptions in global supply chains. All this you should know, even if you were not in the Chamber. And this is generating an environment of uncertainty and tension at the international level. Our priority has been to respond to the urgent without losing sight of the important. Just as we did with the pandemic, we have put in place unprecedented measures to support businesses, families and young people, trying to act effectively and decisively, but without losing the long lights, without losing sight of the medium-term objectives. All this explains why we have protected a basis for economic recovery, that we had such a strong recovery in 2021 and that economic growth remains strong in what we have seen in 2022. I will not enter into the incoherent philosophical-political assertions and disquisitions of his intervention or into personal attacks and falsehoods. The truth is, I don't know what they're coming to, I don't think they're going to tell. I believe that the important thing is not so much to talk about opinions or assessments, but about data, which are key to understand where we are and to highlight the absolute lack of substance of their statements, because the Spanish economy in the first part of this year has had strong growth. The National Statistical Institute has confirmed last year's strong growth, with 5.5% increase in GDP, and the annual variation rates in the last three quarters have been above 6.5%. I would be grateful if you would not cast any doubt on the Spanish institutions, institutions as important as the National Institute of Statistics, by the way, to which I have strongly supported in public and private at all times. Moreover, it is the same as the international agencies say. It is a pity that you, like your fellow Members of the People's Party, made these statements in the week when the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, revised the growth forecast for our country upwards to 4.4%, well above the average of world growth, the G-20 and the euro area; and it also expects that the growth of the Spanish economy in 2023 - lower, of course, in a context of slowing down the world and European economy - will double the average of the euro area. Labour market data are spectacular. More than 20 million members of the social security system, we have fallen from the 3 million unemployed barrier and the unemployment rate is around 12%. For the first time, in our labor market quantity and quality go hand in hand. Over the past year, more than one million indefinite jobs have been created in Spain. These are data, they are not opinions. This development is also reflected in temporality rates. We already have a rate that is below 20% and we are reaching figures that have not been known in our country for decades, in which precisely the unemployment rate and the precariousness of employment have been one of the great scourges of our economic growth and, above all, of the well-being of Spanish families. We should all be happy, really. I understand that it is difficult for your political group, which voted against labour reform and which has voted against all the important measures for families, for citizens and for people - as you said - but, man, assume it, it is good for Spain and it is good for Spanish citizens. Join this collective success that I believe we must all be proud of. With regard to external sector data and tax data, once you say that income is down and then you say that income is up and we have plenty of room to spend. The truth is that prudence and fiscal responsibility have been the principles that have guided us since 2018 and that have allowed us to meet fiscal objectives in these years, and all this by responding to a pandemic and now to a war and supporting the productive fabric and families. A responsible government that contrasts with the lack of responsibility of the People's Party, that of its governments in the past and that of its governments in the current context. I will return to this issue at a moment's notice, because I do not want to stop talking about the context of rising prices that most Western economies are facing right now. Proof that it is a phenomenon affecting all the countries in our environment is that, in August, thirteen countries of the European Union recorded an annual rate of increase in the index of prices for harmonised consumption - of inflation, ultimately - higher than that of Spain. In mid-monthly terms, seventeen countries had higher prices than our country. As a result of the measures we have put in place, we have begun to contain the rise in prices, we have managed to reduce inflation by more than 3.5 percentage points and we have already seen that this inflation is beginning to moderate in August. An effectiveness of measures that, by the way, are also positively valued by international agencies. In fact, the OECD in these latest forecasts already predicts that we will continue on this downward path and that by 2023 inflation in Spain will be more than 1 percentage point below the euro area average. I am sorry to say to you, gentlemen of the People's Party - I am not really sorry, I am very happy - that neither the financial markets nor international bodies share their miraculous economic policy prescriptions to address the current challenges. No body, no analyst, recommends lowering taxes on big fortunes as a measure that can help us contain inflation, support growth, support job creation, and, of course, it is not a measure that helps to reduce inequalities. Its ideological partners in the United Kingdom presented the country's largest tax cutback package, precisely influencing big fortunes. You will have seen the international publications, not suspicious, by the way, of being puemites, communists or all that sort of epithets you have used. Titles such as the Financial Times, Bloomberg, Reuters, all echo the great disaster that is assuming the mere announcement of these measures: the strong depreciation of the external pound, the strong increase in the yields of the interest rates of the British public debt, the fall of the stock exchange. The International Monetary Fund yesterday asked to reverse the measures announced by the new British Government, classifying them as irresponsible. Why do you want to get to the government? What do they want, to generate another crisis in the euro area? It is such an irresponsible fiscal policy that you are advocating... The chief economist of the European Central Bank himself, not suspicious of recommending heterodox economic policies, said yesterday that in order to deal with the current situation it is advisable to increase taxes on big fortunes and on companies and industries that are making high profits despite the energy shock. No responsible government can recommend to a country like ours, which has been carrying from the past a high deficit and a high public debt - I would have already wanted to find myself with lower levels of deficit and debt when we arrive at the government - a drop in taxes to the great fortunes, and less in a context of war in which the financial needs of the public sector grow to be able to support Ukraine, to help the most vulnerable families, the most affected industries. We have mobilised around EUR 30 billion of public resources to cushion the impact of the war. We are among the European countries that have mobilized the most resources, including the increase in minimum living income, non-contributory pensions, the transport cost subsidy, the fall in VAT on electricity and gas, the fuel subsidy, the postponement of social security contributions for the most affected sectors, direct aid to the electro-intensive industry and the most affected sectors: agriculture, livestock and fisheries. I understand that their confusing introduction was to try to find an explanation for the fact that they voted against all these measures, just as they did not support measures to contain the price of energy, such as the gas cap. They now say that the VAT on foodstuffs must be reduced, when most of the basic products already have the reduced VAT. They try to throw a smokescreen, because they don't want to talk about tax cuts to big fortunes. That is to say, there is a total inconsistency between the People's Party's speech and what it is actually doing, but there is total coherence in its economic policy agenda, and I recognize that: Let us lower taxes on the great fortunes and dismantle the welfare state. That is what they are doing in the autonomous communities in which they govern and, therefore, that is a very clear vision of what they want for our country. Faced with this, our Government supports strengthening the welfare state, strengthening the education system, strengthening the public health system, strengthening pensions, strengthening the income of families, scholarships for families with less opportunity to cope with the return to school, the payment of mortgages and the payment of electricity bills. The recovery plan is reaching cruise speed. We are also making investments looking to the future that are coming to all citizens, and we are driving those reforms - work, VET, education, science - to make our country one of the most advanced in terms of the business climate. And what is your party's attitude? The truth is that I've never listened to him before, but it's the same one I've been listening to for four years and three months: fighting, generating chasms, calling fear, saying that everything is wrong, voting against all the measures that help citizens and having a single recipe for economic policy that is now clearly seen, which is to lower taxes on big fortunes and dismantle the welfare state. This is what they did when they were in the Government of Spain, leading us to a decade of lost investment and well-being, and to levels of inequality that we have not yet been able to correct. That is what they are doing in those autonomous communities that govern and, ultimately, that is what has characterized the governments of the People's Party. But at least so far they were trying to keep a speech that gave the feeling of having some fiscal responsibility. I am surprised by the clarity and transparency with which they are now even abandoning the fiscal responsibility of a party that is intended to be a government, going against the recommendations of all international bodies and taking where they govern - I hope it is not in Spain for a long time - to a destructive policy that does not bring anything to the citizens of our country. I am sorry - and I am really sorry - that this is the speech of the People's Party, because I would have liked to have had a constructive, homologable opposition with the People's Party of the rest of Europe, with which we could have worked together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u129	Thank you. Mr Manglano Albacar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u130	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I have something new for you: Congress of Deputies is not the source of all knowledge in the world; there are people out of Congress of Deputies who know things. It's true that I've been here six months and knew things before I got to Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you knew anything before you got to Congress of Deputies, but I did know some things. And in the same way that there are people who know things outside of Congress There are also people who exist outside of Congress. What makes me most disheartened about his reply is that he hasn't spoken of people once. He has given a lot of data, he has spoken of many international organizations, but if I were the autonomous, the family, the retired, whom I mentioned in my first intervention and was listening to his reply, I would have asked myself: well, but what does this have to do with me? My bill has gone up and this is unbeatable. The bill denies all the good purposes you can have because you have to pay it, and inflation has assumed that today it has less money than it had a year ago and that the shopping basket costs me much more to fill it. Or also the example I gave you of the textbooks. It is very good that I have left all this data but, please, I told you at first and I insist now, answer people, what answer do you have for them, beyond giving data? He also asked me not to cast doubt on the institutions. I would ask you not to throw away the heads of the institutions, it would be a way of maintaining respect for the institutions. [[Applauds]] Let me now ask you two very specific questions. First question very concrete, and I would like to thank you for answering it almost with a yes or a no: has Spain regained the level of pre-pandemic GDP? Did you get it back today? Yeah? [[Several Members: No!]] The answer is no. Thank you, for answering me around here, to see if the minister also tells me a not so blunt. [[points to the seats on your right]] It is clear that it has not done so, and as long as we do not recover it, all the other forecasts, the quarterly, interannual and other growths are exactly the same because we are poorer today than we were three years ago; we are the only European country that is poorer today than we were three years ago. [[Applauds]] It is true that official figures say that 20 million people work, but the truth is that the wealth that is generated in Spain is less today than three years ago. And for many initiatives that tell me, the truth and the objective is that and, therefore, have not worked, and I judge it by the results that present us, as all Spaniards judge it by the results. By the way, he also spoke this morning about the exits from the crisis and so on. I ask you, please, neither you nor any other PSOE minister will ever speak to us again about exits from the crisis. Why? Because the PSOE has never brought Spain out of a crisis, ever. [[Applauds]] He's got us in the crisis, but getting us out has never got us out! You don't know anything about crises; therefore, have a bit of modesty and don't talk about the exits from crises. Another very specific question that I ask you to answer, if you have no ideological prejudices or whatever: why have you not lowered the IRPF for the lowest rents to date? I just don't really get it! I don't know! It's just that I don't know, the popular bench doesn't know, and half of his game doesn't know, he's asking for it! Yesterday the President of Valencia asked him and basically excommunicated him; these lay excommunications are also done from the left. By the way, how do they have the patio at the PSOE, huh? Valencia, Castilla-La Mancha, Extremadura, at last, not renting him the profit. But if everyone is asking, even in the Basque Country your party has supported two IRPF falls this year, why do you refuse to do so? Please answer me. The spokesman for his party, Mr Patxi López, who I assume is a tax resident in the Basque Country, has benefited from two tax rebates that have been made since the Basque outlaws. Why can Patxi López benefit and someone in other parts of Spain can't? Explain it to me. Don't you defend equality? Well, explain to me why you refuse to do it. It's over now. You were talking about my introduction, my introduction had a basic idea that is to underline the importance of propaganda for socialism, you don't understand without propaganda. This morning he asked what we would be willing to take away to make tax cuts at national level, I say very clearly: 158 million euros that you dedicate to propaganda; 158 million euros. They have doubled the amount devoted to propaganda in the past year. Why aren't you willing to take that off? If propaganda isn't important to you, why don't you want to take off those 158 million propaganda dollars? The truth will come out and, with that, we will leave this evil socialist government behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u131	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u132	Thank you, President. I will draw up three points to conclude this debate. Your answer doesn't surprise me at all. First of all, I am not surprised that it bothers them that we compare the exits from the crisis. Yes, because, of course, at the exit from the financial crisis it took us ten years to recover the levels of GDP, twelve years to recover the levels of employment; in terms of inequality, Spain was not at the pre-2008 levels when the pandemic hit us. Everyone knows that the exit from that crisis was based on cuts in the welfare state, cuts in pensions, cuts in health care, cuts in education, cuts in public investment. Spain is the only European country that had not recovered public investment when the pandemic came with respect to what we had before 2008. So I understand that it bothers them, because, of course, in this case, in 2021 there was already strong economic growth; we have more than twenty million people affiliated with Social Security; we are at the lowest levels, record, unemployment, youth unemployment, temporaryity; and, in addition, public and private investment have allowed us to continue to have strong economic dynamism, porn speaking about the outside sector or the fulfilment of our fiscal objectives. So, I understand that the comparison bothers you, especially when in this very Chamber we had to discuss the absorption of the debt of that bad bank that the People's Party said was not going to cost the Spanish citizens a single euro. [[Applauds]] I understand that it bothers you, but it will allow me to put on the table over and over again the comparison of the response that was given to that crisis and the response that we have given to the pandemic crisis, as well as the response that we are giving to a situation as delicate and complex as that of the new international scenario. Secondly, I also understand that it bothers you to remember that the People's Party has voted against all the measures that help Spanish citizens. The rise of pensions, the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, the reductions of VAT on electricity and gas, the bonus of public transport, the freezing of butane candy or the reinforcement of scholarships... It could be every minute that I have allocated simply by listing the many measures that we have put in place that reach the Spanish citizens, that reach the young people, that reach the autonomous of our country, that benefit the workers and entrepreneurs of the sectors most affected by the war, which you have voted against! They have not supported a single good measure for Spanish citizens in this complex international context! This is what I meant when I said that we would have liked to have a People's Party in Spain that is homologable to those of the rest of Europe, that are aligned with the measures that our Government is putting in place, and that normally help and support the governments of those countries where they do not govern in order to be able to respond to this international challenge. Because in the face of a war, it is usually normal for people to unite, for political parties to unite and for the opposition to loyally support their country's government, which, regrettably, shines out of its absence in the case of the Spanish People's Party. And, thirdly, I understand that it bothers you and that you're trying to throw out smokescreens by saying that if there's a drop... But if this Government has addressed selective tax cuts that benefit the most vulnerable groups, that benefit the workers and that benefit the middle classes. What we are not going to do is reduce taxes on the great fortunes of our country; because it is unfair and because, in addition, it reduces tax revenues at a time when we have to strengthen our welfare state. That's why I always refer to that kind of miraculous recipe that you advocate, which says, "Let's lower taxes because the collection goes up." No, no, you yourself in this rostrum have admitted it. I have read his statements when he was a councillor of the City of Madrid, when he had a political life and some public responsibility: When you lower taxes lower tax revenues. And what you have to determine is how you can achieve economic policy objectives and support society as a whole, support growth and job creation without weakening the welfare state. Because in one case of a war, too, it is normal for all states to strengthen our financial capacity; for example, to support Ukraine, which is currently waging that battle indirectly in defence of European values as well. So, Your Honor, it's not about throwing smokescreens, it's not about feeling uncomfortable because comparisons are made; it's about the People's Party assuming its responsibility as the leader of the opposition in our country and starting to behave responsibly also in those autonomous communities where the government has at the moment, because it's time to row all in the same direction and to face together the challenges of the present and those that come to us in the future. I wish they'd change their attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-28-CD220928.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. This concludes the sitting and is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eleven and fifty minutes in the morning.
