ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. I would like to begin by warmly welcoming the entire delegation of the Courts of Aragon, headed by its President and representing, in addition, all the parliamentary groups that have representation in the Courts. [[Applauds]] We begin with the discussion of the full proposal of the Aragon Courts to reform the Organic Law 5/2007, of 20 April, to reform the Aragon Statute of Autonomy. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Courts of Aragon who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I also welcome, on behalf of the House, to this Chamber. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr José Arturo Aliaga López.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Bureau of the General Courts, spokespersons for parliamentary groups, Members, Members of Parliament, Mr President of the Courts of Aragon, members of the Bureau of our Courts, Speakers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, autonomous senators, dear friends and dear friends, is a special honour for me this afternoon, since I have had the privilege of being committed to the development and application of our statute for almost forty years, in some administrative work, other government and other Members of Parliament, to come up to this rostrum as a member of the Aragonese Courts, accompanied by two other Members of Parliament, and to present to you the proposal that the Aragonese Courts bring for processing before the General Courts. Before proceeding further, I would like to make a special mention of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the Courts of Aragon for proposing that I make this defence. Not in vain, in the Vice-President of the Government he held, the powers of statutory development, whose Director-General accompanies us, are rooted. We also have the honour to begin the process of this amendment, which we bring to you together with our Government's Presidential Department, a process that has culminated in the adoption by the Aragonese Courts of the text we are presenting to you. It is a reform that is not the result of improvisation and that is reflected in the agreements of governability that we sign for the government of Aragon the Socialist Party, Podemos, Chunta Aragonesista and the Aragonese Party, and that we logically intend, if your lords so agree here and in the Senate also, that the next legislature will come into force. It is a statute that, although it began its journey along the slowest path, since it must always have recognized Aragon as one of the historical territories and kingdoms that make up Spain, it has given the Aragonese an instrument to achieve unthinkable development and prosperity back in 1982, when it began its journey. It is a text that has allowed us a clear space in the institutional architecture of the State; it has allowed us to recover identity institutions such as the Aragonese Courts or the Justice; it has allowed us to establish our own territorial model and it has allowed us to draw a map of services and the welfare state for all Aragonese, live where they live. It is a text that has enabled us to recover our identity, our heritage and implement strategic projects based on our resources: paleontology, water, energy, logistics or tourism resources. It is a territory, as we have called it, full of opportunities, thanks to that self-government and that statutory development, guaranteeing the well-being of the whole territory. We are bringing about a simple, precise and limited reform, which refers to two key issues that we have proposed by many of the political groups accompanying this delegation of the Aragonese Courts. The first is to ensure that the abolition of the embargoes and the principle of equality before the law of all the Aragonese that is already enshrined in our Fueros de Sobrarbe, a principle of equality for all the Aragonese and for all the deputies of the Courts of Aragon. The reform also preserves equality between the territories in their representativeness, ensuring the minimum number of 14 deputies in the three territories, especially in the case of Teruel. In this land, plagued by depopulation, with immense possibilities and resources and with a dispersed population, ensuring that equal representation and equal opportunities has been our commitment. On behalf of the Courts of Aragon and its current Government, the Government of Aragon, which has promoted this reform, and on behalf of whom I represent in this case, the Socialist Party and the Aragonese Party, I request your approval to initiate this process for the benefit of Aragon and the Aragonese, whom I represent in these Courts of the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Aliaga. To present the initiative, you have the floor, then dona María del Mar Vaquero Periánez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen and members of the delegation of the Courts of Aragon, Aragon is a part of Spain that has demonstrated successfully and legally over the past forty years the articulation of the autonomy recognized in the Constitution. I think being Aragonese is one more way to be and feel Spanish, just as the rest of the Spaniards feel in Aragon a way to share and feel the present and the becoming daily, remember the past and the common history and project a future together. The elimination of the outbursts of the Aragonese Members of Parliament and the members of the Aragon Government is the first issue that we are presenting to you today with this reform. And we bring nothing but an obviousness, and it is that the representatives of the Aragonese are nothing more than them and we owe and serve them, that we are equal, that we serve all citizens equally and that we are those to whom the citizens yield and in whom the citizens deposit part of their freedom for us to exercise it responsibly, with measure and commitment. The suffocation of deputies has sometimes been treated in a demagogic and opportunistic way by some political actors, conveying to society the message that those who held the status of suffocates could escape the action of justice and were unpunished. Nothing further from reality, drilling is a prerogative that is aimed at defending, in a qualified manner, the freedom and independence of those who have to make certain decisions and is also a way of protecting and unifying, under the authority of a court made up of several judges, the effective prosecution of crimes. That is why, from the Courts, we have wanted to incorporate something that is normally assumed by all citizens into our legal system, that is, the common sense and, paraphrasing words that still resonate in this House, that the law normally reflects what citizens see as normal. The second of the extremes we bring today for this reform has to do with political representation, in particular the appointment of a minimum number of deputies for each electoral district. You already know the reality of Aragon. It is a vast territory composed of three provinces populated in a diverse way and it has been Teruel's that during the last legislature was about to lose a deputy for the loss of its population, but this we can extend to the three provinces and, therefore, we wanted to protect the political representation of all the provinces in our status of autonomy. Teruel is one of those provinces that can have a reflection in many other provinces of Spain, provinces that for decades gave their best, their human capital, and whose people abandoned their peoples that are dying today. That is why we wanted to ensure that all these people are represented today and that the territorial imbalances are not even deeper and that they do not open up more gaps and inequalities. From the Aragonese Parliament we have wanted to incorporate into the norm what the citizens demand of us: that there can be a political representation throughout the territory, that the unity and coexistence of all the Aragonese are guaranteed and also that voices, wills and sensibilities have the capacity to decide in the resolution of all our problems. The province of Teruel, but also the province of Huesca or, as we have said, any other province of Spain can have this situation and therefore this reform is necessary for Aragon and is necessary for Spain. That has been the reason for this reform. It doesn't make us invisible to be few. We do not want any Aragonese to be more than any other Aragonese, but we do not want any Aragonese to be less than any other Aragonese. Madam President and ladies and gentlemen, the reform that we are bringing today by the representatives of the Courts of Aragon is already coming with the previous consensus of all the Aragonese. What we bring here is a demand from all the Aragonese that helps to dignify public life, to protect freedom and political representation and to strengthen our institutions. Thank you so much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vaquero. Finally, also to present the initiative by the Courts of Aragon, he has the word doña Beatriz García González.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to your lordships. I would like to send a greeting to the delegation of Aragon, which here represents all the colors that we have in the Courts of Aragon and reflects a reform, which we are asking for today, the result of the consensus of all. This year we celebrate this 40th anniversary of the status of autonomy, a status of autonomy that considers Aragon a land of free and equal citizens. It is precisely on the latter, on equality, that the reforms that we are presenting in this House at the moment are pivotal. On the one hand, as stated above, the reform that is intended to be approved by these Courts calls for the modification of the representativeness of those less populated territories, that is, not only those of the province of Teruel, as has been said here, which, in this case, could be the most affected, but also those of other provinces. Right now citizens have to be equal, regardless of where they live; they have to be entitled to the same services and, likewise, they have to be entitled to the same representativeness. This reform ensures that all the provinces that make up the territory of Aragon have a minimum of fourteen deputies. This reform was agreed in extremis, through a law that was made in the previous legislature, but we should reform the statute and that is what we want to do. The other reform, in our view, quite important - and allow me the license to give some value to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - is the suppression of the outbursts. Since the beginning of the legislature and since we are in the Aragonese institutions, we have been committed to the abolition of the squabbles, mainly for a number of reasons, and I return again to the principle of equality that I referred to earlier. We believe that the outbursts are an anachronism that really separates society from political representatives and that establishing a specific forum for certain people, for representatives of the Aragonese and also for members of the Government remains out of place. That is why, precisely, this reform, a reform that suppresses the outbursts, has been promoted, so that Members of Parliament and members of the Government stop having a special forum and become the normal forum for all citizens. As I said to you, this reform has been driven by the Government of Aragon and our parliamentary group with different initiatives. As I have said, first of all, we understand that suppressing squabbles is a channel of regeneration and democratic transparency; secondly, that suppressing them brings us closer to society - we have to prevent politicians from being disaffected by citizens and we have to connect with their problems - and, thirdly, and fundamentally, we understand that suppressing them puts into value judicial independence, independence that is often reputed. I began my speech by saying that the statute of autonomy enshrines Aragon as a land of free and equal citizens and Aragon, in particular, is the land of covenants. Therefore, this reform comes from the pact, from the consensus of all the parliamentary groups and precisely from that way of making us the Aragonese, who are conscientious and stubborn, but able to understand why we carry the pact in blood as a norm. Having said that, and as I have explained to you that this reform that we are bringing here is the result of consensus, we call on all of you to vote in favour of this reform of the statute. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I extend a warm welcome to the President of the Courts of Aragon, Mr Sada, Mr Aliaga and Mrs Vaquero and Mrs García, who are taking part in this debate today on behalf of the Aragonese Parliament, as well as to the delegation accompanying them. For this humble deputy, on behalf of the group of voters Teruel Existe, it is an immense honor to participate in this fourth reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Aragon, a basic norm of the legal order that deepens the self-government of my community and emanates from the autonomous will of its inhabitants. This year we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the promulgation of our first statute, which gave the community powers to advance the development of the autonomous state. While, as has been said here, it was a political and historical error to relegate Aragon to the slow path of that development, we were able to overcome it in 2007 with a quiet reform that led to the statute to a more advanced competition framework. Today we discuss some changes that barely modify the text in a few words from 3 of its 115 articles and are of great significance because they affect some of the basic principles of democracy. I would like to assure you that we support this reform without conditions and that we support the promotion of it by the Courts of Aragon. First of all, we are voting in favour of amending Articles 38.2 and 55, which abolish the outbursts of deputies and deputies of the Courts of Aragon and also, in important detail, of members of the community government. Suffrage might have made some sense when democracy in Spain was still fragile, but today is a difficult anachronism to understand. Citizens' representatives in the Chambers are more citizens and there is no understanding of privileges and protection figures such as this, which confers a differentiated status before the courts. Aragon undertakes the path initiated by other autonomous parliaments by suppressing the outbursts of deputies and members of the government. I invite you to follow this path in other Chambers such as this and in other State bodies and institutions. It is essential to end anachronisms such as stifling in order to promote genuine democratic regeneration. Also, since it could not otherwise be, we support the amendment to article 36, which guarantees representativeness in the courts of the three provinces, with a number of seats fixed in fourteen for each electoral district, without the most populated population exceeding three times the proportion corresponding to the least populated. In this way, it is ensured that in a territory such as Aragon, which suffers from depopulation, with deep demographic contrasts and socio-economic imbalances, all its citizens, regardless of where they reside, can make their problems and prospects visible in the Courts of Aragon and that my province, Teruel, has the right to continue to exist and its inhabitants have an adjusted parliamentary representation. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, the gravity of depopulation affects all areas, without reference, also the fundamental right of citizens to be represented proportionately in their institutions. Without a doubt, that today we are debating the need for a statutory armory of representativeness obliges us to make a profound reflection, the same that Teruel has been doing for twenty-three years on the streets. It also obliges us to take territorial cohesion very seriously as a social and political value and as an essential objective for the entire State and the Autonomous Community of Aragon and to implement with determination and rigour vertebrate policies that balance the territorial gap and allow citizens to feel that they are members of a community. For this it is essential that political representation be effective and not merely testimonyal. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past 40 years Teruel has lost three Members of Parliament in the Courts of Aragon, who have won the province of Zaragoza, thanks to the growth of its capital to the detriment of the rest of the community. In the autonomic elections of 2019, an in extremis agreement of the groups of the Courts of Aragon prevented Teruel from losing another seat. This reform is therefore necessary and very useful in order to make progress in territorial cohesion, but it must not overlook the real problem and it is not the solution to that problem, even if they see the right direction. In the face of depopulation, this measure is a bandage on a wound that remains open and that is nothing other than the dramatic situation of an increasingly deverted autonomous community, so much that it affects, as we are demonstrating, its own institutional structure. Much has been discussed, and there are many studies on this, about which is the perfect electoral system and, no doubt, there is no such system, but, among all, Spanish has mechanisms that allow the Spanish territorial reality to be reflected in its Chambers, an indispensable condition for correcting a territorial inequality that is growing and threatens to increase the gap in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to admit that in Spain the lack of cohesion and territorial imbalance is a state problem that threatens general well-being and sustainability. For those who reject these corrective formulas to address territorial diversity in political representation, declaring that the absolute democratic principle is a person, a vote, I will tell you that, indeed, the truly democratic thing is that all the inhabitants of the electoral districts, which in Spain coincide with the provinces, feel represented; that their voice can be heard on equal terms in the organs where sovereignty resides, and that their problems and perspectives receive the necessary attention from the institutions. Just as we claim that all citizens have the right to enjoy decent public services, regardless of where they live, we also demand that their ballots be counted in real terms. In Spain, decades of emptying policies have had a direct impact on the proportion and allocation of seats. Let us hope that today's debate will help to reinforce the need to be aware of this problem and serve to implement real policies that will end this demographic bleeding. We therefore welcome the fact that the statute of autonomy now protects the parliamentary representativeness of its constituencies. The status-governing self-government has been positive for Aragon, has helped to improve the lives of its citizens, and we are convinced that it has also avoided further grievances, but has not been enough to address territorial inequality and the urban rural divide. The economic and productive growth of Aragon and the policies that guide it today continue to widen the gap and concentrate activity and population in the capital and the central region; the most deprived regions continue to face many difficulties in fixing inhabitants and remain sacrificial territories. For this reason, it took advantage of today's debate to demand effective compliance with the statute, to build a more vertebrate Aragon and that in the future we will not have to hold such important debates as this one to apply emergency formulas necessary as a result of years of misguided policies, which have led to the extreme of having to put restraints that prevent the possibility of having provinces with a vote, but without a voice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet my colleagues in the Courts of Aragon, who are present in this House today, and to tell them that, as a Member and also as an oscene, it is an honour to defend my party's position before this initiative and to vote in favour of the reform of the statute of the Autonomous Community of Aragon. Moreover, this debate is deeply special because it coincides with the 40th anniversary of the adoption of this text, since it was specifically on 10 August 1982 when Aragon had, like other regions, its own status of autonomy. With his approval, Aragon stands firmly alongside those who believe in the strength of the great opportunity offered by a country united in diversity. From the Aragon of our time, a diverse Aragon, an inclusive Aragon and some aragonese proud of their traditions and proud of what they are, and from the norms emanating from the text adopted in 1982 in the development of the Constitution we have been built. To this day, the status of autonomy is the main tool that the Aragonese have to exercise the right to self-government and political autonomy, always within the unity of Spain and in accordance with the limits established by our constitutional norm, a regulation that is a reflection of the main democratic values: freedom, equality and justice. I am particularly excited to make a defense of this reform because we are going to approve a claim made by the Citizen Parliamentary Group throughout Spain and everywhere - I am grateful for the work my colleagues have done in the Courts of Aragon - which is the suppression of the sufferings. It is a great news that the Courts of Aragon join the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Cantabria and Murcia, and we hope that many more will soon be joined, and that they will join something that is totally unfair, that is, the embargoes, a privilege that violates the principle of equality and creates a justified feeling of injustice on the part of citizens. In Citizens we have always defended the need to put an end to political outbursts. We believe that Spain is still an anomaly with regard to other European countries in which the people who have this privilege are a much more limited number. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u12	Thanks to the work of our colleagues in all the autonomous communities we are making progress in this matter and we will continue to do so, because, on the one hand, we believe that it is a clear breach of the principle of equality. On the other hand, it is an alteration of the rules, to comply with article 24.2 of our Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law. In short, what we are talking about is to put an end to privileges which, ladies and gentlemen, do away with all of us, politicians, citizens. It is normal that on the street it is perceived as unfair that simply because it is a public office, a different jurisdiction is applied to us. I, as a public office, as a politician, do not want any different legislation to apply to me, I do not want it to be treated in an unequal and privileged way to the rest of the citizens. That is why I think this amendment is relevant. Why? Because we must avoid that disaffection that society currently has in politicians and that goes by reviewing certain privileges, privileges that are anachronistic and unjust, privileges that have to do with the judicial guarantees that we are reforming today, but also have to do with other issues, for example that in the midst of the economic crisis we have renounced, as my colleagues and I have done this very week, to be awarded high-end mobiles, when citizenship is with water around our necks. It is incomprehensible socially that citizens are carrying water around their necks and that we have excessive spending, with public money, which makes us privileged again. I therefore believe that this kind of interference is what generates situations of political disaffection, just as when citizens see that there can be interference between political power and the judiciary. Now that we see every day the muzzle that the Socialist Party and the People's Party are leading, with the blocking and marketing of judges, it is understandable that on the street there are serious doubts as to whether it is not advisable to continue with the privilege of suffocation, that politicians do not judge those judges who are actually being appointed. So, although the PSOE and the PP do a little bit of this theater we're fighting about, we already know that they disagree for the division of judges, they've been doing it for 40 years and that's what's right for you, because you'll be the ones to investigate your pending cases with justice. Therefore, Citizens will continue with our defense, be the judges elected by the judges, as Europe establishes, and let us end this privilege of stifling. On the other hand, it also seems to me to be very correct, necessary and to balance the amendment of article 36 equally in order to ensure that the electoral representativeness in the province of Teruel, affected by depopulation due to ageing and emigration, is maintained. This affects Teruel, this affects other Aragonese provinces, also mine. Many villages in the province of Huesca are virtually unpopulated, but it is also happening in Castile and León or Extremadura. We must therefore make progress in this area. Thanks to this reform, what will be ensured is that the province of Teruel has a special shield so that, despite the loss of population, the presence of representativeness for the benefit of its neighbours will not be lost, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is in these areas where more efforts, more work, more political work we have to develop, in order to balance the imbalances that are currently causing depopulation, the need for access to services, in short, to equalize the inequalities that affect emptied Spain. That is why we will vote in favour of this reform of the Aragon Autonomy Statute and we trust that it will be adopted today, because that means that we are making progress in the area of democratic regeneration in my region, Aragon, and throughout Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u14	I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u15	Thank you, President, and welcome and welcome the deputies of the Courts of Aragon and also the entire Aragonese delegation to this Congress of Deputies. As a Member of Parliament for Zaragoza, it is a pleasure for me to welcome here today the representatives of that Aragonese Parliament that I miss so much, and not only because there was an adapted seat there and I could intervene from the same rostrum as all the others. After the personal point, if I may, we are here today, a month after the 40th anniversary of the Aragon Statute of Autonomy, to discuss here its fourth amendment, adopted unanimously in the Courts of Aragon, and which addresses undoubtedly important matters. The first is the guarantee of a minimum representation of 14 autonomous deputies in the three provinces, particularly in Teruel. This change is necessary, it is of justice, but, as the Member of Teruel Este rightly pointed out, we cannot be satisfied, because, in addition to more Members, Teruel needs more investments, more railways, more public services, more broadband, more support for the SMEs that are located in the territory, in short, more opportunities and more population and we hope that, soon, the Spanish Space Agency too. While we are dealing with this reform of the statute, I believe that our obligation is also to work to eliminate the structural causes of depopulation. The second amendment that we are discussing here today is the elimination of the outbursts of the autonomous Members of Parliament and the members of the Aragon Government. The first thing I have to say is that it is a pride for me that my land is one of the first autonomous communities to carry out this reform. I hope that it marks the direction of other autonomous communities, of the majority that are still lacking to carry out this reform, and also at the state level; we have this matter pending for the deputies of this Congress and also for the senators. Let your ladies and gentlemen be judged by the same judges as the common mortals, not only is it justice, but not only is my parliamentary group in favour of it, but, if I may say so, I think it is no coincidence that this happens in Aragon precisely when we are in the government. The elimination of unjustified political privileges is one of our signs of identity and we therefore welcome the reform that is being brought here today. Now, again, as in the previous case, we do not settle. The problem of corruption and justice has not only to do with politicians being tried by higher-ranking bodies. The existence of certain activist judges who, with one hand, prevent certain politicians from being accused of cases of corruption - let us think about what is going on with Mrs De Cospedal these days - and who, with the other hand, pursue without evidence and give unjust sentences against the transforming political forces to generate hours and hours of defamatory messages in the tertulias and on the televisions, all this, in addition to having to do with the politicians not being judged by the same judge as the common of the mortals, also has to do with a clear composition of the class of the judiciary derived from the dearest procedures of access to it and, also, with a capacity of the right-wing parliamentary minorities - I do not look at anyone, lords of the PP bench - to permanently block and almost seditiously, the renewal of the judicial dome when they lose the elections. All this also has to do with the relationship between corruption and justice. That is why, while we are dealing with this important and necessary statutory reform, it is also our duty to work to eliminate the structural causes of judicial corruption, because, if not, we would be trapping the lonely. [[Applauds]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Hernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u17	Thank you, President. First, I would like to join, of course, in welcoming the delegation of the Courts of Aragon to this Congress and, in particular, my colleague Santiago Morón. [[Applauds]] This reform of the Aragon Autonomy Statute on the elimination of the severances of members of the Courts and the Aragon Government to be tried by the High Court of Justice of Aragon or, where appropriate, the Supreme Court, in line with what has been adopted on previous occasions with respect to other autonomous statutes, and the fixing of a minimum number of deputies with representation in Courts, namely 14 per province, was essential. As for the first question, it was essential because we have a clear example of how the prerogative of afforestation - the prerogative of afforestation - had become an unacceptable privilege and a legal and political distortion which, in turn, had resulted in a democratic degeneration. I am referring to what has been happening with the Government of Catalonia since 2014. A first illegal consultation only merited the conviction of Artur Mas, then president of the Generalitat, for disobedience by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, freeing himself from the penalty of imprisonment for embezzlement of public funds, when later this was claimed by the Court of Auditors itself to return these public funds improperly used in this consultation. In other words, there was privileged treatment of the then President of the Catalan Government. Then, in the trial of the trial, we meet with some defendants finally convicted by the Supreme Court, who claimed as active and passive the competence of the Superior Court of Catalonia, thinking that there they will find an equally privileged treatment for their beating behaviors. And finally, that feeling of impunity we have today. A few days ago, Mr Pere Aragonès publicly stated that Catalonia will vote for independence, in the hope that the suffocation, once again, could serve as a parapet to unthinkable conduct in a modern democracy. By the way, a gentleman named Aragonès, who supports a consultation for the breakup of Spain and who does so from Catalonia, often has this gentleman's mental cocoa. [[Applauds]] The explanatory statement of this reform proposal is correct when it states that suffocation is a legal figure perceived by the majority of society as anachronistic, typical of past times, which today hardly fits into article 14 of the Spanish Constitution, which enshrines the principle of equal citizenship before the law. I add, more so when such a degenerate use is made of it in the Government of Catalonia, as I have already explained. But this statement of reasons has not been so clear as to warn an important detail, that the elimination of the hindrances, in short, is a reversal, a full recovery, to the State of competence to judge and execute the judgment, in accordance with the rules that apply to the rest of the Spaniards. Because here what is relevant to the independence forces was not so much in the referral to the Supreme Court in their case, which, of course, would not be done by system, but in attempts to appropriate the judicial competence of the higher courts of justice by those autonomous governments led by independence parties, who always wanted to pressure and interfere with the much-needed judicial independence. With this reform, therefore, it is fully returned to the judiciary, as the power of the state, its full competence to judge and execute the judged, and this is something that VOX has been maintaining since its foundation. [[Applauds]] With regard to the second question of reform, it is equally clear that depopulation can never mean the nullification of any representative political capacity and influence of a province, and we also think that this reform is appropriate on this point. In short, we will vote in favour of the reform proposal. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u18	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by congratulating the delegation of the Aragonese President of the Courts of Aragon, as well as all the Aragonese colleagues who are in this Chamber today and the three representatives who have just spoken. If I may joking, Mr Aliaga, I hope that it is only circumstantially your intervention on behalf of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Today, the Courts of Aragon, on the 40th anniversary of the statute, bring us an initiative that has a double aspect. On the one hand, the determination or fixing in the number of 14 deputies per province. It is clear that in Aragon we have a territorial problem, which passes the time and is not corrected; it is true that this is a step, but believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be a much more important step if economic resources were allocated. Yesterday we had bad news, the Secretary of State said that there will be no money to balance territories for empty Spain as long as the crisis does not give way. And we would also like to see those resources for the most unbalanced territories within Aragon also activated from the Aragon government. We agree with that approach and will therefore vote in favour. With regard to the second question, the question of drilling is not the first time that the question of drilling has been discussed here; it has also recently raised controversy. I, from what I have heard in this rostrum, thought the debate was going to be a little more moderate. I'd like to make a few clarifications. This does not come from so many years ago, but it has basically been questioned over time, but it was the intrusion of Podemos and Citizens who put this issue on the table, and that is fair to recognize it, up to there, but what cannot be is to ask for something to be deleted and, at the first change, when you have problems, to use it. I am referring to the noisy show that Podemos presented in 2019, when he shielded three of his deputies on the Alcoa issue, putting them in the Permanent Chamber, or when the Treasurer of Citizens had problems and was included in a list in the Senate to toast for possible problems. A little more coherence, ladies and gentlemen, in maintaining speeches. [[Applauds]] There can be no doubt that there are two clear positions with regard to the embargoes, one is that of those - and it has been said here - who understand it as a privilege, but there is a jurisprudential position, ladies and gentlemen, very important, which says that this is not a privilege, but the defence of the general interest, is to shield the institution of the parliamentarian with regard to possible attacks, in this case, on the judiciary. I want to remind you of something that no one here has mentioned, Spain is one of those countries in which, strangely, public action exists, and here certain parties are very given to use it. I will give you just one example, in Murcia there are forty-four party complaints and there are forty-one filed complaints, but in the meantime the controversy is generated. In any case, by placing the debate in its proper conclusion, the word privilege, privilege, privilege has been repeated. I don't know if giving up an instance is a privilege or not. In any case, we are aware that this is a demand for citizenship and, therefore, we are prepared to discuss it. Because what we have not just understood and what it is not possible to understand is the following, that depending on the Member's origin a different regime or another is applied to him. I believe that what it would have to be is that all Members of Parliament will be subject to the same jurisdiction. And that's what we've been asking Sánchez, because I want to remember when in 2018 - and moving forward with Citizens - he manifested in this rostrum that in sixty days he would bring about a reform of the question of drilling, or when in 2019 he appeared with Pablo Iglesias - then he could already sleep - and they said that in short dates they will bring about a reform of drilling. The case is that after three years here follows the story and not a millimeter has moved the issue, and I believe that this is a question of those that must be resolved thinking about the whole nation and the politicians that make up it. In conclusion, there has been an appeal here for consensus, and it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that my land has always set a good example of being able to forge agreements. We carry it in DNA, it's our story; I always tell that we were able to choose a king by consensus, something that, you will understand, is not simple. In any case, tomorrow when you come back - we stay here - to your territory, I suppose you will express satisfaction with what is approved today, I can understand it, but believe me that this Member and my parliamentary group would have liked it - and we will be working on it and the President of my party recently offered agreements to the President of the Government of Aragon on issues, in our opinion, much more substantial - here an agreement in which we were able to convince Sánchez of the need for a joint Olympic Games, of a battery factory that is necessary for Aragon, that the central crossing will recover, that the Spanish Space Agency or the Public Health Centre will remain in Aragon, or if I may be allowed something much more elementary, that is currently happening in Aragon as in the rest of Spain, which is a serious economic crisis, with a galloping inflation that affects especially Aragon, because it is higher than in the rest of Spain, and requires a reduction of taxes and requires important economic aid and measures that are not being taken. I insist, that is why my party will fight, in the coming months we will be proposing, as - I said - announced the president of my party and, for my part, nothing more. Thank you very much and I wish the delegation of Aragon a good return. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sancho Íñiguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the President of the Courts of Aragon, Javier Sada, the entire Aragonese delegation, the senators, the senators and the Turolenses who are in the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, seeing the last speeches, I would like to move, first, that it is a happy day for the Aragonese and for me, I do not know if we have all been able to feel the same. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 10 August our statute of autonomy came into force for forty years. It will be the fourth partial amendment following the reform of 1994, 1996 and 2007. During these four decades of self-government, the status of autonomy has given us the necessary tools for the success and modernization of the Aragonese society. We would hardly be talking about our rural environment, about the possibility of living in it, if not for what has meant status and autonomy for unpopulated areas, poorly called emptied, because they were emptied by those who did not believe in them. But if there's anything that identifies us above all in Aragon, it's for our culture of the pact. In the ten elections to date, no political formation has ever obtained an absolute majority in our territory. We are the only autonomous community in all of Spain that has not seen how a political party has obtained more than 50% of the seats. This fact has led to our land being politically very plural and the negotiation being, as I say, our sign of identity. At present, eight groups form the parliamentary arc of the Courts of Aragon and the eight voted in favour of this draft reform of the statute of autonomy. There is therefore unanimity of all political parties, of the 67 members and autonomous deputies. In short, the values of pact, loyalty and freedom to which the Statute of Aragon refers are more present in this reform and are part of our sign of identity, something that prides us. This reform process that we take into consideration today in Congress started two years ago, in August 2020, with a joint order from the Vice-President of the Government of Aragon, Arturo Aliaga, and the President's Counsellor, MaytePérez, in which they committed themselves to suppressing the outbursts and maintaining a minimum representation of 14 deputies per province. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the abolition of the suffocation of the members of the Courts and of the Government of Aragon, it should be noted that this is a legal figure that both Aragonese and Spanish citizens perceive as anachronistic, more typical of past times and which today is hardly justifiable. That is what other autonomous communities have understood with statutory reforms that go in the same direction. If the institutions want to counter the current disaffection towards the political class, nothing better than doing so by legally equipping us with our citizens. The second objective of the reform proposes the amendment of article 36 of the current statute of autonomy to guarantee a minimum of 14 deputies per province, in order to ensure the maintenance of the representativeness of the least populated provinces, and more specifically of the province of Teruel, consolidating a balanced territorial model that adequately combines territorial and population criteria. Aragon is one of the autonomous communities that is suffering most from the depopulation process, where almost half of our territory has a very low population density. In addition, we have the peculiarity that only in the city of Zaragoza 52% of our total population is concentrated. If we add to this the inhabitants who live in the rest of the municipalities, according to the data of the Aragonese Institute of Statistics, on 1 January 2022, almost 73% of the Aragonese reside in the province of Zaragoza, 17% in the province of Huesca and just over 10 in the province of Teruel. Therefore, the institutions and the public authorities must be aware of the serious phenomenon of depopulation. Measures such as this reform will help to prevent the provinces of Huesca and above all Teruel from losing political representation. I'm going to tell you a personal anecdote. When it became known that Teruel province was losing a seat in front of the autonomic elections of 2019, I was at a cultural event in the city of Teruel. As you can imagine, the expectation of the media and the concern and anger of the people we live there was maximal, as the feeling was that in the end everyone would stop at the capital, the big city. I want to value this because it means what politics is for Teruel. For this reason, a reform of the electoral law was carried out in 2019 to prevent Teruel province from losing seats due to population loss, remaining at 14. In short, 14 as a minimum number and 25 seats per population, and the correction coefficient was changed from 2.75 to 3. If anything I can say about my province, which is Teruel, is that it is as extensive as it is beautiful, with enormous potential. Our territory is the tenth largest on the peninsula and although we are few, we are not few. We consider ourselves privileged, because the stars, the firmament are in love with Teruel. Teruel is the mirror of the stars, where they look and comb for the enjoyment of all territories; a geology, a paleontology, a mudéjar worthy of seeing and touching. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. As our President, Javier Lambán, has pointed out on several occasions, Aragon is a millennial political community to which the statute and self-government have been wonderfully well felt. The Government that presides is characterized by the defence of the general interest, by the promotion and improvement of living conditions, as well as by the elimination of inequalities, making our land a more prosperous and developed community. Therefore, there is no better tribute to our status, in its four decades of life, than to give the green light to a reform that updates our regulatory framework and contributes to strengthening the rights of Aragonese citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a priceless pride for me to defend the statute in the General Courts. Thank you, everyone, thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Sancho. [[Mr Bal Francés asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Bal?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u23	For allusions, according to Article 71.3. For Mr Suárez Lamata, there have been offences against my parliamentary group. It seemed to me to understand, it seemed to me to listen I don't know what maneuver he did on his Citizen Day to hide in the Senate I don't know what things from the Citizen Treasurer. Mr. Suárez Lamata, what I can tell you is that, in fact, you don't even know what things are, because there was nothing; no Treasurer of Citizens has ever taken possession as a senator. What I can tell you is that there has been a senator, treasurer of the People's Party, whom I helped put in jail. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u24	Thank you, Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u25	We continue with the agenda item on taking into account the proposal for a law of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, for the establishment of temporary energy levies and credit institutions and credit institutions. Before we begin the debate, we shall dismiss the delegation of the Courts of Aragon and the three Members who have been pleased to present the initiative from the Courts. Thank you very much for your presence and for your interventions. Thank you very much, President of the Courts. [[Applauds]] With regard to the proposed law, I should like to inform you that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has requested that this proposed law be upheld. For the presentation of the initiative by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please, so that we can resume the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, extraordinary times require extraordinary efforts. That is what the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to this rostrum today: a proposal for banks and large energy companies to bow their shoulders, and to do so through a temporary contribution in line with the social needs of the moment. Therefore, we present this proposal for a law based on constitutional principles. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. What is unconstitutional is to systematically block the renewal of the members of the judiciary as you do. [[Applauds]] That's unconstitutional. The text that we are debating today defends the general interest and promotes equal economic efforts to address the uncertain world economic situation; a situation that has triggered inflation due to the war in Ukraine, with the blackmail of Putin to Europe of gas supply cuts; a current context that socialists are concerned about and occupy us, but without defeat or resignation, because Spain has solid foundations. This is indicated by the main national and international bodies which, despite the difficulties that have arisen, foresee for Spain the highest rate of growth among the major economies of the European Union for these two years. So, ladies and gentlemen, we can see how during the pandemic the Spanish Government, the socialists and the progressives proved to be on the side of all citizens, especially those who needed it most. [[Applauds]] And we again demonstrate this in the face of the energy crisis and the costs of war, even though some prefer to put sticks on the wheels and stones on the road. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of the harmful effects that inflation causes, in addition to creating social tension; and therefore, even though inflation growth is international in nature and the scope of domestic action is limited, our Government is taking action and making a maximum effort to contain the deterioration that inflation causes on the purchasing capacity of citizens, especially those households with the most difficulties and lower incomes. For them, social bonds have been strengthened; aid to families and self-employed; it has been reduced to 80% of the taxes on the bill of light; free bonds and discounts on public transport. There have been reductions in fuel, in addition to aid to companies, the postponement of social security quotas, among many other measures, precisely to maintain the competitiveness of our country; all of them, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, with the vote against the right of this country. [[Applauds]] Moreover, without any proposal from Mr Feijóo, nor a proposal. First, he presents the President with a blank report, and today he presents a plagiarism. The truth is that these gentlemen of the People's Party are late and bad. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proactive and economic effort places Spain among the countries with the largest budget invested in terms of GDP to protect households and businesses from rising energy costs; a government that protects it. However, ladies and gentlemen, while a majority goes through difficulties with price escalation, a minority concentrates more income and wealth at the expense of that majority, as the economic reports attest. We note that inflation also generates winners and losers, widens inequalities and deteriorates social cohesion; an intolerable reality that socialists want to correct. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, stand idly by. The public authorities must intervene to correct this anomaly. We must ensure that all economic actors make a solid contribution to the collective effort that causes a price spiral like the one we are experiencing. It is an intervention, ladies and gentlemen, which justifies the initiative we are proposing for your consideration today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing solutions for short-term periods, because the Banco de España foresees a significant slowdown in inflation by 2023, thus confirming the strength of the Spanish economy, and that we move in the short-term rather than in the structural sphere. The cost of responding to the economic and social consequences of the war and the circumstances we are living in is much higher than the increase in tax collection from inflation, and the current tax system shows that it is not a sufficient instrument to ensure for itself that the income pact is balanced. That is why we propose the establishment of temporary benefits of a non-tax nature, precisely to guarantee legal certainty. And what we are proposing for those sectors is precisely because of the current crisis situation: they are seeing how their benefits go off, while families see how the receipt of the light and the monthly payment of their mortgages rises, and they are increasingly struggling to reach the end of the month. Ladies and gentlemen, really, who can be against this initiative? Who can be against helping those who suffer the most by sharing some of the billionaires and growing profits that are being pocketed by banks and big energy, derived precisely from the situation that is suffocating families? Who? Who? Who? [[Applauds]] I would remind you that they are also temporary charges, to satisfy precisely the years in which there is an advantageous situation for these sectors. We simply ask those who can now do more to contribute to the collective effort with the aim of achieving a fair and equitable sharing of the cost of inflation, to value solidarity among all Spaniards and to help ensure precisely the general well-being of the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, the choice of encumbered sectors is more than justified. It's social justice. They are sectors in a good economic position, benefiting from the current situation. Energy revenues are increased far above their costs, precisely because of their position of advantage in setting prices on the market. The six energy companies listed by IBEX quadrupled profits as early as 2012, and the figures presented in the first half of this year have hit their own records. On the other hand, in order to control inflation, the European Central Bank promotes as monetary policy the rise in interest rates; a measure from which the sector of credit institutions is particularly benefited, without having to do any work or effort. On the one hand, because it is one of the sectors least exposed to the impact of rising energy costs and raw materials, and, on the other, because citizens will have to pay higher interest in exchange for loans granted at lower prices at a time far different from the current one. In fact, the five banking groups that are part of the IBEX 35 achieved 20 billion profits in 2021 - according to CNMV - and in the first half of this year the profits of the large banks for activities in Spain have grown by 36% every year, minus the capital gains. In short, ladies and gentlemen, both sectors - financial and energy - enjoy without any effort an important economic advantage derived from the circumstances, at the expense of customers and consumers. Furthermore, let us not forget that they are sectors that have benefited directly or indirectly from public regulation or the injection of public resources at adverse times. They will understand that it is fair to ask them for an effort now that they enjoy a situation that favors them, an effort that is less than it was in their day to help them. In addition, this solidarity contribution that we make is consistent with the corporate social responsibility objectives that these energy companies and banks claim to be defending. This is therefore a great opportunity for them to live up to their commitments. [[Applauds]] In short, the effort we are asking for is proportionate and does not affect either its viability or its investment capacity. To these companies, the taxes we propose to them do not mean that they will not lose profits, amounts which will not be deductible in the company tax and which cannot be passed on to customers or consumers. If they do, ladies and gentlemen, they will be punished by 150%. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt about the effective control that the CNMC and the Banco de España are going to take. Why are some of you engaged in questioning some official bodies? Why? But also, why do some try to deceive consumers by saying in the invoices that the price of the gas cap is a government tax and that it has raised the prices of light, when the reality is that it has saved consumers more than €2.3 billion? In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about fair contributions, justified constitutionally and subject to the general interest; not extravagant measures; measures that go in line with what the European Commission proposes, which only enhances the ultimate objective of this initiative. And, ladies and gentlemen, do not be afraid, if something is to be adapted to what has been adopted in Europe, it is possible to do so in the very process of this initiative. So here are no equidistances; it is time to decide which side they are on, whether on the side of the people who suffer or on the side of the people who take advantage of those who suffer. So vote in favour of dealing with this bill and, ladies and gentlemen, let us start a debate open to constructive improvements and contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, the market cannot act on its own to ensure fairness and solidarity in costs. Politics can do that. So let's make it possible. We ask them a yes, because it is justice that we are asking them. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Echenique Robba.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the big Spanish energy companies won in 2012 - when families were already beginning to pay a very high bill - about €9 billion. The extraordinary charge that we are subject to today's debate in this House is estimated to raise some 2 billion dollars a year from this sector. A sector that is allowed to pay EUR 35,000 a day to Mr Sánchez Galán does not seem to have any problems with financial sustainability, and after this tax he will not have it either. [[The Lord]] The Spanish bank, in turn, won almost 20 billion euros in 2012. The dizzying rise of the Eurobor in recent months is not only going to make a mortgage of 180,000 euros to thirty years go from having a monthly share of more or less 600 euros to almost 800. In addition, it will further increase the bank's profits. The tax proposed today is estimated to raise 1.5 billion a year. Nor does it appear that it will endanger the financial sustainability of the bank. At a time when only two royal decrees give the Government no less than EUR 15 billion to protect families and businesses, it seems obvious that two sectors that are going to see their profits significantly increased - one by the brutal rise in gas prices and the other by the brutal rise in euribor - will have to shoulder to help the country as a whole. To be truly patriotic is that, not to get involved in a giant flag and to shout 'live the king'. However, we have heard that the bank has already threatened to bring this law to the Constitutional Court. Indeed, the Constitutional Court. On few occasions as today it will be so evident the alignment between the vote of the PP deputies in Congress and the maneuvers of the PP judges in the judiciary. Today it is much better understood than other days that controlling the judiciary not only serves the PP to try to get out of their corruption cases unpunished and to pursue without evidence their political opponents, it also serves to help their friends at IBEX 35. Since 2014 in Podemos - and from before other forces of our political space - we have defended that austerity - the evil so-called austerity - was a neoliberal recipe, cruel and failed. However, this recipe had strong bipartisan support. Let us recall the reform of article 135 of the Constitution in this House. Those of us who said at the time that we had to end austerity were called anything less beautiful; we were populists, we were Bolivarians, we wanted to turn Spain into Venezuela and we had to be deported immediately to North Korea. The COVID-19 pandemic has had to arrive so that nothing less than the European Union will bury austerity forever in the wasteland of history; it has had to arrive United We can get to the Government of Spain to have for three consecutive years the most expansive spending ceilings in the history of democracy. On the other hand, in our 2016 program we had already ended the fallen benefits of the electric sky. Again we were called populists, Bolivarians and they said we wanted to turn Spain into Venezuela. And there comes the invasion of Ukraine by Putin and nothing less than the European Union is defending exactly the same as we are defending, putting a stop to the infra-marginal energies, that is, to put an end to the fallen benefits of the sky. Finally, we have taken the whole legislature and beyond defending that we must raise taxes to the big corporations. When we said this, we were told again that we were Bolivarian populists. Well, now the European Union is defending a minimum tax rate of 15%, an effective tax rate on companies, something that we actually carry on the electoral agenda, and today we are bringing here, in this House, nothing less than the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, an extraordinary tax on energy and banking. Mrs Von der Leyen, of the European People's Party, and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, welcome to this contubernion of Bolivarian populists. Despite the bad press, here we have the custom of making sensible proposals to improve people's lives. It's a shame you haven't stopped by before, but it's never too late if the bliss is good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. President, I have nothing more to add to the clear and rigorous explanation given by comrade Patricia Blanquer on a subject, the prosecutor, as arduous as it is vital for everyone. In addition, I think my partner, Pablo Echenique, has been able to calibrate her scale of everything we are playing with this initiative, which is a lot. For my part, I will try to give the defence of the same a certain interpretation of the income pact, a concept that is repeated with some profusion in this legislative proposal and that in these strange days and months necessarily refers to ensuring a fair and balanced distribution of an effort that has occurred. This is not the time to analyse the geopolitical causes of this common effort to which we are all bound, but it is never more important to remember that Europe is now immersed in this crossroads because it has placed its common foreign and security policy in the hands of the American partner. Nor should we forget this. In any case, and resuming the argument, if something has shown us human history in its recurring effort to face periods of crisis and uncertainty, it is that, in the absence of rules and conventions, when the law of the jungle prevails, it does not win the most suitable according to the Darwinian precept; no, ladies and gentlemen, in the human jungle the powerful, the exploiters, who have never stopped winning. We have already seen a more or less obvious observation of this principle in our country over the last few months. Despite public policies implemented by the Government, workers have already suffered a widespread loss of purchasing power as we had not seen in decades. Today, while we support an annual CPI above 10%, the average wage increase of collective agreements signed to date is barely 2.6%. At the same time, the evolution of the GDP deflator shows how business margins have remained unchanged in recent quarters or even growing in some sectors, even growing. That is to say, while there has been a relative impoverishment of the country because of our atavistic need to import energy in a context of high international prices, what we have seen has already begun to happen other times: the usual ones are paid and the usual ones are gone by rositas. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply untenable, not just because it is socially unjust, but because it is unsustainable in economic terms. At a time when we are still emerging from a previous crisis, with a weakening of domestic demand that has been driving in recent months, it would be a real catastrophe, even more so when the monetary authorities are in the middle of a rise in rates. Although inflationary tensions are coming from the supply side, the reaction of the Central Bank will necessarily lead to a cooling of the economy and could very well place us in the foreground of the dreaded stagnation, that is, economic stagnation with inflation, if there is no urgent implementation of public policies that correct this trend and guarantee the purchasing power of families. The initiative that we are discussing today - an extraordinary burden on the big energy and finance - is just one of these policies, and I say it well just because, despite the government initiatives already launched, it is clear that we still have a long way to go to ensure what we said at the beginning - and I stress - the fair and balanced sharing of an effort that has occurred. In preparing this initiative I have been looking for some historical precedent that could help me explain not only the gravity and urgency of what we are playing, but also the scale of the reforms that are required. I think I found it in Mr. William Beveridge, in his famous two reports published in the years 1942 and 1944. In the same way this liberal economist - the English liberal, do not confuse you - defended the need for the British State to guarantee a minimum level of welfare to all citizens, not only in the spirit of ensuring social peace, but also as a mechanism to gain productivity and increase the economic power of the United Kingdom by ensuring good health and training of its working base. These reports served as a guide for the Labour Executive in the first post-war Government to begin the construction of what we today call the welfare state. These reports have also passed into history as the codification of the so-called Social Democratic Pact, although strictly not designed as such, i.e. they were never agreed between different agents, but were drafted by a more or less visionary mind and implemented without more by the Clement Attlee government from 1945 onwards. Not by chance, that same year represents the beginning of what many refer to as the golden thirty years of capitalism. In any case, we continue to talk about the pact as long as the historical perspective allows us to interpret it as a fundamental agreement between the labour and capital forces. Well, that is, no more or less, ladies and gentlemen, the nature of the pact that we are defending today. It is a question of revisiting and updating its terms to place it in the 21st century, that is, enriching it with the social advances that we have experienced in these years in the heat of feminism, for example, and of course incorporating the ecological perspective at a time of accelerated climate change. Today, in particular, we are discussing two very specific tax measures in the context of this great agreement to which I referred earlier. Without a doubt, prosecutors are among the most appropriate tools to ensure a balanced redistribution of resources, but they are not the only ones; when we talk about intervening markets, when we propose to go to the setting of maximum prices, we continue to move exactly in those same parameters. As you know, our political space has been proposing this kind of exceptional measures for some time - in short, for some time now, many of you here today have called us all - but since the European Commission and its President, Mrs Von der Leyen, have begun to embrace this language, at least you are no longer seen as being so fundamental. Says an old saying that the darkest moment of the night is always before dawn. Beveridge wrote his first report in the battle of England, under the Nazi bombs. Today, as before, we are at a time of great uncertainty, although fortunately it is not bombs that fall on us. In any case, I invite you to learn all this lesson that history gives us and, if not at least, to spread some optimism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u31	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López, to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u32	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a new recipe for the only medicine that can apply this government, which is to saber at taxes to the Spaniards. We are told that this tax will be paid by banks and energy companies. They disguise it that way, but those who are actually going to pay this tax are the ones who pay all the taxes: the Spanish. This year there are 22 billion over-collection by the Government, with the Spanish suffering from inflation. While all Spaniards have to tighten their belts to make the shopping basket, pay for petrol or diesel, put on gas or light, the Government of Spain collects an additional 22 billion, and now 5.5 billion euros with this new tax. All that, for what? To improve public services? No, no, It has cost us 24 billion euros from the general budgets of Spain its negotiation with Esquerra Republicana and with the PNV; 500 million euros it costs us every meeting of what you call table of dialogue and I call table of submission in Catalonia; 20 billion to Mrs Montero to make an equal plan; 800 million euros of over-financing this year for Spanish Radiotelevision, without knowing what plan to do to improve public television or radio; 700 million through the MEF of over-financing for Catalonia, which takes 41% of the funds when it has 14% of the population. People are sick of paying money for you to pay blackmail and political tolls, so get busy managing and stop squandering all the Spanish money. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u33	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Echenique, you've been fantastic, you've said what you always say. There were others who met, week yes, week no, in Moncloa with the powerful and did not leave Moncloa until six months ago, when they changed their advisors to Moncloa. Now we see a coherent intervention by Podemos and an amazing PSOE about removing the rich to give it to the poor. Of course, I agree with the title and the objectives they set here, because they say: exceptional non-tax tax on sectors whose profit margins can be more favoured by price escalation. But that's a lie! It is not a tax on profits, it is not on all sectors or those that have more profits; it is on sales, on revenues, that are not the same as profits. Secondly, it is not for all sectors, because the rest of the IBEX companies, these construction companies, these telecommunications companies, do not have an impact on them. Thirdly, in Italy, for example, they have done so on the benefits. I'm on it. I have a series of doubts. Will this measure, coupled with the rise of the Euribor, further restrict credits? Because that's going to affect the economy and it's not going to be analyzed. Why these sectors and not others? What impact does it have on the competitiveness of our international companies, which are going to be in different conditions? Why is it that some operators are taxed in the energy sector by excluding others who have had extraordinary benefits? Is there legal certainty? And if not, why didn't they send it to the Council of State as a bill? As far as investments are concerned - and I will end immediately, Mr President - I am concerned about one thing as a canary and as a supporter of the ecological transition - I imagine that those of VOX are not, but I am - which is that investments in renewables are being discouraged by taxing all technologies equally, as we are in the energy transition. Finally, the financing of the autonomous communities is being negotiated, where the future system of autonomous financing and, in turn, the investment reserve of the Canary Islands may be affected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u35	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u36	Term, I promise you. What do you mean? That today we will support it because we agree with philosophy, but depending on the processing and how it is modified, we will be able to change the vote or make the amendments corresponding to the Canary Islands REF. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u37	Thank you. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Botín protested against this tax and Mr Garamendi had the bad taste of comparing it with Nazi persecution. It's clear they don't want to put on their side. But what is the origin of these big companies, what is the origin of these big fortunes? Do they fulfill the myth of the businessman risking his own money? The truth is that the IBEX is full of companies that benefited from political power with the Franco dictatorship and others that originated or benefited from the privatization process that began by the PSOE and culminated in the PP. In 1985 there were 130 public enterprises in Spain, 850 of which were subsidiaries, and years later virtually none of them existed. In the field of energy, for example, Repsol and Endesa were public companies; Gas Natural benefited from the purchase of a public company such as Enagas. In the area of banking, BBVA absorbed the small amount of public bank left in the Spanish State, and others, many others, benefited from absorbing savings banks, ahead of rescue from the public sector through around €80 billion. This is the origin and consolidation of many of IBEX's fortunes that they now do not want to put on their side. I do not want to make any praise of Spanish public enterprises, some of which, like Renfe, Adif or AENA, are no example at all, but I want to point out that the ruling class in the Spanish state, first, remains the public; second, privatizes the benefits of this former public sector; third, if they ever break, they benefit from the rescue, and fourth, when you ask them for a greater contribution they call you Nazi. It would be more direct and fair to regain public control of these nationalised companies. This would allow, first, price control and the fight against inflation; secondly, the profit limit; and thirdly, to democratically direct a necessary energy transition that is already late and cannot be left in the hands of a private sector that outweighs profit and speculation. In short, we are in favour of these taxes and even more in favour of expropriation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u39	Thank you. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u40	Pick it up on. Thank you, President. Today we will support the consideration of taxes on banking and electricity to start its application. We will do so because we are again faced with an economic and social crisis that puts us back in front of the big question: who will pay for this crisis? We are clear who should pay it: the rich, the big companies, the electric companies, the oil companies and the banks, and we say it clearly, without half ink and without ambiguity. In 2008, citizens paid for their well-being for the crisis generated by financial powers. While the banks were rescued, the people were evicted; while the rich accumulated wealth, the citizens were impoverished; while the big companies made cash, the workers suffered dismissals. Some pretend that it didn't happen, but we have memory and the working and popular classes have it too. That is why it is now up to them to pay all those who did not in the previous crisis, and that is why these taxes are so necessary. But that's not enough. PSOE and Podemos, as almost always happens in this government, present partial, temporary and insufficient measures. They are measures that go in the right direction, yes, but that remain half. Ladies and gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos, you are proposing a temporary tax on two-year electricians with tax burdens of 1.2% on the net amount of turnover. With this, they intend to raise $2 billion a year. Ladies and gentlemen, little, very little. And, yes, we want to increase the volume of the tax, because only in the first half of 2022, only from January to June, the electrics have obtained profits of more than EUR 11 billion. You intend to raise 2000 in one year, while they earn 11,000 in just six months. I repeat: little, we think very little. And the same goes for the bank tax. PSOE and Podemos propose to apply an extraordinary tax - only for two years - of 4.8% of the margin of interest and commissions. With this they plan to raise 1.5 million annually. In 2012, the bank received more than EUR 20 billion in profit, which will be substantially increased following the rise in rates decreed by the European Central Bank and which will increase the interest on mortgages for millions of families. All this, not to mention the €60 billion that still owes all the citizens of the bank bailout they never paid. You owe us 60 billion, you earn more than 20 billion a year, and you just want to pay them a tax that collects 1.5 billion. I repeat again: it is little, ladies and gentlemen, it is very little. Therefore, because there is still a huge margin, we ask that these taxes be permanent, not temporary, and with greater tax burden. Because electricity and banks can contribute much more, because they are getting rich at the expense of everyone and because it is social justice that those who have the most are the ones who pay the most. We therefore propose these changes during processing, to make a permanent and broader tax. Because, ladies and gentlemen, above what Mr Imaz, Mr Galán or Mr Garamendi think, we care what people need. Mr Josu Jon Imaz - whom we know well the Basques and Basques -, who collected €4.24 million only in 2012, dares to threaten the government for these taxes. Mr Garamendi - which we are also well aware of - has also done so, and has warned the Government of the consequences of applying these taxes. All of them, the political right, the business, the media and the judiciary - who, in addition, have no doubt, will intervene to try to stop these measures - tear their clothes when from the left we demand to intervene and regulate the electricity market and the real estate market. But reality is giving us reason. What was impossible and intractable just a few months ago, today is not just a necessity, but a reality in more and more European states. And, yes, we will have to take more measures, bolder and more structural, because, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis they want to condemn us by making us believe that there is no alternative can be faced with courageous and structural measures that will change the root of this model that is generating these crises. It is possible and it is the responsibility that all the progressive and left-wing forces of this House must assume. As I said, these taxes are a step in the right direction, yes, and that is why we will support their processing. But we also want to warn of another aspect that unfortunately is very present in the legislative action of this Government and of the parties that make up it, and it is nothing other than the lack of respect for our own instruments. Once again, this law uses a legal figure to bypass and bypass the competences of our foreign estates, a decision that we reject head-on. We hope that these shortcomings will be corrected during the parliamentary process and that they will meet the corrections that will be presented by the Basque groups, so that these taxes will remain in the hands of the outlying haciendas of Araba, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Nafarroa. If not, at Euskal Herria Bildu we will not be able to secure the vote in favour at the end of the procedure. We trust that we will be able to dialogue, negotiate and resolve this issue. I'm on my way. I have already said this: the Government still has enough room to act by means of a permanent tax that extends to both banking and electricity, by taking measures that prevent electricians and banks from drawing up these measures, as they have done with others, and that do not impact on consumers' pockets. We hope to be able to improve these aspects during processing and to adopt these necessary and urgent measures. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u41	Thank you. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u42	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today we are discussing the implementation of two benefits announced by the President. One, the large energy companies and the other, the large financial institutions, because these two sectors are benefiting most from the current economic situation. In the case of energy, so colloquially it is known as the fallen profits from the sky they are getting and, in the case of banks, for the profits they are going to get from the rise in interest rates. It is true that energy sources are obtaining disproportionate benefits that, of course, they did not expect due to the energy shock we are experiencing. They are margins that end up moving to families and businesses, whose situation is complicated to cope with their day-to-day lives. In the case of banks, the benefit is justified, according to the Government, by the rise in interest rates. In this case, let me raise the question of the direct existence of these extraordinary benefits, as a rise in rates may not necessarily mean greater benefits. It should be taken into account - at least it should be analysed - in a context of worsening the economy, the possibility of deteriorating the credit quality in which lateness is likely to increase. Although, on the other hand, it is also fair to recognise that banks have been shot in the stock market due to the rise in interest rates agreed by the European Central Bank, benefiting from its margins. We are faced with benefits that partly follow the wake of Europe. By March, the European Commission already said that Member States could consider temporary tax measures on the fallen benefits of the sky and, exceptionally, take part of those returns to distribute them to consumers. President Von der Leyen, in the package of emergency intervention measures, moved last week the need for an energy tax that is being debated today and that will have to be analysed and studied in order to bring the benefit that is being offered here in the State into line with it, so that energy companies do not see their competitiveness in relation to their European counterparts impaired and because everything points to the fact that the tax that will be agreed in Europe will be binding on the Member States. My group is not going to question the substance of both benefits, which are also well received by society. However, we do have to question the way in which these benefits have been developed and certain technical problems that will have to be solved, if necessary, in the parliamentary process if we really share that we are trying to help families and SMEs, who really need it. And, of course, they will help to alleviate that cost they are suffering and also to finance it in solidarity. In short, finance public policies to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine and achieve an income pact. In turn, we need to be aware and move citizens that these benefits are not going to reduce inflation. They're not gonna do it. It is therefore not possible to run the risk that these benefits, either on legal or technical grounds, may be challenged and remain unrouted. This Government is characterized by announcing measures that are then difficult to articulate or that have a complicated technical fit, so the best thing would be that among the partners of government will end up with that constant struggle that they have to take on leadership and to show who is more progressive, and they will act with more responsibility to prevent this kind of measures from ending up being annulled by the courts and being able to give rise to important financial returns that, ultimately, can end up paying society, citizenship and the economic fabric, which we intend to protect, as we are already doing in some other case. In addition, it is disturbing that such a complex issue is regulated under the proposed law of the groups and not as a Government project, thus avoiding all parliamentary procedures for prior public information in order to ensure the normative quality and participation of those potentially affected. In our view, the main problem is that they have forgotten the existence of the economic concert and the Navarro convention, the Basque and Navarra haciendas with competence in this matter. This is an issue that will have to be addressed during the course of this proposal, because both benefits must be agreed upon. You know that, and President Sanchez recognized that in his appearance in the Senate a week ago. Therefore, legal certainty as to the formulation of both benefits and concertation for the outlying communities of Euskadi and Navarra. The formula chosen to detract from these benefits is also peculiar. On the one hand, because there has been constant talk of taxes on energy and banks by the proposing parliamentary groups and now it turns out that the proposed benefit is not of a tax nature; however, they are required by an administration to obtain revenues to sustain public expenditure, and they state this in their explanatory statement. In addition, they articulate these benefits as a tax is usually articulated. A gallimatías! It is also paradoxical that Podemos defends a non-taxary property benefit when, in 2018, it filed an appeal for unconstitutionality, precisely about the nature of these property benefits. It is also surprising that they have always spoken to us in terms of detracting extraordinary benefits and it turns out that the benefit has little to do with these extraordinary benefits. They talk about the net turnover, not the difference in profits, but as a benefit on sales. Invoicing is taxed in the case of energy and in the case of banking the margin of intermediation, interest and commissions, which is of course to be adapted, where appropriate, in the light of what is approved by Europe, which is indeed proposing a deduction of the extraordinary profits and, moreover, seems to set the taxable persons differently. There are also doubts about the retroactivity of not taxing these extraordinary profits and, lastly, they seek to ensure that it does not have a direct or indirect impact on the delivery to the customers of the companies concerned and that CNMC and Banco de España are entrusted with monitoring compliance with this premise, which will be virtually impossible to verify. It is very difficult to demonstrate what part of a price increase corresponds to the amount of the non-tax benefit, so it should be ensured and made clear that the benefit of the collection and its destination is greater and more efficient than the impact that this benefit could have on families, consumers and businesses. In short, rushes are not good counselors. Talking and saying that I am going to tax or bring profits to big companies, to banks, is very easy and very populist; what is difficult is to design and articulate correctly. It gives the feeling of improvisation. I repeat again: taxes that engrave the extraordinary profits, yes, in which the premises and conditions that Europe will agree on in this package of emergency measures must also be taken into account, including the energy tax, and which will probably take into account what has been signed so far by various constitutional bodies that have endorsed the existence of win for profits and, therefore, the possibility of agreeing an extraordinary tax that is temporary, that exclusively graves the extraordinary benefit and that takes into account the particularities of each sector. A dialogue with the sectors concerned would have been desirable, because it is always better to have them as allies than not in confrontation. As I have commented, our group believes that economic efforts are necessary to respond to the economic consequences of the energy crisis, so that those efforts do not fall solely on citizens and, much less, on vulnerable groups, because inflation affects us all, but not all, but we all suffer equally. We will vote in favour of its consideration, but we demand the concertation of both benefits so that the citizens and companies of the outlying territories of Araba, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Nafarroa have these additional revenues, and rigour in their design and articulation. There is no foral concertation, or we will oppose with all means at our disposal to continue with that process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u43	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, from Citizens we are aware of the difficult situation in our country; also of the hard winter that we are going to face with the consequences of the Putin war on energy supply, the effects of inflation and the rise in interest rates. That is why, since the beginning of the crisis, we have defended the need to hold everyone's shoulder to take this forward. From my parliamentary group we have always had a proactive and open attitude to dialogue in order to promote liberal measures which, as in the rest of Europe, are helping citizens to combat this rise in prices. And while we share the need, as I say, to share the cost of inflation equitably, we believe that these two taxes brought on by the parties that make up the government suffer from the sectarianism that characterizes this coalition and a legal inconsistency that can turn against our legal security and our economy. To begin with, the government's own legal tool for bringing both taxes to this House is not the right one. Instead of processing the bill as a bill, they use their parliamentary groups to pass it as a bill. And what's going on? That they can avoid and avoid all the necessary procedures: studies without consultation that guarantee the legality of the norm; public consultation of the affected; memory with economic and budgetary impact; the opinion of the Council of State, and in this case, of course, a report of the National Commission on Markets and Competition. All of this has been skipped for fear of being brought to light by the obvious legal failures of the proposition and delaying its announcement, which is the only thing they are really looking for. Pure and hard marketing. But it's not just that, nor is the tax technique the right one. You, ladies and gentlemen, have used a figure in the non-tax public property benefit, rather than treating it as a tax. Why? Because taxes, as its own definition says, are required without compensation for the performance of acts that manifest economic capacity; they are collected to finance public expenditure and are managed directly by the Administration. Tell me if this thing we're dealing with today is not a tax. Mrs Blanquer, repeat with me: it is a tax. It's a tax, you put yourself as you put yourself here in the rostrum. The taxes that we are reviewing today cannot be accompanied by this figure. Why do they use this form of property benefit? Because, since it is not a tax, it facilitates the way for the Government to face a foreseeable judicial challenge, as will happen; because it also reduces the risk in the courts of going against the principle of equality by taxing only for specific companies. You have already allied with your coalition - with Unit Podemos - and you are already beginning to point out which companies can pay taxes and which ones have to pay more. Because if it were a tax, double taxation with corporation tax would be even more obvious, and they want to dodge it in this way. Come on, they trust so little in the legal solvency of their rule that they put the bandage before the wound. Moreover, if they really want to do it right, they should have set it up as a calculated tax on profits and not on income. In fact, you, in your propaganda, were constantly talking about the principle of taxing extraordinary profits, and even here today you have been heard again by parties that support your Government, when in reality it is income that taxes, regardless of what happens to the expenses of these companies to which you point out with this tax. But, above all, the problem is that this tax we will end up paying among all. The government lies to all Spaniards and we will pay for it among all. That is the reality, because they cannot ensure that they can control that they do not turn on citizens, and that is so; first, because the Government lacks a prior analysis and assessment of this measure in order to effectively avoid its impact on citizens. They have no way of being able to monitor that matter. Secondly, because the European Banking Authority's guidelines on banking tax oblige - they oblige - all costs, including taxes, to be passed on and incorporated into loan prices. Europe obliges the bank to reflect its costs and to pay for it by citizens. This is so and you lie to all Spaniards; you are lying. [[Applauds]] Prohibiting the impact as set out in this proposal affects the principle of freedom of enterprise, of a market economy as such, and is thus reflected in our Constitution. In short, we risk introducing a tax that is contrary to European law and that violates our legal certainty. This measure is not going to help fight inflation or lower prices; on the contrary, it is most likely to hinder economic recovery and affect credit decisions in the case of the bank. The Government also had the precedent of Lithuania, where a similar measure ended with the European Central Bank saying that it was not advisable and that it would eventually impact citizens and the economy in general. That is why the Liberals have moved forward and sent last week a letter to the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, to warn President Sánchez about the possible consequences of applying this tax in our economy. Liberals are the first we believe that we all have to shoulder to get out of this crisis, but all, the first government. Do you know, Mrs. Blanquer, who has raised more with inflation? The Government. The Tax Agency has raised more than EUR 22 billion, EUR 22 billion; much less than you have contributed to this society through aid. The most won is the Tax Agency, but they'll never recognize that. And in the case of the energy sector, it has already been warned that it can generate insecurity in the face of potential investors, even if there are doubts that these investments can reach and become effective in our country. Two sacred rules of this sector are being manipulated: that the rules be changed with the investments already made and that the investment is limited while symmetric coverage is not provided for the reductions. For all this, Citizens, we can only vote against these two taxes brought here today by the Socialist and United Party We can, by arbitrary and ideological, but also by going against our legal certainty and European regulations and, above all, because we are going to pay it among all the Spaniards. The government lies again. This tax we will pay among all Spaniards and Citizens we will not collaborate in that. I would ask the government parties to preach with the example, because now is when we all have to add up. Start with you. Start by reducing the number of ministries, start by slimming down the Administration and not asking for sacrifices from all Spaniards as you go through this crisis without making any sacrifices. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that in exceptional situations patches do not work or are never sufficient and that problems with root causes cannot be solved if it is not prepared to take structural measures, such as the nationalisation of large energy companies. We have seen this over and over again over the course of these months with the measures taken by the Government. The BNG has been demanding taxes from companies, energy companies, banks and large fortunes for months. The government resisted doing so and, finally, we are now being presented with a proposal with a non-tax, temporary, energy and financial burden. Here we find the first problem and is that from the BNG's point of view it is insufficient. For starters, why a temporary and non-permanent tax? Why give it exceptional treatment and not do so in the framework of a deep and progressive tax reform, including, for example, the great wealth and fortunes and assuming greater fiscal justice, so that it pays more who has the most and achieves real that for once the crisis is not paid by the workers and the peoples? Second question. We believe that it must be realized that this tax cannot be calculated as a cost to companies, in order not to reduce their contribution by means of taxes such as corporate taxes. And the third important question. How will the Government act to ensure that this tax does not end up being transferred to customers? We know that this is difficult, but it seems absolutely necessary to us, because if we were not faced with a fraud against the social majority and the workers. In any case, we will vote in favour of the consideration, hoping that we can improve it in its processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u47	Thank you. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today we are voting on a temporary tax on financial institutions and large energy companies in the midst of a major ecological, energy and inflation crisis; that is, we are voting whether or not we have tools to distribute these burdens and who do not end up paying the usual ones. It is more than predictable that the Members of the People's Party and of VOX will end up voting no, and it is more than predictable, as many of their spokesmen and intellectuals have done, that they say that this is a measure of atrocious interventionism, that cannot be tolerated and that, moreover, it is failed. It would then seem that we would be in the midst of a debate on interventionism, but that is not the case. Actually, ladies and gentlemen of the right, you and I have something in common: we are both what you call interventionists. The difference is in who's favor. When financial institutions had to be rescued, spending EUR 60 billion on Spanish citizens, who have not yet returned, seemed perfect to you, seemed to you the correct functioning of the market. Now, that we demand from financial institutions, that they are making more money than ever, without having made any extra effort, that they return a part and that they contribute, that seems to them a terrible interventionism. When the de facto labor reforms have reached wages, because they have destroyed collective bargaining, because they have established fear in the workers and de facto they have reached wages, you see no interventionism there; you see the invisible hand of the market. Now, when we say that it is not time to raise wages, but it is time to raise commodity prices, that is a terrible interventionism for you. Some have even compared it with the persecution of Jews in Nazi Germany, which needs to live out of reality. When you water with billions of euros to the big companies of our country from the European funds, which are public funds - nothing more and nothing less than 67 billion euros have asked only for energy - you see no interventionism there. Now, when we tell the energy companies, now that they are winning more than ever, at this very difficult time, that they are contributing, there you see a terrible interventionism. You - let me conclude - have no problem with interventionism, have a problem with the redistribution of wealth: when it is from the bottom up, thanks to state intervention, it seems good to you; when it is from the top down, then it seems bad to you. It is understandable that the party of Iberdrola, with its different acronyms, votes against this tax. The rest of the House and the rest of the Spanish people are in favour and we are more, so go ahead and make it permanent. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u49	Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u50	Thank you, President. We find it reasonable to tax the profits of companies that have been enriching themselves at the expense of citizens' money, which, moreover, see their welfare diminish while their money contributes to fattening these companies. We are not going to vote against the consideration, but we do want it to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions what we sense is going to happen and what we sense is going to happen. I suppose you are very conscious, socialist and communist, that this measure is of weak architecture. The Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court are always going to play in favor of banking, and this measure looks like it ends up in full colliding in the courts. I hope I'm wrong, let's see what happens. We entered the proposition itself. You explain that with this measure you plan to raise about EUR 2 billion to the electricity sector, but two weeks ago, in the actual decree of energy saving measures, you, and with the support of some parties, paid EUR 1360 million to the electricity sector, which corresponds to the compliance of a law that you yourself imposed in December 2021. Seen as a whole all this, it seems very inconsistent to us. What I think you are doing is taking the money away from the electricity sector, on the one hand, with this measure and returning the money back to the electricity sector, on the other hand, with the royal decree, this 1360 million euros. Where's the little ball? Who can vote against this measure, Mrs Blanquer? Another question that comes to my mind is: if as a measure to compensate for the increase in the price of electricity you decided, also in December 2021, to suspend the application of the tax on the value of the production of electricity, what makes you think that now the electricians will not re-impact the tax, directly or indirectly, and will end up paying, as always, the citizens? Because I don't think leaving in writing that - I read literally - you can't move to the customers is enough. That's why I was talking about this measure of weak structure, little nuanced and little worked. You are not the most progressive government in history, because in the middle of August you have done the same thing that all Spanish governments have always done: to legislate in favour of banking and to dress it up as social policies. With regard to the banks, in their proposal they point out and plan to raise some EUR 1.5 billion. Is that all they've dared to get back to those banks rescued with more than €60 billion in public money? I think you guys can squeeze a little bit more. Is this the maximum effort you were talking about, Mrs. Blanquer? And I end up with a question. Would you be prepared to include other measures in the parliamentary procedure? Many thanks and visca Catalunya free.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u51	Thank you. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u52	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We are debating the consideration of a proposal for a law of the Socialist and Confederal Groups of the United Nations We can for the establishment of temporary energy levies and of credit institutions and credit institutions. We are in favour of implementing these two new taxes. In fact, we had already demanded this on many occasions since the beginning of this crisis and that is why we are voting in favour of this consideration. The enormous benefits of energy companies have already been discussed in this Chamber, but we must not fail to repeat some figures. According to their annual accounts, the revenues of the four largest Spanish energy companies grew jointly by 34 % between 2020 and 2021, and their aggregate profits in 2021 were twice the average observed during the previous five years. A real shame at a time when many families have real problems to be able to pay for the light, or they have to choose between paying for the receipt of the light and the gas or filling the refrigerator. I suppose the right and the right argued that these taxes are the property of a social-communist government. We recommend that you open your mind a little bit and observe what has been done by several European countries that have already applied a tax on the extraordinary benefits of energy. Italy, for example, with Mario Draghi, nothing suspected of being radical on the left, has put into effect a 25% tax on the extraordinary profits generated by energy between October 2021 and April 2022 over the same period of the previous year. Also in May, in the United Kingdom, Boris Johnson, who was not suspicious, adopted an additional charge of 25 % on all the profits declared by the oil and gas companies in the North Sea, which added to the nominal corporate tax rate, which for these companies was already 40 %, so that the tax rate applied would be up to 65 %. Another example is Greece, which is charged 90% of the excess profits generated between October 2021 and March 2022. The tax on banking has also been rejected by the most cassy wing in this House. Too many interests where the bank always wins, too many credits to repay, too many favors to pay. Without going any further, from the announcement by the European Central Bank of the rise of the rates, we could already find headlines like that the Spanish bank climbs by 8% a week after a rise in historical rates. For the Republican Parliamentary Group there is a key aspect in the creation of these two new taxes: to prevent them from falling on the consumer, as has happened so many times. The text already provides for monitoring by the National Commission on the Competition Market and sanctions in the event that this happens, but it does not cease to be a minor aspect and we are studying the formulas applied in countries around us to analyse the mechanisms that prevent the transmission of costs. It's good that this initiative comes forward today, but it's too late. Surely, the Andalusian elections have served them to realize that either they make left-wing policies or the right-wing passes over them. Today we are discussing this proposal, which we have an obligation to improve and make more ambitious. How? By extending the scope, to be imposed on a permanent basis as long as the benefits of these companies are extraordinary, as we have already asked in a motion for a resolution in the general policy debate. We also ask them to process quickly, so that it does not fall back into the perverse focus of extending processing times. We are all aware of the effects that inflation is having on the middle and working classes of this country. It is therefore important that this crisis should not be paid for by the usual ones. This initiative is positive, but it is still just a patch. If we learned the lesson of the 2008 crisis, when the PP's austerity policies caused much pain to the middle and working classes, a suffering that still persists and that has chained with the crisis of the COVID-19 and the inflation crisis, today we would have a profound fiscal reform on the table, where great fortunes and great incomes will pay much more and families that suffer much less. We are for the work, and we hope that the forces that sustain the Government will also be for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. On June 13, 1898, the War Revenue Act was passed in the United States, a law introducing temporary taxes, including inheritance tax, to finance the war in Cuba. Well, that war ended exactly two months later, but 124 years later the Americans continue to suffer from the temporary inheritance tax. I don't know why I remembered that when I read today the title of your bill, called for the establishment of temporary energy taxes and credit institutions. And as the reading progressed, socialist ladies and gentlemen, I remembered more of that war initiated under a false pretext, as was the sinking of Maine, because in that war the United States was willing to do anything to gain access to world hegemony. A little like Pedro Sánchez today, isn't it? The politician is willing to anything, anyone, to access and remain in power. [[Applauds]] The one who was able to agree with those who for months promised that he would not agree, the one who cast the political arm of ETA, exchange prisoners for budgets, returns today to the burden and puts his strict electoral interest before the economic responsibility and the interests of Spain and all the Spaniards. Today, together with his Marxist partners, he brings us to this House an initiative that plans on the unconstitutional, that solves nothing, that damages the image of Spain, that deteriorates legal security, that compromises investment and employment and that, at the same time, you will see how you will end up paying all the Spaniards. And they do so through a bill rather than making it as reasonable as it would have been through a bill, a trapping process with which they try to avoid public consultation, the memory of normative impact and the advice of the Council of State and which results in what was a cacicada from the beginning. And let us remember how we have arrived here, without listening to any of the sectors concerned, without even informing the Minister of Finance - today absent, he should not be very interested in this initiative - and without having made any prior study. Pedro Sánchez considered, however, that it was a good announcement to bring to the debate about the state of the nation. I could have used that debate for other things, to do some self-criticism, for example; there seemed to be reason for that. It is possible that the fact that we were the only country in Europe to raise taxes after the pandemic hit explains that Spain has been released from economic recovery. It may be that the fact that we are the only country in the European Union that is not reviewing and is not even considering revising its energy policy has had an impact on triggering energy costs. The so-called labour counter-reform is likely to be connected to some extent with the fact that Spain is the country that has destroyed the most jobs in the second quarter of the year. But no, this government preferred to avoid any self-criticism and return to the mantras - we already know: Franco, virus, Putin; Franco, virus, Putin - for whatever they think. But lately 'Franco, virus, Putin' is no longer enough to cover up all the clumsiness of the worst possible government at the worst possible time. And surrounded by the gloomy reality, that of the Resistance Manual decided to pull forward by incorporating a new mantra: that of the dark powers gathered in scenes that smoke pure, according to him. He, the president of the government, who, with the silence, shelling, complicity and cowardice of many of the greats of IBEX has done and undone, has taken editorial and power centers and created the largest customer network in democratic history! [[Applauds]] He now wants to play two bands, now, with the IBEX and against the IBEX. But the result is always the same: the impoverishment of the middle and working classes, which once again - no doubt - will end up paying the consequences of their populist drift. Because it will be SMEs, middle and working classes, families, who will once again suffer from credit restrictions and the increase in the credit cost resulting from the impact of this bank balance sheet measure. It will be these working classes, precisely those that will be affected by the impact in terms of job destruction, but above all they will carry on their backs the impact of this new rise in taxes. Do you remember when I was repeatedly asking the Minister of Finance if she was going to raise taxes? Mrs. Montero denied it until three times. Do you remember that the socialist government will not raise taxes either to the middle class or to the working class? And what came next we already know. They did not leave a tax behind, but it is that 84% of the tax haven focused precisely on middle and low incomes. And this road map to further increase the tax burden on the Spaniards continues, even if they try to hide it. Measures such as the disaster, which has increased the taxation of the sale of houses by 17%, the non-deflation of the IRPF, which we will talk about later, which motivates the Spanish to pay 13% more in this tax until June, simply because of the rise in prices, and measures such as the one they bring here today, because, despite the government's promises, the taxes that today tell us that they are going to shut down the bank and the electrics do not fill any doubt that they will eventually be passed on to all the Spaniards. Among other things, the guidelines of the European Banking Authority, the EBA, require the bank to set its prices on the basis of the cost structure, including tax costs. So this rule is telling the Spanish bank not to comply with European regulation. I'll tell them that's not gonna happen. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, some of those who today feel affected by this rule were silent when the government attacks tourism, the car industry or when it attacks the meat industry. Some of those who are concerned today and denounce the interventionism of the Government supported the dismantling of our industry decreed by the same Government, acting in the name of climate religion. Some of those who today demand our support did not give it to us when the education sector was being curtailed, SMEs and self-reliant people were being marginalized from European funds or red lines were being crossed that a democratic government should never have crossed. It is never too late, but the economic, entrepreneurial and journalistic elites of this country, because of their complicity and silence, have a lot of responsibility for Sánchez to remain President of the Government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the devastating economic scenario we are in, the last thing we need is new tax increases that put the recovery at risk and sink the Spaniards, how Maine sank, unnecessarily and under a false pretext to deceive the population about who has the responsibility. I am mistaken, which is precisely the only thing this Government is doing well. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor for the People's Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u56	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me to start this speech by pointing out that the Socialist Party has embarked on a journey nowhere. Or if you have undertaken a journey, it is a journey to fiscal irrationality, to the most absolute logic, a journey that undermines your thinking over the past forty years and that also undermines the most basic constitutional principles. He advanced it: whoever made this text, return to the Faculty of Law immediately. What a legal genius, let me be clear. [[Applauds]] What a legal genius, there's nowhere to get him. Secondly, with the introduction of this bill... I am told that you are not listening, Mr. President; I hope this is not a problem. With the introduction of the bill, finally, that stuttering thought of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, based essentially on an arbitrary and doctrinal planned economy, has been transformed. They have transformed it into a sort of tax a la carte program, where they threaten or astound all their threats and prejudices, these prejudices that share the most bilious communism of the twentieth century, that communism that tries to stigmatize collectiveizing certain groups, precisely everything that the market-free economies in a developed Europe do not expect. You want to behave like Robin Hood and to be Robin Hood you have to know who to record primarily, if you really have to record someone. The only benefit that has fallen from heaven is the EUR 22,000 million that you have received from the tax collection that has arisen as a result of inflation. [[Applauds]] They tighten the bow and shoot, but they shoot at inflation, not collecting or turning tax doctrine and tax exercise into a subjective pursuit exercise that leads absolutely to nothing. You represent the most relevant decadent thought in the matter of the decomposition of modern socialism. You do not want there to be poor in Spain; what you do not want there to be rich, because you are a machine for creating poor people: 13.5 million people at risk of social exclusion and 3 million people in material need. [[applause]] That's the reality. And you are Robin Hood, accompanied by the Duke of Nottingham, represented by the United We Can? You are John without Earth: without principles, without values, without any knowledge, with an ignorance of the brutal tax system. But we are going to explicitly analyse the rule right now because, of course, it would be a good theoretical exercise in any classroom of a Faculty of Law. The text is a combination of a perfect synthesis of a clumsiness and a legal engineer with a simulated exercise to try to defraud the usual procedure envisaged through a bill. Firstly, why have they not done so through a bill? For an obvious reason, the Ministry of Finance should have issued the mandatory reports. I do not know a single official of the Ministry of Finance who would have accepted this text; he would simply be laughing in his office right now. Nor does the president of the CNMC, who is fraudulently assigned powers that do not correspond to her for stealing her competences, because if someone really wants to verify that there is no translation of the tax burden, that the tax administration does, not to those who do not have competence or to the Banco de España. That's what you've achieved. But already define this, from the point of view of legal material filiation, as a non-taxary public property benefit... The only public property benefit we have left is you and you have only one year left, which you would do well to advance the elections to put an end to this nightmare immediately. [[Applauds]] This is a tribute! This is a tribute! But what are you inventing right now? But do they not realize that this enjoys the principles of unilaterality and co-activity? Of course, when I heard, after Mr. Guijarro spoke, what they understand by pact... According to the theory of the pact, unilateral imposition without agreement of wills. It is that you are investing the basic rules of tax and political knowledge, but it is that you are also violating the most basic principles of constitutional law: the principle of prohibition of arbitrariness, the principle of irretroactivity of certain rules, the principle of legal certainty. Do you really believe that this tax burden cannot be deducted? Do you really believe that this can be set in a standard? Do you really believe that the tax burden will not be transferred to the Spanish? Of course, the tax burden will be transferred to the Spaniards in either of the two charges. By the way, there is no kind of material or mathematical formula to analyze, neither in the law of large numbers, nor in a specific way, whether there has been a translation. And, of course, as you are obviously not going to do, because neither would the Ministry of Finance - and there, of course, rent the profits to the Minister of Finance, who has not had to come to present this bill - they endorse it to the CNMC. I'd like to know what the CNMC thinks of this. Are you prepared to proceed with this text to the President of the NCMC? Are you ready for the Secretary of State for Finance to come? Are you ready for the governor of the Banco de España to come? Have you asked for the European Central Bank's mandatory report? No, no, But in the case of the tax on energy companies, you have anticipated the European consensus that is being reached right now by this permanent tax voraciousness, that feverish anxiety that constantly leads you to create all kinds of tax figures. Please rest; you don't have to work every day. The Socialist Party could one day rest and, of course, avoid this permanent, selective and widespread fiscal felony. Because you not only impose taxes selectively and collectivizing certain groups, but also do so to all Spaniards: more than twenty tax figures created, more than twenty tax rates raised over the years, and, indeed, Minister Montero systematically denying that they were going to raise taxes. Agree yourselves, even chronologically, with your own past; make fiscal memory and make tax memory. Mr. Guijarro, I don't know what you mean by a pact. Is this an income pact? Does this have anything to do with the rent deal? In a situation in which inflation is unleashed, in which the weakening of economic growth is absolute, in which the fiscal pressure is suffocating, please ask them to at least return to normality. The corporal. My epilogue is dedicated today - because I saw President Sánchez the other day in the debate of the Senate, and I was surprised, blaming the People's Party that we were the defenders of the plutocrats, of the powerful - to illustrious socialists who served and have served energy companies and banking entities: I dedicate it to Jordi Sevilla, Antonio Miguel Carmona; I dedicate it to José Blanco; I dedicate it to Luis Atienza; I dedicate it to Beatriz Corredor; I dedicate it to everyone who has passed. [[Applauds]] I only ask you one thing - and I finish - that before talking about the pact you make a pact with yourselves, with your history, to see if you are clear. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u57	We move on to the next point, a one-way direct-reading agreement on the protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, made in Brussels on 5 July 2022, which are being processed cumulatively. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u58	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that the information I had is that a number of groups were going to oppose the urgent procedure of dealing with this initiative or this validation proposal. I cannot understand it, because it seems that you want to debate more on this issue of the war in Ukraine and, therefore, on the position of NATO, rather than making a short debate. We would certainly be delighted, but I think that not as much as we are debating here in the Congress of Deputies, we will be able to convince all the Spaniards who are represented in this House and, above all, the Swedish and Finnish, who have voted mostly and agree. In this respect, I cannot understand how Members such as those of the Bildu Group who have announced that they are going to oppose this urgent procedure have not intervened when a change in the status of autonomy is discussed, as if they obviously do not care, and yet they do care very much what the Finnish people and the Swedish people decide. Therefore, we believe that we must do so as soon as possible. Furthermore, I think this is good for everyone, because, as the issue of Putin's unpunished or illegal aggression against the Ukrainian people goes, the sooner we discuss it, the better, it won't be that when we go to discuss this the war is over. And I cannot resist, at this moment, to repeat in this rostrum the words spoken in early March by this great strategist of international politics and great defender of democracies against the absolutist attacks, the words of Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who on March 2 said - I open quotes - 'I have military friends, I have asked them about the sending of weapons, and they tell me that it does not seem likely that it is being sent could alter the correlation of forces between Russia and Ukraine'. A crack Mr. Pablo Iglesias and his geostrategic vision of international conflicts. Anyway, Mr. Churches is no longer here with us, but you, who still have contact with him, can tell him to change friends because, of course, those who have advise him quite badly. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u59	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG is opposed to the urgent procedure and in a single reading of the protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty for the accession of Sweden and Finland. It does not seem to us that the urgency is precisely for Sweden and Finland to integrate into NATO, the urgency is really to stop the war and to stop it as soon as possible, to apply all efforts on peaceful, diplomatic and dialogue paths in order to put an end to the conflict, and not precisely to attenuate it with the continuation of the expansion of a bellicose organization that has no meaning in a perspective of peace and peaceful resolution of international conflicts. What is more, what is really urgent to us is that the Spanish State rectifys a policy of follow-up, irresponsible decisions by NATO and the European Union, among other things, such sanctions will be at the service of the American interests, which are causing impoverishment of the popular classes and peoples of all Europe, as well as of the peoples and the popular classes of the Spanish State. The urgent thing is for the Government to focus its efforts on putting solutions to the social and economic crisis, which this conflict has contributed to aggravation, and not to continue a path which we know will have predictable - and which can always be more serious than expected - consequences of increasing economic and social difficulties, consequences which, unfortunately, Mr Sánchez Galán will not pay for, neither the energy nor the banking sector, which will continue to form, but which will be paid for by the workers and the people. It's no use asking for more sacrifices, announcing that the coming months are going to be very difficult. What needs to be done is to work so that they are not. That, ladies and gentlemen, is really urgent. That's why the BNG voted against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u61	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos - Galicia in Communal, Mr Pisarello Prados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u62	Thank you, President. We are being asked today to approve the urgent process of extending NATO to two countries: Sweden and Finland. The truth is that, following Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine, one can understand the fears that have led to two European countries that so far were neutral in making this decision. However, we continue to believe that expanding an obsolete military structure, designed primarily to meet the interests of the United States, cannot be our most urgent objective. And it cannot be because if NATO is, as it has acted in the world since its creation and as presented at the last Madrid Summit, it is strengthened, what we will not have will be peace, it will rather be the prolongation of the war, in Ukraine, in Taiwan, where it is necessary, even if this places us, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations has just said, at a mistake in calculating nuclear annihilation. It will be the prolongation of wars, that multiply the dead, the maimed, the displaced in Ukraine, in Palestine, in Yemen, that will enrich, yes, a handful of military, energy, financial corporations, but that will have devastating consequences. It is already having them in inflationary terms, food shortages, basic supplies for the people of Europe and the whole world. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we would have liked urgency not to discuss how to fatten the course of open militarism, but how to build peace. That is, how to avoid more unnecessary bloodshed and how to prevent a handful of speculators from becoming indecently enriched at the expense of people living from their work, from the autonomous people, from small and medium-sized enterprises. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we would also have liked to see this House, rather than persisting in an overly acritical follow-up to NATO and the United States, clearly raise the need for Europe to take advantage of the resources it already has to raise at once an autonomous foreign and security policy, independent of any power, in the service of a just and peaceful coexistence between peoples and between civilizations. That, ladies and gentlemen, should be the urgency par excellence of our moment. The rest, however machaconically repeated all the power plants, is to enter into an eye for a belligerent eye that will multiply suffering and blind all mankind. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u63	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentarian in Congress, Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. This morning the spokesman for the Socialist Group was referring to the hidden telephone with which the Government operates. The initiative we are discussing now is a new example of this. The Government calls on us to urgently process the reform of the Treaty for NATO membership in Finland and Sweden; the Socialist Group, which is by one reading, and Podemos, which is part of the Government and an investiture partner, announces its opposition. It's not the phone that's leaked, it's the GPS, it's the SIM card and the whole terminal. None of this Government works when it comes to State policies. For one part of the Government, the incorporation of Sweden and Finland is urgent and it is necessary to provide them with NATO security umbrellas given the situation of the war in Ukraine. That is what is stated in the documentation of this initiative and that is how Mr Sánchez himself committed himself. For another part of the government, NATO is a criminal organization, as Mr Pisarello said even today, in this speech, and, as they have repeatedly voted in this House, they refuse to support the incorporation of these two nations who request it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the PP is a responsible party and in foreign policy we are always aligned with the interests of the State. That is why I ask you: what part of the government has a sense of state and which one acts outside the sense of state on a vital issue, since the fates and future of Europe today are being played on the east of the continent and on the border with Russia? It was a good ride through the Prado to the international leaders who came to the NATO Summit, but I encourage Mr. Sánchez to take his entire government, starting with himself, and to walk them through the halls to become aware of what the nation they represent and to agree on what a state policy is, which I tell you already has nothing to do with the continuous nonsense that we are accustomed to. All the ambassadors of NATO countries will today write a telegram to their capitals reporting on the new chapter in the series of divisions of Mr Sánchez's Government, a new example of the lack of reliability in Spain's foreign policy, as it has been with Morocco, with Algeria, with support for Ukraine and with all the dossiers that have so far faced the Government. [[The lady]] I have already announced to you that the PP will act responsibly, will vote affirmatively on this issue and that it will be seen in a single reading by the plenary of the House. You may be in permanent trouble, but Sweden and Finland, as well as Ukraine, cannot afford delays, especially when there is a nation like Turkey that is not making it easy, so it is very positive that Spain is among the first nations to approve this enlargement. The success of the NATO Summit is being voted on today. The commitments have to be made in actions and their reality, Mr Socialist Group, is that neither for the admission of Sweden and Finland nor for their budgetary commitments in defence have the support of Podemos. That's the true image of the mirror of your reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Prieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u66	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. The Socialist Group will vote in favour of both Finland and Sweden's application for membership of NATO. We are going to do this, first of all, because the urgent procedure is not a request, Mr Hispan, from the Government of Spain, but a commitment made by the thirty countries that make up NATO at the Madrid Summit - by the way, I am very pleased that you have congratulated the Government and the Socialist Group for having organized the most historic summit in Madrid, I believe the most important one in NATO's history - because the moment, sincerely, requires this. [[Applauds]] Because you speak of a sense of state, but what would make sense is that the opposition party sometimes behaves as such when it is in opposition in the key affairs of the state. You are very concerned about what We can vote on; you are constantly referring to what you vote on, but you should sometimes worry about what you vote on, for example, in the decrees to alleviate the economic situation resulting from the war that you are so concerned about, such as the 20 cents discount for gasoline, economic aid for the sectors concerned, as happened in the pandemic. And the truth is that the Podemos Group can vote against or abstain in the situation in Finland and Sweden on NATO membership, but you are not worried about that, the only thing you are worried about is the erosion of the government, forgetting the real problems of the citizens. Let us be concerned about what you are voting for, for example, in the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, acting as that party with a sense of state that claims to other parties; let us also think about the general interest when you vote against the enlargement of the ERW, against the aid for petrol or against all the social aid that this government has put in place. Don't worry so much about other parties and worry about being able to look citizens in the face when they profile themselves at their problems and at the dramatic situations in this country. [[Applauds]] Whenever there is a relevant situation, they can find the Socialist Group and the Socialist Government facing it. We're going to vote yes. We have done so whenever the situation requires it. Therefore, we will pay attention to what Sweden and Finland are asking for in a situation where their security is what they are looking for. We cannot be equidistant between those countries that seek to attack free democracies and those free democracies that want to protect themselves from possible attacks by those countries that we doubt are democracies. Equidistance doesn't work either. We support the strategic concept promoted by Spain at the NATO Summit in July. We are committed to speeding up this process to protect Sweden and Finland from possible threats that may come to them in the present or in the future and, of course, we are with those who seek the security and peace of their citizens. The citizens of Sweden and the citizens of Finland have asked for this in the majority, and we have the pride and duty to listen to them today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u68	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We started with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on aesthetic surgery and the fight against intrusiveness and pseudoscience. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u69	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I cannot help but rise to this rostrum and have names and images like Sara's, Maria's, Silvia's and so many other anonymous people that we do not know. This non-law proposition is for all of them, for each and every one of these lost lives, people who are no longer unjustly, but yes their families, yes their friends and neighbors, and also their political representatives: you, us. All of us are here today and when I look at them I see hope; I see hope in the useful policy that answers, in the healthy policy that seeks solutions to the real problems of citizens, to whom we owe and represent ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will be able, among all of us, to achieve unanimity without blemish, without blemish, without reproach. Comrades, other days will come and there will be other spaces to erode the government, other times to try to hurt the political adversary, but today it does not touch. And I want to have, unfortunately, a very special memory for Sara, a neighbor of my land, mother of two daughters and who was thirty-nine years old. Sara paid for a liposculpture to a private clinic in Murcia that was announced as an international reference, but that put in the operating room a doctor who did not have the specialty for which he was performing the intervention. After the intervention, she was transferred to an ICU from a public hospital and, after twenty-nine days fighting for her life, died as a result of the serious injuries she suffered at the hands of a surgeon who did not meet the proper specialty. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened to Sara and her family cannot be forgotten and, above all, we cannot allow it to be repeated. From here I want to send a very big hug to his whole family, who is accompanying us today from the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Here are Nora and Reuben, Sara's brothers; Damian and Felisa, her parents, and also tell me that her daughter has come; family and friends who have not stopped fighting so that this initiative would come out today and reach here. That is why today, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings this proposal to plenary with the aim of ensuring quality and safety for patients of all those health activities related to cosmetic surgery. Because, ladies and gentlemen, our country is a leader in the field of cosmetic surgery. In 2019 there were 381,000 interventions and 151 000 without surgery, and over the past two years the figures have increased by 10%. In Spain, different medical specialties have competence in cosmetic surgery in their field of action, which is a guarantee of effectiveness and safety for all patients. But, unfortunately, the Spanish Society of Plastic Surgery, Repair and Aesthetics, to which we greet and thank also the implication that it has had for this initiative to come forward, estimates that of every ten aesthetic procedures, eight are not performed by the appropriate specialists. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this can be precisely the cause of complications during interventions, which can even lead to the death of patients. Therefore, it is vital to provide patients with information on the skills and techniques that medical specialists can perform according to their skills, the competences of the official training programme of their specialty. And precisely in line with this initiative, the Ministry of Health has announced that it is working with health professionals and autonomous communities in a new register of health professionals, which will be available in a few weeks. It is these measures that are highly demanded by health professionals and also by families to avoid bad practice and that will allow the population to verify that the professional who will attend to them has the right specialty. In my group, ladies and gentlemen, we work to bring the demands of families and collectives to the institutions of the State and to transform them into coordinated initiatives that are present on the government's agenda, that is what we do. That is why the delegate himself of the Government of my region, as well as the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, undertook from the very beginning to address this situation. Our aim is to make the necessary legislative changes to regulate the services provided from private cosmetic surgery clinics and thus offer greater safety and guarantee to all patients. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all my colleagues from Alcantarilla and the Murcia Region for working from local and regional policy to help make this non-legislative proposal a reality today, especially Carolina and Lara, but also the rest of the colleagues from the municipal corporation and legislative assembly for unanimity in the sense of votes in both chambers. My colleague and Health Spokesman, AnaPrieto, for her strong support and commitment to this initiative. Ana, we've got her out of the way. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal. Sara's not here, but we are. Let's make politics; useful politics, healthy politics, good politics so that cases like Sara's do not happen again and to make it possible for any citizen who wants to access this service to do so safely and with all guarantees. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. This initiative addresses a matter of the greatest importance in terms of health, and specifically the implementation of various measures with the aim of improving and extending information to patients regarding certain specialties and activities of plastic surgery, repair and aesthetics, as well as on the professionals, centers and health facilities in which they are carried out. We are trying to stop the health intrusion which, unfortunately, is the shortest path to irreparable damage, sometimes fatal, because there are patients who are not properly informed of the professional qualification of those who care for them, the risks involved in passing through an operating room or the side effects of certain aesthetic treatments. It is also a set of proposals that seek to respond to alarm calls that have been making different councils and professional colleges for years, but which have fallen into a broken bag. I am afraid that today the Socialist Group has brought to the Chamber the same model of a broken bag which has prevented effective measures from being taken to prevent the recurrence of tragedies and dramas with health and aesthetics in the medium. In this sense, I think it should be remembered that, as soon as Pedro Sánchez came to the government, the then minister, Mrs Carcedo Roces, announced measures against intruders, pseudosciences and so on, but, after more than four years since then and so many other health ministers, in Spain we continue to do so. Little, very little progress is going to be made with this non-legislative proposal, which will eventually be turned into wet paper through the argument that the autonomous communities should be given powers in this area or even the European Commission, among other various pretexts. Nor is it worth remembering that just five months ago the Socialists and the United Nations We have rejected here, on the alimon, Mrs Sánchez Jódar, the consideration of an excellent proposal for a law of the People's Group on the advertising of health services and activities; that was also a useful political one and you rejected it. Ladies and gentlemen, the first step that the Government should take to improve health quality is the appropriate remuneration for professionals and the updating of staff such as nursing staff. Once again he pointed out in this rostrum that the Socialist Party and Podemos have blocked here, in the Congress of Deputies, the bill on the nursing ratio, which came backed by almost 700,000 signatures, and whose processing was approved in December 2020, almost two years ago. The Government also has tools and procedures to prosecute false health professionals and pseudo-health boys who play with the health of people with the lure of low-cost beauty. In fact, if the blue bank is reviewed, it will be observed that various ministries with the capacity to intervene in this matter, such as Health, Science and Innovation or even Consumer Affairs, including Home Affairs, could take unequivocal steps to promote security, pursue intrusion and complete the measures derived from periodic reports evaluating the scientific evidence of certain techniques and procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain there are problems and frauds, sometimes massive, with the health of the media, but the alarms only sound when it transcends the scandal by the cry of the victims or the tearing testimony of the families that have lost a loved one, such as the cases that have been cited by Sara Gómez or Silvia Idalia Serrano, patients who have to face the irreparable complications and sequelae of certain procedures applied by franchises and companies camouflaged under an impenetrable corporate and commercial entanglement, aided by very aggressive advertising campaigns and financing à la carte. In Congress, there has been no lack of testimony from those who have suffered the perverse effects of false miracle treatments that now, in the Instagram era, social networks, image and influencers, feed on the canons of beauty, including the shameful campaign of the Ministry of Equality, which, under the slogan 'Summer is also ours', manipulated the image of several models to make them more acceptable to the public. [[Mrs Sánchez Jódar makes negative gestures]] This is the aesthetics and ethics of Mrs. Irene Montero's feminist ministry. I have tabled an amendment and I trust that it will be accepted by the Socialist Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u73	Thank you, President. Last January we met the case, already named here by other spokespersons, of Sara Gómez, thirty-nine years old, who underwent an cosmetic surgery and died after presenting a picture - and I quote literally - more like a white-armed rift than a surgical operation. Sara had thirty perforations between half and two centimeters in organs such as the kidneys, intestines, or liver. On July 31, we met the death of Silvia Idalia, thirty-four years old, after being in a coma for three months after an intervention by someone who was not qualified to perform cosmetic surgery. In both cases, neither the doctors nor the centres where such interventions had been performed met the required requirements. These two examples are media, but when you ask plastic surgery professionals, they tell you that this goes far beyond two isolated cases. The number of cases in which interventions of this type are carried out by non-specialists in plastic surgery, repair and aesthetics is frequent and very alarming. They are not always required to be specialists and, more seriously, there are cases of intrusiveness in which people who perform these kinds of interventions have no medical qualification; they are announced in a misleading way and at very low prices for the performance of these kinds of interventions. Well, with this data, on January 17, we asked the government about Sara Gómez's case. In our question we express our concern about intruder and misleading advertising. The Government replied to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on 3 March and the answer was as follows: one, that labour intrusion is already a crime, so nothing had to be changed here; two, that those who carry out these kinds of interventions are already sanitary, and three-this phrase is my favorite - that any citizen can access the state registry of health professionals and check whether the professional who attends to it is trained. Therefore, see if the one who operates on you is trained. With this principle, the government could suppress all inspections and we could see if the kitchen in a restaurant is clean or check if the bus driver has the license to drive it. In view of this response, we note a proposal, which is basically the amendment that we make to them, in which we propose the questions - I do not know what has made them change, fall off the horse or shed light on this matter, but we welcome the Government's rectification with regard to the answer that they gave to us - as follows: firstly, we propose that the Government commission a study to know the true state of intrusiveness in all health matters; secondly, we propose to better limit what each health professional can do, which in this case we are dealing with today is also not very clear on many occasions, and thirdly, we also propose that the sanctions envisaged be applied and that the national pseudotherapy plan also addresses pseudosciences, which also harm this matter. I don't need to remind you of what we've experienced during the past pandemic because of conspirators and pseudoscientists. The questioning of the effectiveness of vaccines or the possible invention of the virus in a laboratory and in a secret basement were two highly cackled pseudoscientific garbage that did a great deal of damage as to the credibility of some messages being launched from the authorities. We don't know how many lives these attitudes have cost, and we don't know how many lives these pseudotherapies and pseudoscience cost permanently, but today we do know that COVID-19 is a mild disease due to the vaccine that many people denied effectiveness. Today we also know - and I wanted to finish today with this - two studies already published in Science that clearly demonstrate that in no laboratory was the coronavirus invented, which originated in a Wuhan market. [[sample two documents]] Today none of the divulgers of this garbage will come out here to apologize for these claims. They are right that, in these times, the actuality and the flood of events make the lies forget quickly, but at least today I will give here the taste of saying, to all those who here denied the effectiveness of the vaccines or said that the virus was an invention of a laboratory, who are liars. And to all who said here, wanting to sow doubts, that the virus was a creation of a laboratory, I tell you that they are people who spread falsehoods and that in their conscience they will carry penance. Science and truth are sometimes slow, but inexorable. They end up coming out at times late, but always. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Mrs Jara Moreno has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u75	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to offer our condolences to the family of Sara Gómez, who died after a liposculpture. I think that talking about cosmetic surgery in a general way leads us to mix concepts and can harm the professional practice of many doctors in Spain. On the one hand, this sector employs a large number of healthcare professionals, so we would have to be extremely careful when talking about them in order not to generalise, criminalise or induce suspicions that may harm them. On the other hand, we must take into account the safety of people undergoing aesthetic treatments. This initiative seems well-intentioned because it aims to improve the protection of users, as well as to combat intrusiveness. However, in order to assess its scope, it would be necessary to know the text of the concrete amendments that are proposed to be incorporated into the text of Royal Decree 1277/2003 or other rules that indicate us in the initiative. Thus, point 3 of the proposal states that it is intended to amend the Royal Decree establishing the general basis for the authorization of health centres, services and facilities. This regulatory rule was not enacted to regulate the exercise of the qualified professions, since it is a subject reserved in accordance with the rule of law, and is intended only to lay down the basic requirements for the authorisation of health centres and establishments. Point 4 of the proposal states that it is presented to combat the eradication of any intrusiveness and pseudoscience affecting the various specialties of medical professions. The purpose is certainly laudable. However, it should be noted that there are no plural medical professions, since, as can be seen from the Law on the Ordination of Sanitary Professions in its article 5, and it has already been written in its day by the Supreme Court, the medical profession is one and the medical specialties are a character with which it is exercised. The holding of the title of specialist will be necessary for the express use of the designation of specialist for the exercise of the profession with such character and for the occupation of jobs with such name in public and private centres and establishments. To combat professional intrusiveness in medicine, and in today's specialty, the said law should be amended, that is, a rule with legal rank. We also have to assume that the different medical procedures are statistically subject to various complications such as bleeding, infections, destabilization of pre-existing pathologies known or not in the patient, side effects of the medicines used and other vicissitudes. Therefore, information to the patient and user is essential for him to assume that he is exposing his health and, sometimes, his life, and to decide freely whether or not to undergo these treatments with full knowledge. We must also differentiate the activities undertaken by aesthetic centers in which apparatus is used that have a use, in addition to aesthetic, sanitary such as laser or pulsed light apparatus. They should only be used for uses that the personnel handling them have authorized and never in medical treatments. The same applies to parenteral administration of medicines such as hyaluronic acid or botulinum toxin, which require the informed consent of the patient as a medical procedure that is and should be administered by an optional. With the above clarifications, we have made an amendment to improve the information to be provided on healthcare professionals and medical procedures for which they are legally authorized and trained to carry out and thus avoid the intrusiveness of other professionals who are not. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jara. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u77	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon. This afternoon we are again discussing in this House a subject related to the protection of health by the public authorities in order to curb and prolong unacceptable situations that have already led to many complaints, including legal actions before the courts. Today we are talking about issues that affect plastic surgery, repairing and aesthetics that prove to be contrary to the principle of safeguarding the health of citizens and the rights of health professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the health and safety of citizens is a priority for the People's Parliamentary Group and we have stated this by presenting a proposal for a law on the advertising of health services and activities and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, voted against. They voted against a law that sought to improve the quality and veracity of health advertising in order, in coordination with healthcare professionals and patients, to eradicate and avoid situations that have caused serious harm to their health, such as the case of patient Sara - I give my condolences to the whole family that accompanies us today - and to many others that we do not know. It is a law that is still unsupported today, as we have seen in the drafting of the compromise amendment, and which could avoid a lot of bad practice. Ladies and gentlemen, for some decades plastic, repair and aesthetic surgery has experienced great scientific and technological advances before possible. As a result of the increase and demand for plastic surgery operations, there is an alarming increase in the number of people who, with the main aim of obtaining an economic benefit and without having the necessary qualifications, are carrying them out, endangering the health and even the lives of the patients. 80% of plastic surgery operations are not performed by professionals who hold the degree of plastic surgery specialist. For each specialist doctor, there are nine who lack the qualification of this specialty or even the qualification of general practitioner. A person who does not possess the required title incurs malicious conduct, committing the offence of intrusion. The exercise of a health profession requires the possession of the corresponding official title which expressly empowers him to do so. The qualifications of medical specialists can only be obtained by the system known as mir and has been repeatedly declared by the Supreme Court, on the basis of articles 15 et seq. of the Law on the Ordination of Sanitary Professions. The decisive criterion for responsible professional practice shall be the possession of the necessary competence to carry out the appropriate medical intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, patients have the right to know all the information available for any action in the field of health. Clinical information is part of all care procedures and the physician responsible for the patient must ensure that his/her right to information is respected. Therefore, in our amendment we call for 100 per cent compliance with the basic law regulating patient autonomy. But if information is important, it is not less the centre where health care is carried out. It is necessary to amend the Royal Decree establishing the general bases for the authorization of health centres, services and establishments, in order to ensure that all health activities are carried out by health professionals with the corresponding title. We are also faced with certain practices that have shown no evidence or scientific knowledge to support their safety and efficacy, which are used for health purposes and which are carried out in health centres; I am talking to them about pseudotherapy. In Spain we need an action plan to combat pseudotherapy urgently. It was mandated by this House and the government announced it in 2018. Three ministers have passed and even a quarter and little or nothing has progressed on this plan. Once again we have a government that is on the sidelines of the problems of the Spaniards and more concerned about personal aspirations or about pursuing the president of my party than about solving the needs of the National Health System. We are talking about the needs of healthcare professionals; what is going to happen with the fourth dose of the vaccine, whether it is going to adapt to the variants that are currently circulating on the basis of the authorisation of the EMA, and what happens with primary care or with the National Agency for Public Health and Quality of Care. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot to do. The amendment we have tabled is intended to address a serious problem affecting healthcare professionals, patients and the National Health System as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u78	Mrs. Velasco, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u79	I thank you for taking into account some of my group's proposals; that is the only way you can do it. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. With your permission, I will intervene from the seat briefly. Mrs Sánchez Jódar, I am speaking to establish the position of our parliamentary group on your non-legislative proposal: we will vote in favour of it. I do not know whether they have finally agreed on a compromise amendment with the rest of the parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments; we will have an opportunity to see it, if so. First of all, I would like to show support for Sara Gómez's family and also to say three questions in relation to the non-law proposal. Firstly, it seems to us a little dangerous that the same initiative mixes up different issues such as professional intruders, pseudosciences and pseudotherapy, because, in the end, the issues are confused and we are talking about problems that need to be addressed differently. In fact, with regard to professional intrusiveness, in response to the question raised earlier by the colleague, the Government said that professional intrusiveness is already regulated in the Criminal Code and that it is a criminal offence as such. I think it is very important that we do not talk about different issues in the same package of the non-legislative proposal, because, in the end, they lead to error. Secondly, we fully agree with many of the proposals you put forward that patients should be provided with information and that the eradication of this type of bad practice should be combated. There are also two issues that seem important to us, and I must criticise you here. One of them is that you propose to develop the national pseudotherapy plan and the other, which we consider very necessary, is that you propose to amend Royal Decree 1277/2003, on the authorization of health centres, services and facilities, in order to resolve this. That is what we are really talking about; we are talking about a lax regulation that allows these kinds of problems to occur. The question is: why, if the decree is 2003 and there is a problem like this, the Government has done nothing, remains unupdated and the Socialist Group has to come forward with a non-legislative proposal and tell the Government to do what it has not done when there is a problem? Or why should the Socialist Group put the gums on the government to say that it is implementing a plan, which they have made and which they have approved? They seem to have to remove the colors for not having modified and updated a decree or for not complying with a plan that they have approved. Having said that - and I think it has also been mentioned here - there was a debate in April on a proposal for a law, to which they referred earlier, concerning the advertising of health services and activities. Our group voted in favour of this consideration because it is also important to make progress in this area. I hope that progress will be made in various areas that fall within the competence of the Ministry of Health with regard to regulation; that in the future what is being talked about; that reality will be adapted to the new social and technological reality; and that these bad practices will be avoided with the sole aim of ensuring the health of patients.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cañadell Salvia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u83	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to send all the support to Sara Gómez's family and friends and also extend it to the families of other patients who are victims of the practice of bad practice. Sara died after undergoing liposculpture, an intervention that a doctor specialized in cardiovascular surgery performed, but without the specialty of plastic surgery, aesthetics and repair. Cases like Sara's can't happen again. For a long time, professional colleges have reported that up to 80% of operations are carried out by doctors in other fields without the necessary training or qualifications, which is not illegal but can have serious consequences. Health inspections are always positive, and that is why we see with good eyes that control and compliance is strengthened, always scrupulously respecting the existing competition framework. We also consider it essential and essential to combat professional intrusiveness and misleading advertising in this sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about health and health patient safety is paramount. However, we are surprised that it is the PSOE, which within the coalition government has the Ministry of Health, which presents this non-legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, it is in your hand to amend Royal Decree 1277/2003 to strengthen the role of the specialist specialist and to develop plans to combat intrusiveness and pseudoscience within the framework of its competences. We will vote in favour of this initiative and call on the Government to carry out the legislative changes requested as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u85	Thank you, President. Unfortunately Sara's, in Murcia, is not the first case of death due to medical negligence during a liposculpture, an intervention carried out by a surgeon without experience or specialization, who ended up perforating several organs, since there have been many other cases of serious negligence. If you want to deal with intrusion in plastic and aesthetic surgery, we ask you not to do so from competitive intrusion and less through a non-law proposition. Catalonia has exclusive competence in the organization and internal functioning, evaluation, inspection and control of health centres, services and facilities. We cannot therefore accept a recipe with which they want to lay down common criteria on the control and compliance with the rules or to broaden the normative bases for exercising control which simply does not belong to them. You speak in your initiative of the importance of properly informing those seeking aesthetic medicine services. At this point we agree 100%, so here you have important information that saves lives. Specialists in plastic surgery, repair and aesthetics go through twelve years of training. After being among the first in the class in the course of Medicine, they must take one of the best notes in the exam in order to be able to access this complex, difficult and long specialty, which should not be confused with aesthetic surgery, it is not the same, much less with aesthetic medicine. The Law on the Ordination of Health Professions, at the state level, provides that only those professionals who have this status may exercise as specialists. It's very clear. It may be necessary to strengthen the criminal punishment of those who do not comply with the law from Congress, but when you announce that you are going to create a national pseudotherapy plan to fight for the eradication of any intrusiveness and pseudoscience, we ask you to have the approval of those responsible for health in the different autonomous communities. Let us avoid medical intrusion, but also competition. The Socialist representative spoke of a useful policy and a sound policy. I will give you another example: to implement the motion for a resolution adopted in this Congress by all groups, except for you, which called for treatments to treat metastatic breast cancer to reach the Spanish National Health System. That is what was approved by this House and we are waiting for you to implement it. They talk about useful politics...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u86	Mrs. Calvo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u87	...of sound politics, apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u89	Thank you very much, President. If you'll excuse me, I'll step in from the seat. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting us with a non-legislative proposal on intrusiveness in cosmetic surgery. It is a very concrete issue, but the social impact it has had, the impact on the health of many people is really dramatic and, in fact, I am already telling you that we are going to vote in favour. I'll be very brief. For us it is fundamental in any treatment or in any element that affects the health of any person, the patient's safety. In that particular case, it is precisely a matter of first order. Intrusion is often associated with bad practices and lack of professionalism in this regard and, therefore, has often entailed serious health consequences and we have even seen victims and deaths. Therefore, we are talking about serious cases of bad practice. Any aesthetic treatment always has a health dimension and that's important to keep in mind, basically because it's not always sold like this. That's fundamental, because that means that in many cases, not all of them, but in many cases it requires minor surgery or even major surgery, and when we talk about major surgery or minor surgery, we're really talking about complex cases, complex treatments. For us, therefore, the fundamental pillar is, on the one hand, the recognition of qualified professionals who, in this sense, already include you in their points and, on the other hand, the recognition of reference centres and services. They are the two fundamental elements. Although we can influence this, there is another element that is fundamental, where precisely intrusiveness moves and often escapes certain controls, which is the subject of misleading advertising. Intrusion uses misleading advertising to look for patients who do not really know what the provisions are and how they are organized and, in that sense, I do remind you that you voted against a proposal for a misleading advertising law when it came here. I was just trying to avoid this in another health field. I believe that on this very serious case and on any issue of intrusiveness it would be the basis for the impact on misleading advertising, which is what really cuts the wings to those non-professionals who try to use people's health to do business and, therefore, I think it is important not only recognition - as I said before - but even to directly tackle this advertising, which is what these people really serve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u91	Good afternoon. The Spanish Society of Plastic Surgery, Repair and Aesthetics has been demanding the realization of legislative modifications necessary to regulate the services provided from private aesthetic surgery clinics, because there are practices of intrusiveness. This means that people who do not have the qualification that is required by law, practice techniques in patients for whom they are not duly authorized, putting patients at risk of injury. Situations of intrusion not only occur in cosmetic surgery, but can occur in any other specialty, but here, perhaps, is the area where they most occur. I want, however, to remember here that intruding is a crime. It is sad the case of Murcia, of Mrs Sara Gómez, a case of death due to cosmetic surgery; it is a case of alleged medical negligence and intrusiveness, and there has already been enough talk here about this case. Situations like this show that we need greater regulation, but also greater control, and not just by intrusiveness, of course. Patient safety is being placed on the table and it is considered that Royal Decree 1277/2003 of 10 October, establishing the general basis for the authorization of health centres, services and facilities, does not guarantee this safety, but I do not think it is just a matter of legislation. Existing legislation is not everything. If the Administration does not have the real will and means to monitor the equipment, operation and qualifications of professionals working in private clinics, irregular situations that endanger people's health may occur. Supervision will allow the detection of intrusiveness, because intrusiveness, I repeat, is already a crime. We will support the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. Mrs Sánchez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u93	We're working on a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u94	All right. They are working on a transactional; when they have it, they send it to the services of the House, please. Thank you so much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on reducing the IRPF to inflation. [[File number 162/001073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u95	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the adjustment of the IRPF to inflation. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u96	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to defend this non-law proposal and, before continuing, allow me to point out that we are not going to be able to accept the amendment tabled, since it introduces concepts outside this non-law proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time of extraordinary difficulty for the vast majority of families because of the price escalation we are suffering, which, contrary to the good wishes of the Government, seems to have no end. Last August inflation rose three tenths compared to July and stood at an annual rate of 10,5 % for the general and 6,4 % for the underlying. For this reason, I am convinced that no one could understand the vote against a measure that the People's Party has been demanding for many months and that would help low- and middle-income families cope with the biggest price rise in the past 40 years. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain, with Sánchez and his twenty-two ministers, has gone from having the lowest purchase basket prices among the major European economies to being placed among the countries with the highest prices. For example, he pointed out that electricity has risen by 121% in the last year; sunflower oil by 110%; flour by 41%; pasta by 31%; and eggs by 27%. And this situation comes from afar, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not true that inflation is only a result of the invasion of Ukraine which began in February this year, as Mr Sánchez and Mrs Calviño want us to believe, and today Mrs Blanquer has done again in her speech on the issue of taxes on banking and electricity. Inflation is already coming from afar, ladies and gentlemen, it began in February last year and the invasion of Ukraine has made it worse. On 8 November 2021, Mrs Calviño said that inflation was a transitory phenomenon; in March this year she said that inflation had hit the ceiling, when it stood at 8.4%, and in May she said that we would not achieve a two-digit inflation in any case. He hasn't given one. She has not given one in her predictions in these four years that Mrs Calviño has been in the government. Well, the reality is that we have been in three consecutive months with a price rise of more than 10%, today it is at 10.5%, as I said to you, and, more dangerously, the underlying inflation at 6.4%, indicating that the price rise has already moved to the entire value chain and everything points to the fact that it will not stop rising in the coming months. And while this happens, the state increases tax collection, as a result of the widening of the tax bases, and is in absolute record of collection, 22 283 million euros more in the first seven months, 18% more than last year, which was record collection, ladies and gentlemen. This is despite the fact that growth in this same period has been only 1,3 %, which shows that much of this increase in collection is a consequence of the rise in prices, as indicated by the AIReF, among other independent bodies. In other words, while millions of families are experiencing it worse than ever, the Government gives these same families more resources than ever by means of taxes; or, if they prefer, the same families who see 21.5 % poorer in the last year and a half, see how Mr Sánchez forces them to keep the government more expensive in history and with greater fiscal volocacy. Also with middle and low incomes; or, rather, especially with middle and low incomes, since the inflation that most affects those middle and low incomes. [[applause]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, poverty in Spain is increasing as never before. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards wonder where the government is, what it is doing to curb this spiral of prices that is causing millions of Spaniards not even to arrive in mid-month, who suffer the return to the most expensive school in history and who see how the share of their mortgage has increased by 1400 euros on average per year. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish are not for frivolities. What do you think you think when you know that your government is going to devote the next few months to a series of fiction on television? What do you think when you listen to a vice president say that she asks the big supermarkets to make aggressive offers on essential products to then ask the people to buy in the small shops that she is condemning to closing with her proposals, as well as many producers, ladies and gentlemen? Wouldn't it be easier to think about lowering VAT to some products? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen who support the Government, I imagine that no one will go up to this rostrum to defend the government's measures to contain inflation, which continues to rise and whose effect, according to official data, has been of little percentage point on a total of 10.5 points. I hope you do not have to go up here to say that the measures approved - some, by the way, copied to the People's Party, and welcome them - are sufficient to curb the price rise, when - and I repeat - we have been inflationing for three months above 10%. And I also hope that they do not come up here to argue that if the CPI is 10,5% compared to 10,8% of the previous month, it is because prices are falling, because it would be taking the Spaniards for fools. More measures are needed, we've been telling you for months. They called us catastrophes and insulted us all the time, but time is giving us reason. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish can't stand it anymore. It is urgent to stop this hidden rise in taxes, which is inflation, and to prevent families from paying inflation twice, in the shopping basket and when paying taxes, and to do so it is necessary to deflate the IRPF rate at least in the first three tranches, in order specifically to favour incomes below €40,000 per year, with adjustment of the deductions so that the effect is immediate, as well as to establish a new specific personal and family minimum and on a temporary basis that decreases as citizens' incomes increase. That is what the People's Party included in its economic plan handed over to the Government and to which it has not received an answer, ladies and gentlemen. I'm done. No one could understand, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the PNV, who are part of the Basque Government, that they have announced that they will adjust for the Basques for the second time all the sections and deductions of the IRPF and that these same parliamentary groups will deny it to the more than 44 million Spaniards who reside in the rest of the autonomous communities of the common system, which would be a clear discrimination between some people and others depending on where they reside or, worse still, on the partyist interests of the Government. [[Applauds]] I am convinced, Mr López, spokesman for the Socialist Group, that you do benefit from this adjustment applied in the Basque Country and that you will want the same for your colleagues from Castile and León, Aragon, Valencia, Extremadura or Catalonia, to give some examples. No one would understand that Mr López will vote otherwise. That is why I trust that, this time, the Socialists will support for the whole of Spain what they have approved for the Basque Country on two occasions already. The Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, of course, will vote for this tax reduction, as we have already done in all the autonomous communities governed by the PP, which have either opted for the fluctuation of the IRPF, or for lowering the autonomous type, so that they will ease the day-to-day lives of millions of Spaniards...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u97	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u98	I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give back to the Spaniards at least some of the more than 22 billion raised in these seven months of the year to return to the pockets of their legitimate owners to help them overcome this crisis. I imagine that you, who like to boast of being the people's government, will want to return that money to the people...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u99	Mr. Olano, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u100	...and not stay in Mr. Sanchez's government box. It's in your hands. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u101	Thank you, Mr. De Olano. In defence of the amendment made by your group, Mr González Coello of Portugal is speaking on behalf of the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u102	With venom, the president. More ultra, ladies and gentlemen, more ultra. We need to go beyond that. With inflation fired as we have and with the more than forty-two times - which I will then explain - that this government has raised taxes, we cannot say that we are going to deflate inflation only to the three small sections of the IRPF. The rest of the Spaniards, what are they, thieves, bandits? Don't you earn your savings and your money by working honestly? Why are they excluded from this deflation by the People's Party? That's why we encourage them to go beyond, beyond. We need the Spaniards to get the rent back. As you know very well, inflation does what it does is to reduce purchasing capacity, and the rise in taxes, progressiveness what it reduces is disposable income. The Government twice punishes the Spaniards with their misdeeds. Firstly, with a policy that generates higher inflation than that of the rest of the countries of the European Union. Switzerland, which has also experienced the COVID and which also suffers from the Ukraine war in Putin - before it is mentioned - has an inflation of 3.5%. And it also makes them lose disposable income by raising taxes, although the minister, who is not here, for a change, promised and promised that she would not raise them. Ms. Calviño stated that the increase in inflation was temporary and kept saying it basically until yesterday, speaking in colloquial terms. Well, it seems that Mrs. Calviño is always wrong, you'd have to put her in the Guinness record. It is true that the war in Ukraine has a negative effect on the CPI, no doubt, but it must be remembered that in February the CPI rose by 7.6% and the war began on 24 February; that is, inflation was already triggered. At the moment, the activity rate - as you know - is 58.71 against 74.3 in the European Union and the so-called Spanish poverty rate is 22.6 against 16.4%. This is the reality and it is obviously relevant to highlight it. The use of the European Central Bank to monetise the bulk of the debt generated by its obscene increase in spending along with its permanent refusal to introduce liberalisation measures to give more flexibility to markets and facilitate their adaptation to shocks has fuelled and accentuated the inflationary tensions of the Spanish economy. This is clearly shown by the increase in underlying inflation, which denotes the strong structural component of Spanish inflation. And if inflation is reduced a little bit, it doesn't mean that the Spaniards recover the lost, what it means is that they lose a little less purchasing power. Didn't anyone teach them in the faculty that price controls are an ineffective and harmful measure to fight inflation? Hacienda has made August with inflation and collects more than 22 billion euros. To explain it to you, a good year, the IRPF - which is the tax that most collects - collects 78 billion. Corporate tax in 2021 raised 26 billion; in 2019 it raised 23 billion. That is, without anyone approving this extra collection, the Government of the State is currently collecting more than $22 billion. This is a robbery, it's an indecency and it's immoral. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, inflation erodes the income of families and reduces competitiveness for businesses; that is, it overwhelmingly punishes those who create wealth in Spain and does more harm to the poorest. Its sole beneficiary is its Government, which is helped by the rise of the CPI to finance and continue its waste. This is not only aberrant in terms of economic rationality, but, as I said earlier, immoral. You express to the Spaniards to pursue their ideological purposes and, in return, offer them the crumbs of what they are taking away from us - the 400 euros for children, to buy video games, etc. -. They are impoverishing the Spanish middle class, which is in a unique situation in all these years of democracy, after having promoted 42 single tax revenues, 8 increases from the IRPF, 4 increases from the company tax, an increase from the property tax, an increase from the value added - even if they have dropped it -; in social contributions, 17 increases, 17 climbs!, equals those of the companies than those of the workers, because all the workers pay them and, therefore, we asked the People's Party to go a little further and we would ask for an ultra plus, go further. We are very pleased with this measure, and we very much thank the People's Party for echoing the report presented by the Dissenso Foundation in March of this year, which was published in all the media. By the way, by a professor who was the one who coined...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u103	Mr. González, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u104	I'm done. ... a professor who coined that phrase: lowering taxes is from the left, which he said at the beginning Zapatero. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u105	Thank you very much, Mr González. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez takes off his tie, but the government wears their boots. Hence, with tax revenues that have grown by 18% in the first seven months of 2022, it is inexcusable to deflate the IRPF and other measures that are promoted in this initiative, because the imbalance that the Spanish suffer as a consequence of the government's economic policy is gradually dragging society and the productive sectors into impoverishment. A year ago different national and international institutions, agencies and entities were warning of a bad economic drift, which paradoxically the Government then described as robust. Today, the beginning of the Lomlou course - with the most expensive textbooks in history -, the nonsense in which the shopping basket has become, the increase in production costs, as well as the price of light, fuels and gas, require urgent measures of the same bias or even more ambitious than those that are already taking several autonomous communities of different political signs. I shall reply with my vote in favour to the explanations given by Mr De Olano. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr De Olano said they would ask the Spaniards where the government is. Well, not here, of course; I don't know where he will be. In any case, it is interesting here to know what is the opinion of the Socialist Party, if they are going to vote as the Socialist Party of the Basque Autonomous Community, which is in favour of deflating the tariff, if they are going to vote as the Socialist Party of the Foral Community of Navarre, which were in favour of deflating the tariff a little bit, but very little, or if they are going to do as it seems that is what the Socialist Party is going to do here in Congress, that is to say, not deflating the tariff at all. I do not know whether there are people from the United Left within the Podemos Group, I suppose, that there will be some, because they voted in favour of deflating the tariff also in the Foral Community of Navarre. Therefore, I believe that referring to positions, depending on where everyone is, does one thing or another. But it is clear that the tariff should be deflated, because at the moment the feeling is that the government has taken the citizens of the ankles and has done so, until the last euro has fallen to them, in order to continue to maintain an administration absolutely disproportionate, including, of course, this government, in which what we have already seen is that a minister in this case acts as a minister. [[making the gesture of squirming]] If you are going to do your job, what you could do is also amortize that minister's job; but the shopping basket is getting more expensive every day, and there you can't fool the Spaniards. Everyone when they're going to make the purchase is paying a lot more. And wouldn't it be better to lower VAT on a number of products? Wouldn't it be better to deflate the rate so people have the money in their pocket and decide what they want to buy? Don't tell him you have to buy white chocolate, if what you want to buy are apples; don't tell people you have to buy crystal wipers, if you want to buy sardines. Here this Government intends to tell us, in addition to taking away all the money, where we can spend; that is, always as a government donation in its goodwill so that citizens do not starve. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Finally, Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that there are measures that should emerge from the political struggle. The truth is that sometimes some people try to put ideology into everything. This is not ideology, this is neither left nor right nor up or down; this is a question of justice. Inflation is maintained in two figures, it is maintained longer than expected. The underlying inflation confirms that this is going on for a long time. Markets raise interest rates because they want to curb consumption. And what does this translate into? That people pay more for the mortgage, for the loan, for the food, for the gasoline, for the basic goods. Ladies, what are we on? In other words, as a star measure, the interprofessional minimum wage is raised and we have supported it. What's the point? What are they telling the citizen? Look, we're going to raise you 100 euros a month, but then on the rent return you didn't pay anything last year and this year you'll pay 600; or last year you paid 1400 and this year you'll pay 2200. Ah! Well, the products you're consuming are also rising by 10%, of which we too are taking part. Ladies, it doesn't make sense! Either we're with who needs us or we're not. We can't get headlines out of what we're improving people's lives, but on the other hand, we take them out for taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, really, this is not about ideology, it is about putting money in the pockets of families. Deflation of the IRPF is not to give families another added sandblast in July of next year. Finally, we do not forget the mandate of this House. In June this House adopted a measure in the IRPF for palm trees and palm trees; a measure which comes to put forward the same thing that is done in Ceuta and Melilla, that is to say to deduct 60% of the IRPF; it was adopted in this House. Gentlemen of the government, absent, what are you going to do? Are they democrats just for what they're interested in? Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to seek solutions. You think you're turning your back on PP, but you're turning your back on families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u112	Thank you, President. This is not the first time we have discussed this issue; the fact is that my group has abstained on other occasions because we understood that it was necessary to quantify what some groups were proposing and because, moreover, at that time, the debate was about to deflate the tariff when that tax reform was to be opened, which seems to be not going to happen now, and that perhaps, perhaps, it could be designed with adjustment clauses that they consider inflation. The truth is that people's quality of life has begun to resent, hit by inflation; an inflation that remains the highest in Europe and that, although it has been reduced by a few tenths, it remains two-digit, which is making families' disposable income and savings shrink. Inflation, therefore, is causing us to spend - as has already been said here - much more than before on the bill of light and on almost any of the commodities in the shopping basket, because the cost of living has risen and the income of households is not growing because of this inflationary context; a problem that does not only affect families, although they are the most affected by rising prices, especially the most vulnerable families; an inflation that is causing a brake on consumption, also on investment, because all economic agents and consumers suffer from rising prices and also now from financing. Inflation affects us all, but not all of us suffer it equally or equally, because the fact is that the sacrifice that taxpayers with low incomes are to make is much greater than for taxpayers with medium or high incomes. In this context, all governments have taken action, but it is also true that taxes can help to reduce that inflation through deflating the IRPF and perhaps make that high-priced situation more manageable. Deflating the tariff or the IRPF is not lowering taxes, as some are saying, it is bearing the same tax that we bear if inflation did not exist, that is, that the same tax structure is maintained as before inflation. Another thing is that this tax structure is not the right one or not sufficiently progressive, and therefore perhaps it will have to be reviewed. In addition, it should be remembered that governments, although they also suffer from inflation, are, paradoxically, the great ones benefiting from increased collection via inflation and, therefore, at the moment, with persistent inflation, as I have said, with a structural underlying that continues to rise, we understand that it is also the governments that have to contribute and make a greater effort, because this will also enable them to be in a better position, if possible, to call for greater efforts at the moment. My group will be voting in favour of the proposal this time, because we consider it reasonable to adapt the rates and thresholds of other tax parameters - as personal minimums, family, reductions, deductions... - to the new inflation scenario. Furthermore, although - as I have said before - we have abstained from interfering in this debate on other occasions, today we want to support it for consistency with what we have done in Euskadi, that we have deflated the rate by 5.5%, that we have updated the amounts of the joint tax reduction, quota reduction and deductions by the same percentage, and that we have adjusted the withholding table applicable to labour yields from September so as not to wait to make the 2022 income by 2023 and then note the adjustment, but note it from now on. That's why we're going to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u114	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start this speech with two headlines these days: 'The INE confirms that inflation continued in August: the CPI grew by 10,5%'. 'Inflation leaves €22.2 billion more in the state's coffers until July than in 2021.' Inflation continues to grow month by month and the state is collecting more, and yet, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are opening up to give a small gesture to the citizenry and deflate the IRPF. I could go on with news that doesn't usually stop being bloody: 'The rise of the guys increases mortgages and loans'. 'The shopping basket is getting more expensive every day'. 'The return to school will entail a cost of 400 euros per child to families'. Price increases have been attacking the pockets of millions of families in our country for months. We are aware that this is a problem that affects in a global way and the importance of war, but also that the Government has shown an outstanding inability to deal with inflation that continues. No, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are not going to say that all inflation is the fault of management - moreover, it is not the first time that I say this in this rostrum - but it is the case that we are refusing to accept the measures that we in the opposition have been proposing for months that you have repeatedly denied for outright sectarianism. In March of this year, Citizens presented to the Government a document with a battery of short- and medium-term measures to address the economic crisis. Some, such as the fall in VAT on electricity or fuel taxes, have left no choice but to adapt it, although it has cost us months of delay to all Spaniards; others, unfortunately, are still waiting for their umpteenth correction: for example, to bet on nuclear power or on the subject that concerns us today, which is to deflate the IRPF, something that, by the way, we Liberals, Citizens, have been asking for since the beginning of the year and we brought it to debate in this House when no one had noticed it. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will remember, so I am surprised that you will bring back a measure almost similar to ours months later. It seems that, like the Government, you too take a short time to get on the boat of good measures. But we welcome it, because if it were approved today, it would be a success for all Spaniards. I do remember that debate, and I have to tell Mr Hurtado, of the Socialist Party, that I agree with something he said that day - only one thing - that the People's Party, in the seven years it was ruling, did not intend to deflate that tariff. [[Mr. De Olano Vela makes negative gestures]] In the last few years. Don't worry, Mr. Olano, I'm already seeing you. In the end, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the Socialist Party, you are not so different, you just have to remember how you agreed to apply a blast to the autonomous with the latest reform of the RETA. Then they came to say that they were very concerned about the problem of inflation, but that it could not be addressed, as we proposed in Citizens. Inflation then stood at 7.4%, inflation today stands at 10.5%. Similarly, the recipe of this Government is not the most appropriate, as seen. But on the subject, what are we talking about, when we say we want to deflate the IRPF? It's simple: the IRPF that Finance charges to workers regulates it some tables, in which at higher wages, the higher the tax. So far, all logical, except for the problem that today calls for heaven: the current thresholds of the IRPF have remained unchanged since 2015. Neither with the PP nor with the PSOE has there been substantial changes until, now, in this legislature, in Citizens we proposed to be able to reduce and deflate those sections. Over the same period, the CPI has increased by more than 12%, an inflation that has increased the wages of workers, but not their purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen, with an inflation of 10.4% if the wage rises by 2% it is not richer, on the contrary, but the Treasury does charge you as if you really were. This implies that thousands of taxpayers are taxing on a stretch that really does not correspond to them, and are paying more taxes to the Treasury without their purchasing capacity having increased. In other words, it is a covert rise in taxes to citizens whose economic capacity is worse today than yesterday. And we are talking about tax increases, ladies and gentlemen, because this is something that the government could avoid by adapting the tax sections, as we have asked in this House on several occasions. It is very simple, ladies and gentlemen, to explain to us the citizens who refuse to update the IRPF rates to inflation just to continue expressing them, and, above all, with a record collection of EUR 22 billion since January. What do you plan to do with that collection? We tell them from the liberal party: what they have to do is deflate the IRPF rate, because that's what citizens need now, having the money in their pocket. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. A previous one: among the measures proposed earlier by the PP was to compensate electricians with public money if it reduced those people who could save, which, obviously, are not the lowest incomes; that is, to give public money of all electricians so that they do not lose, please, a single cent and continue to maintain their scandalous profits. Today they put forward a proposal to deflate the IRPF and to establish a new personal and family minimum. We basically agree; and I say basically. It will basically affect average incomes and, therefore, nothing to oppose us, but unfortunately, the lowest incomes will hardly affect them, there will be no discounts, there will be little to nothing. I would like this measure to have another measure: to compensate for all this by raising the IRPF to the highest incomes. There are 246,000 holders of large fortunes in the Spanish state, 4.4% more than in the previous year. Does it deflate their fashion, too? The right thing would be to leave it to middle and low rents and to go up to high, among other things, to have money to help those who need it the most. And I'm done. There's one part of the state IRPF and one autonomous. Are they already doing what they propose here today in the autonomous communities where they govern? Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u117	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u118	Thank you, President. We are now going to reject somewhat demagogic debates as to whether inflation fills the Government's coffers, etc., and let us look specifically at what this is about and what the proposal is about, which, unlike others, I believe is much better drafted. In the 1970s, Professor José Luis Sampedro defined inflation as the tax on the poor. And it makes sense. Why? Because inflation, which is the reflection of the CPI, of the evolution of the consumer price index, what does it prove? That those parts of income where they devote most of their income to consumption, and not to savings, at a time when consumer prices are much higher, are, in fact, much more affected. Therefore, the proposal to deflate the first tranches of income seems reasonable to us, and it seems reasonable to us in the terms in which they present it. We understand that should be done. I believe that the deflation proposal also points out that it may have to be made progressively, that the same percentage should not be applied to all the sections on which it is deflation. We are therefore going to vote in favour. And beyond positions, I don't say dogmatic, because, after all, when one analyzes in historical perspective what governments have done, there have been governments of all colors that have deflated, we understand that this would be a reasonable time for it to be implemented, and not only by the Government of the General Administration of the State, by the central Government, also by the autonomous communities. I also hope that action will be taken in this regard in my Autonomous Community in Catalonia. And this is not to change the progressiveness of the IRPF, that is not to benefit the higher incomes, that is to return this tax to the poor, which is not a tax that the State charges, but just as, through spending policies, we try to alleviate the greatest cost for the most disadvantaged citizens, it also has to be done deflating the IRPF. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative and hope that it will prosper. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. It is not the first time that from the benches on the right we are urged to update tax rates in the IRPF in order to correct what they call an undercover tax, derived from the inflationary process we are currently living in. As I see it, there are, Mr Olano, two criticisms of departure and then, if I may, one of substance. To begin with, I will tell you that it is somewhat tiring to check the lack of creativity that has been installed in your economists, at least in certain reference economists. After more than an already long year of cycle, at a time when international debate is taking place on the need to work on new models of forecasting and economic intervention, when new policies are just being outlined and implemented to avoid greater social suffering, you stand out with the usual proposal: to lower taxes, to lower taxes. I will therefore tell you, Mr Olano, that you are guilty of lazy matters, at least. I will have to admit that you have not been crushed by the meninges writing this initiative. The second thing is to warn them of the objective error, which is certainly induced by ideological reasons - I do not blame it - of thinking that the State benefits per se from the phenomenon of inflation. You may forget that if, in fact, there is an increase in the collection attributable to this phenomenon, he himself is compensated, among other things, for the second round effects that the State itself will have to face. In other words, both public benefits and wages should experience an equivalent nominal increase in order to avoid a deterioration, either in the purchasing capacity of officials or in the purchasing power of the State or both. I therefore see nothing more than the old right-wing prejudice against the social state or, well, perhaps not so much, because, as Mr Baldoví has already warned you, if you really believed that there had been a fiscal damage to citizenship, you would have already deflated the autonomous sections in those autonomous communities where you govern. Finally, and by entering into the specific contents of your initiative, of your GNP, you present a series of data from which it would be possible to deduce that excess from which, in your opinion, the State always benefits. They then start from an increase in collection for the first half of the year compared to the same period of the previous year of 18.3% - they say in their initiative -. Let us assume - which is very much to assume, Mr Olano - that the widening of the tax bases is due exclusively to inflation. You know it's not true, but let's assume it was. We do not introduce into the calculation the actual economic growth experienced in this semester - which you yourselves recognize in a 1,3-, nor the improvement of the collection efficiency that probably has experienced the Tax Agency during this period. That is to say, 16.5 billion euros overcollected, according to their terms; he bought the hypothesis. Let us see, only the reduction of VAT on electricity, Mr Olano, only that reduction from 21% to 5%, as you well know, has meant a decrease for the public coffers of 8 billion euros - that is the official data -. That is, we would have eaten half of that apparent excess by a single palliative measure that has already been implemented. In addition, direct aid to the electro-intensive industry, the transport sector, farmers and dairy farmers, fuel subsidies, the extraordinary increase in non-contributory pensions, etc. Thus to reach the figure of about 15 billion euros that is the expenditure assumed so far in measures of encouragement and support to families to deal precisely with the social cost generated by inflation. Come on, Mr. Olano, at best, I ate it for what was served. What do I mean by that? Basically, that the Government is already doing to sustain delicate fiscal balances that are now being undermined by a looming crisis. Of course, and as you are seeing, this also means lowering certain taxes in certain circumstances, but not only that, Mr Olano. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen of both the PP and the Citizens - who have also insisted on this - I do not ask you to deny your ideology, but at least you do assume the novelty of the challenges we face and the need to think outside the box, out of the box, something that I fear you do not dare. It also serves this small national accounting exercise to fly a pen that I had previously done to describe precisely the fragility of these balances to which I referred and, therefore, to warn about the need to undertake as soon as possible that profound reform of the Spanish tax and tax system, which - let us say it at once - is not prepared to endure the time that comes to us. A reform in which my group certainly does not close to introducing adjustment mechanisms in certain contexts, as you propose, and as the Basque Government has just implemented - I quote this initiative because you yourself mention it in the GNP -. But before that, other central tax issues, such as the brutal imbalance that exists in Spain today between income from wages and business profits, must be resolved in order to contribute to the state's support.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u121	Mr. Guijarro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not deal with this debate urgently - I am already done with this, Madam President - if profound changes in fiscal matters are not implemented now, given the complicated horizon that opens up to us, I fear that the duck will soon be paid the usual ones, and honestly we do not come here for that. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We have already told the Government three times that it does not deflate the IRPF, and it has learned; the Government is well aware that it should not deflate the IRPF because we have told it. The deflation of the IRPF is a covert decline of the IRPF. That's Mr. Feijoo's star measure to fight against inflation, he has no other. Well, it's based on four lies and one silence. The first, you never unravelled the IRPF in the seven years, never paraded the IRPF. And I will tell you more, the last year that Mr Zapatero deflated -2008 - there was an inflation of 1.4%, and Mr Montoro said they were voting against because it had a second-round effect against inflation; they never voted in favour. And you know why they didn't? Because you didn't lower taxes, you raised all taxes; the IRPF with a supplementary tax that collects 14 billion euros, and you took the money out of your pocket to the working middle class for three consecutive years. [[Applauds]] So, never. First lie. Second lie: you banned the deflation of the IRPF. They approved Law 2/2015 on the desindexation of the Spanish economy, which they sent as a star reform to Brussels during the years 2012 and 2013. In its article 1, they prohibited the fluctuation of taxes through that law. Thirdly, it is totally regressive. You say it benefits the first three stages, but it's a lie. The one who wins 300,000 benefits three times, for the three tranches, and the one who is earning 12,450 euros does not benefit from any tranche. A deflation of 3% - I will put it to you - means that the income of the milleurists, for whom we work, for whom we have approved the 200 euros of aid, would not benefit anything from this fluctuation. An income of 22,000 euros would save 18 euros on the income tax return, but you know that those who earn 300,000 euros would save 350 euros on the income tax return. It's a totally regressive measure. And another lie, the fourth lie, is that you say that you relieve the economy and that the largest tax collection is due to inflation. No, Mr Olano, the largest tax collection is due to the magnificent behaviour of the labour market. In 2021, 840 000 jobs were created, wages rose by 36% of the inter-professional minimum wage, labour reform eliminated job insecurity and exceeded 20 million social security contributors. This increased the tax base of the IRPF, that is the factor that mainly affects the highest collection. And you say you're relieved. Look, I am no longer going to make you a report of what you voted against, which were genuine reliefs to the working middle class, I am not going to tell you about the fall in VAT, which you opposed, nor of the 200 euros, to what you opposed, as to so many other measures. I will just give you a summary: we are at the head of the whole European Union in terms of countries that devote public resources precisely to alleviating families and businesses. [[shows a graph]] We are among the first, of the countries that are making the most effort against you, because we have pulled you into the lung with the help of the left parties and against all the right parties, against all measures. [[Applauds]] And then the silence, ladies and gentlemen. Don't talk about something that is going to mean a huge sacrifice: the rise in interest rates. Why don't you criticize the rise in interest rates?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u125	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u126	I will conclude, Your Honor. Why don't you criticize him? Because monetary policy, which is the one that fights inflation, is decided by the European Central Bank, where the vice-president is an ex-minister of the People's Party. That is why they do not criticise the rise in interest rates, which is going to be the largest of the sacrifices to be made. And I'm telling you more, fighting just against control and supporting inflation control...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u127	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u128	It's over. ... It means supporting the recovery plan - which they have not supported - to improve the competitiveness of our companies and, of course, to reduce taxes exclusively on energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u130	We then proceeded to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the situation of independent audiovisual production in Catalonia. With this item on the agenda we conclude today's debate. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u131	Thank you, President. Good evening, Members of Parliament. Invoicing data and the number of companies in the Catalan audiovisual sector in the years 2020 and 2021 refer to an audiovisual sector consisting of several business segments, of which three main ones stand out: media, audiovisual entertainment and advertising communication. In this year 2022 it is assumed that billing will be much better, and that the aciago 2020, the year of the explosion of the COVID-19, in which the cultural sector as a whole, and the audiovisual sector in particular, suffered a lot, is lagging behind. [[The Lord]] It is clear that the Catalan audiovisual sector is a sector with a lot of muscle and a projection of the future. It is a sector formed mostly by small and medium-sized enterprises and autonomous ones that are able to work with the world's major audiovisual platforms if needed, or that are able to produce successful films like Pa Negre or Alcarràs. The audiovisual sector is very important because it creates us imaginary, because it explains us as a society, because it explains our landscapes and our ways of doing it. It is important because we have great professionals in the sector, with a lot of talent, and at the same time it is a very powerful industry, with a lot of growth potential in a world where everything is already audiovisual. Last June, the General Act on Audiovisual Communication was adopted, with the last-minute abstention of the People's Party, a change of position that occurred due to the agreement reached by the socialist government with the PP to change the definition of independent producer, so that it will benefit the business conglomerate of the television duopoly that dominates the market in the Spanish state. They changed only one word, only one, and with this word the meaning of the definition completely changed. This change left the audiovisual production sector in Catalonia, formed largely by SMEs and self-employed, in a very bad position in front of the duopoly and the large Spanish private television channels, which can now outsource the creation of fiction in their own producers. The association of independent producers of the Spanish State, PROA, assured after the adoption of the law that they were disappointed and concerned about the final adoption of a general law on audiovisual communication harmful to independent production. We have ahead of us several legislative initiatives, for example, the law of cinema, where we can fix this nonsense. Let us define again what independent production is, because if we consider everyone independent, no one will be independent. We also developed an independent audiovisual production support plan designed in conjunction with the sectors concerned. In short, let's make the necessary legislative changes for many more films like Alcarràs to come out. Today, by the way, we want to congratulate the director, actors and the entire film team for their selection to represent the Spanish state at the next Gala de los Oscars. Congratulations to all the people of Alcarrás. We have a chance to do all these things. Let's take advantage of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u132	Thank you. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs García Puig, the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u133	Thank you very much. Before I begin my speech, and as a spokesperson for culture in my parliamentary group, I would like to have a few brief words in memory of writer Javier Marías, who left us just two days ago. I want to express my condolences to your family and friends, but also to the entire reading and literature-loving community, and for that I would like to read a few words - which, although decontextualized, seem precious to me - that make you say to a character in your novel Heart so white. They say: 'I can shut up and shut up forever, but one believes that you want more because it counts secrets, counting seems so many times a gift, the greatest gift that can be made, the greatest loyalty, the greatest proof of love and surrender. And they do merit by counting.' Thank you very much, Javier Marías, for choosing to count. [[Applauds]] On the subject of the motion before us, my group shares the concern of the proposing group about the situation in the independent audiovisual sector. In fact, we have agreed on a compromise to move this motion forward. We have made amendments that push the motion a little further on two issues. One of them is that we miss this motion to put on the table one of the aberrant problems in the audiovisual sector: gender inequality. According to a study by DAMA, only 14.8% of professionals in film and series management in Spain are women, and there is also a wage gap, because they charge 23% less than men. We also have a lot of data from Dones Visuals that doesn't give me time to put on the table, but they do a magnificent job by revealing these injustices. That is why we have proposed an amendment that has been accepted; we have come to a compromise wording and we are very happy about it. It is easy today to be proud of Carla Simon's work and success. We are all very happy today that a film like Alcarràs has been chosen to represent Spain in the Oscars, a film directed by a woman and made in Catalan. But we must seize this opportunity, this visibility of Carla Simon to ask ourselves how many more Carla Simon are in the shadow of this gender inequality. We have also wanted to include a linguistic perspective that pushes the motion a little further, as we already wanted to do with the law of audiovisual, so that not only the languages recognized by the statute, but also those that are in process, as the Asturian could be. And I think it's good to remember one thing today, that the proposing group rules in Catalonia, so we trust and support that the Generalitat draws up a good Catalan audiovisual law that satisfies all sectors and groups that demand change, that this law is respected and that it does not pass as in the law of cinema, that many of the linguistic articles have remained on wet paper. Finally, I wanted to stop for a moment in a phrase that caught my attention and that I especially liked the motion. You say: 'In addition, the audiovisual sector is very important because of its ability to create imagination, to explain society, to portray our landscapes and ways of doing, to express and to create culture throughout the term'. We fully agree with this statement and therefore, taking into account its pacts with some nationalist political groups that have a vision of the Catalan reductionist and elitist culture, we would like to remind them that the Catalan institutions and all institutions have to work to recognize and promote all cultural expressions, also those that do not respond to a nationalist, identity, classist, exclusionary vision, and that this must also be reflected in our cinema. How many Carla Simon are too often lost in the precariousness that exists in the same cities and in the same family origins! Let me remind you of what singer Alizzz says in his last song, "What's going on? I quote: 'I'm a choni, an ignorant / A shamego de peripheralia / Rodalies feta shit / Enderrock can't see me / What's wrong, I'm not happy / Cultural elites are also ours'. So, apply the story or, rather, the song, to the cultural policies they also do from the Generalitat. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u134	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u135	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion is understood very quickly by reading what the representatives of ERC have already said in the inquiry into which this motion is born. The Republican Parliamentary Group agreed with its group, the PSOE, to withdraw the amendment to the entire 2022 General Budgets in exchange for the General Audiovisual Communication Act being negotiated and approved with the ERC independents. This is blackmail. This is another step in the ongoing and permanent blackmail of independence for all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And in this case, with hostages: the sector of independent production and the freedom of expression of the Spaniards on social networks where they manage to accumulate a little audience that disposes of the nerves to you, to you and to the usual Those are the ones you have kidnapped and that is blackmail. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, respectively]] [[Applauds]] Because you and you, PP and PSOE, were portrayed in the famous law. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Because you want the duopoly, the duopoly that's got you caught up in the news. And you, the ERCs and the Independenceists, want the tripoly. What you want is a monopoly, moreover, local in your territory, with the excuse of languages. So don't come here and defend the independent producers. You only defend 'indepes' producers, which is a very different thing. [[Applauds]] It's a little painful - it's a little painful - because you're still fooled by the tahur. It is already very painful; it is that they have already failed them in the Commission; it is that they have failed them in the presentation; it is that they have lied here, in the parliamentary debate; it is that they have lied to them in the Senate, and here they come to crawl before Pedro Sánchez to say: what about me? Pedro, give me the argo. [[Laughter]] He's not gonna give it to them. What I should give them is shame. [[Applauds]] Look, if you're gonna be blackmailers, learn from the good guys. The PNV can give you lessons, which also support you with general state budgets that, two days later, stab you, as Mr Rajoy knows. [[Applauds]] Stabbed as the day after day by the duopoly of Atresmedia and Mediaset to the People's Party, who gives himself timid and handed himself over to that duopoly that he created and that he continues to be afraid of because he's been caught up in the news, and you'll know what the news is! Because these are the same producers who are going to make the sauna massage series to 'his holiness', the same producers who also charge from Spanish Television. They are the same ones that you have supported from the PP, from the PSOE and those that you want to have exclusively in your territories, which you intend to dominate. [[Applauds]] Who pays for the duck? Because what you put into that law is the limitation of the freedom of expression of Spanish people on social networks. That's what you, you and you, all together, managed to get into that law. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, respectively]] But no one talked about it because we were left alone. Look, we have to defend freedom, we have to avoid duopoly, we have to eliminate the tripoly and monopoly that you want to have in your territories that you consider your own and, above all, we have to stop once and for all the propaganda of you, of you and, territorially, of you that we pay all the Spaniards. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, respectively]] We've got to get rid of that propaganda now. [[Applauds]] That is why the VOX Parliamentary Group will now demand full and absolute transparency so that the Spanish know how much public money they receive from governments. Let them declare, let them be transparent and that when we open a newspaper, let us watch a television or let us see a series let us know how much money you, you or you have given them [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, respectively.-Applause]] And, above all, I can tell you one thing. Someday there will be a government with sufficient dignity - and in that government there will be VOX, or VOX will support it - to repeal this audiovisual law, which is all it does is hand over complete control of information and entertainment to the usual: the duopoly and the 'indepe' triopoly. Someday we will repeal that law for that reason, for the freedom of all Spaniards to receive information and entertainment free and created by independent producers. And we will also repeal it because it goes against the freedom of those who manage to get some attention on social networks. Because you're already going against influencers, against tickets or youtubers. You know why? Because they are not controlled by the duopoly, because they are not controlled by the political duopoly, nor by the media duopoly, nor by the independenceist monopoly of blackmail and extortion. Let the extortion end and let the freedom of expression of the Spaniards live. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u136	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lamuà Español has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u137	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, confusing dialogue and the pact with blackmail shows how little you know about democracy and how much you despise it. [[Applauds]] You are a disgrace to Spanish democracy. Because how difficult the path of dialogue is, ladies and gentlemen, but how good it feels when it bears fruit. Today we have made a good compromise between several groups for the benefit of the audiovisual sector. In dialogue, in the pact, in the encounter and in the efforts that struggle to carry it out no one comes out with everything that entered, but everyone comes out stronger and better. And most importantly, for the benefit of the citizens we represent and must defend. We have been in Catalonia for years with some settled in everything or nothing, in everything or anything, in it or yes or yes or yes, and we have been running out too many times, unfortunately, with nothing at all. A Catalonia with an audiovisual culture so powerful as to generate Pa Negre or our representative in the Oscars, Alcarràs; an audiovisual sector, the Catalan, very powerful and that, like so many other sectors, has suffered and suffers today because of the maximalisms of some. Breaking the worst, best, that so many opportunities have made us lose everyone, to walk the path of dialogue is good news for all Catalans, for all Spaniards as well and, of course, for their culture and for Spanish audiovisual. Let's not miss a chance again in this competitive world, because after a few years of bad for our culture, reduced to being politically framed within other ministries, everything that we can recover, everything that we can generate in your favor, everything will be little for the return in cultural wealth and international prestige that returns us with increasing and with all the effort and capital invested our culture and our cultural sectors. Spain does not forget the cultural policies of the People's Party. We still don't know what Feijóo is proposing. He has said nothing, for he seems to care nothing about culture. And it's not a free statement, ladies and gentlemen, because since it says nothing, let's look at what you've done. In the same way that Heart so white, from Marys, it started with that so well known 'I did not want to know, but I knew that...Feijóo, in perfect antithesis to Juan Ranz, is persecuted by a 'I wanted you not to know, but you have known what...' Because when Feijóo goes to Catalonia and says that protecting Catalan is compatible with linguistic cordiality, I can only think about what he would like us not to know but we do know what he did with his governments in Galicia; how he was charged with the transversal pact by the Galician language that the Government of Turin had created; how from his rise to power the Galician language has been seen in constant recession. I am sure that the PP would want us to know all that, but we know how its laxity has decimated the Galician language; how this cordial bilingualism has led to systematic ill-treatment of the Galician; how the Council of Europe has been censoring in its reports on the use of minority languages the loss of the Galician presence in education; how the popular governments asphyxiate the Concello economically so that it can be less and less a voice that explains everything the popular government does against the Galician language. [[applause]] The Conseil da Cultura Galega has suffered persecution and has been systematically ignored in all its reports. The linguistic cordiality of Feijóo must be to cut the budget for the promotion of the Galician language to more than half between 2009 and 2022, from 21.8 million to 10.1 million euros. That's Feijóo's cordial bilingualism. That's why Feijóo doesn't want Spanish culture to know what he's done in Galicia, and that's why it's so important to know. Of those who have decimated their own culture on their land, what can we expect from the rest? ; from whom has allowed the languishing of his own language, what can we expect from the rest? What can we expect from those who first did in the government pact of Castile and León to give Culture to VOX? What can we expect from those who gift culture to the far right? [[Applauds]] [[Protests]] It's over, President. In the face of all this, we must protect our culture, our cultures, our languages, our audiovisual sectors...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u138	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u139	It's over, President. For this reason, we must tell the People's Party and Feijóo that we will not in any way be allowed to be robbed of our culture, of our languages...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u140	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u141	It's over, President. ...of our Alcarràs, of our Carla Simón, because it is of all the Spaniards, and we already know that the People's Party, with what it is of all, always has a very long hand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u142	Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have been drawn to the attention of the motion put forward by Esquerra that of the three points on the motion the Squerra spokesman has only referred to the first two; he has not spoken of the third, which is precisely the one referring to languages. I do not know if you have done so, so as not to open a debate, perhaps at this time, when there are a few days left for the next Sunday in Barcelona to have a demonstration to defend Spanish against the Catalan government that President Esquerra, who is crushing those people who want to speak Spanish in Spain. I don't know if you've preferred to ignore the language, but other speakers have taken it out. And then there's the famous deal. As you make all the agreements in hidden places, in the dark, because then you come up, and when the budget comes and you say that you will agree it in exchange for the famous law and that precisely point 3o, that Catalan appears with other official languages in different formats, etc., to give you... Because you know that the big problem you have with language is that, as the most international languages are those that are used around the world to communicate primarily with young people, or do so out of obligation, or you know that you will not voluntarily do so, and then you need measures like that. You talk to the government, the government tells you, like everyone else: 'of course, don't worry', you vote on the budget and when the time comes to pass the law, you pass it with others. And you stay. But let no one be deceived, they present an amendment because this subject, in the background, they care little, because you have agreed - as happens to Euskal Herria Bildu - not appear on the papers. The good, big, interesting agreements that you have with sanchismo do not appear in any role, those are not debated in Congress; those we will end up suffering all the Spaniards, all the Catalans will end up suffering when they are carried out. And, of course, they are not agreements that can be explained here - in no case - because they transcend the powers that you and the President of the Government of Spain have. These agreements pass, of course, from what we have already seen, how were the famous pardons that were not going to be given; it passes, of course - in that case - through the approach to the prisoners for their subsequent freedom, and passes through other steps that are going to be taken. But what about you? They will not have time, because time is running out and they will have the bad luck that in the end in Spain - at the moment, and despite some - there is still democracy and, as there will be elections, after those elections Sánchez will no longer be president of the Government of Spain. So, you're putting up with everything to see if you can get to the end with your agreements, but I have to tell you that you're not going to get to the end, because before that there will be elections and after those elections Sanchez will not be president of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u144	Thank you. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u145	Thank you, President. We support without any doubt the motion presented by ERC's colleague; we support it simply because supporting it is doing the right thing, because of that value of doing the right thing, which is sometimes lost by all those dark labyrinths that politics is capable of creating and that always lead us to a scenario of subjection to spurious pressures. So let's get out of that dark maze that involved the adoption of the General Audiovisual Communication Law in which the already famous so-called provider magically appeared in Article 122.1, a last-minute trick for the exclusive benefit of that so-called provider with very adverse consequences for independent producers and with harmful effects in the future for the audiovisual culture of the State and our peoples. This motion before us today has the virtue of focusing on three key issues of the recently passed law. The first, which, after the adoption of the law, requires a plan to support independent production designed with all the actors involved; it is necessary, no doubt, because audiovisual law does not protect, but removes protection from independent production. Second, that the definition of independent audiovisual production, as set out in the General Audiovisual Communication Act, is a genuine fallacy in calling independent what can only be called cross-dependent production, and it needs to be amended. And finally we support the motion because in this State, where more than 40% of the population lives in territories of minority languages, the legislation must respond to that reality and that is not the case, because the scheme applied in the law remains common language, first-class language for Spanish and second-class for other languages which, do not forget, are also official. We are talking about this motion and we are talking about the dark present that this law offers to the audiovisual landscape, and we are talking about the importance that public bodies bet properly on independent productions to ensure the future heritage of audiovisual, the generational renewal of the sector and, ultimately, a healthy and competitive industry. And we need to talk about the necessary transparency in order to know how this cake of independent production is to be distributed, a part to which they have been invited, without corresponding to them, producers who in no case respond to what common sense, the sense of cultural responsibility and not even the European directive consider to be independent production. And right now we're afraid that this cake is already being distributed. And right now we're afraid that this cake is already being distributed. To speak of defending audiovisual production is to speak of this, of a horizon with more light and less shadows for the sector, in the same way as to promote the policies necessary for official languages to be included in audiovisual production and in the catalogues of the major platforms is to preserve the cultural future of the citizenry. In our country, in Euskal Herria, this is necessary and urgent. Social initiatives such as Pantailak Euskara have seen this, which is already putting its efforts into campaigns and actions so that new generations can enjoy, live and grow with audiovisual content in our language. Precisely today, Pantailak Euskara has published data on the presence of Basque in this audiovisual field. In the Zinemaldia of Donostia, which opens on Friday, the presence of the euskera is 10% and within the films that compete in the official section of the festival, of a total of 109 projections, not one is in euskera. In the television space, Basque has a presence of 6%; in the cinemas of Euskal Herria, 1%; in the streaming platforms, 0.1%. This is the reality. Where are the rights of Basque speakers? For all these reasons, we support the motion, which can also serve as a second chance for those who made a serious mistake at the time when they passed a law that responds to interests that are not the right ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, judging by what your representative has said here, it seems that you will somehow take this opportunity and if you do, you will simply do it to do the right thing. We'll be happy about it. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u146	Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm gonna step in from the seat. This motion by Esquerra Republicana, which is the result of an inquiry, finds a reality, defends a sector and denounces a modification in its operative part; that is, it notes the reality of the Catalan audiovisual sector, defends the Catalan audiovisual sector and denounces the modification of the definition of independent production. In the resolution, he said that the Government was bringing in a plan to support independent audiovisual production, that it would change the definition of an independent producer and, finally, that official languages should be included in the streaming platforms on demand. There would have been no motion if there had been no audiovisual law. We voted in favour, after a long and hard negotiation with the Government, and the truth is that the text that was adopted in this House was much better than the original text that came out of the Government's workshops. We managed to protect Basque self-government, the governance of the media themselves in the case of Euskadi, and that there would be a greater presence of the Basque. Is this a law that really satisfies us? No, not at all. Is that our law? Neither, but it's better than the original. Now, we agree with what Esquerra Republicana proposes in his motion, which, by the way, Mr Lamuà, the motion is from Esquerra, not the PP, because all he has done is talk about Feijóo. In any case, we agree with what they are proposing, because the European directive on which the general audiovisual law is based makes an exact definition of what should be independent audiovisual production, and this law should respond to that request of what the independent producer is, but we believe that at the last moment, almost out of time, not with very good arts - of course, Parliament gives for everything - a different approach was modified and raised with which we do not agree at all. At the last moment too, of course, as you know, several united groups tabled an amendment so that this would not take effect, but, well, the Socialist Party and the People's Party made that clear and agreed on that new definition of independent producer which changed the original version and what the European directive says should be independent production. We therefore agree with the three points raised by Esquerra Republicana and we want this issue to be reversed as soon as possible, because the audiovisual sector, as Mr Margall has said, is powerful in Catalonia, but I believe that in other places, in Euskadi itself, we also have a powerful audiovisual sector and we have a government that is supporting, even respecting, the concept of independent producer as it should be. From there they have emerged, thanks to the help that has been provided, productions that have later seen the light, such as Maixabel, Five Lobitos, Akelarre, El pito and many more. [[The lady]] Therefore, thanks to the fact that in the Basque Country we have a government of our own that supports this sector, a muscle sector, a living sector, a sector capable of making large productions, I hope that it will be modified and that the real independent producers will be able to continue to work. Thank you very much and nothing more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u149	Thank you, President. Esquerra says that they are concerned about the Catalan audiovisual sector in this motion, but when one looks at the matter in depth, he realizes that what they want is to impose on the audiovisual sector a language: Catalan. It is much more competitive, cost-effective and simple to shoot in Catalan than in Spanish or any other language. The truth about the imposition of languages is that these days we have a lot of news. Children in Catalonia and their families know something. Nationalism is so brave that it pursues and points out children who want to receive its teaching also in Spanish. The judges go out to defend the rights of children and their families, the Government of the Generalitat says it does not intend to comply with what the judges and the PSOE, with its nationalist branch, the PSC, say it will support the non-fulfilment of sentences. It is very important, by the way, that the demonstration of 18 September, in defence of the rights of these children, be plentiful and that the parents of the School of All feel the support of all. In any case, the independent audiovisual sector in Catalonia must be defended. Never is the audiovisual sector less independent than when it governs nationalism. The greatest evidence of the audiovisual model that Esquerra Republicana wants is TV3, and I will give you some examples of the audiovisual work that nationalists do. Warning: they will check the superiority of the cultured speech and the deep thought used by the intellectuals who promote nationalism. Look, an example, like this, flies feather. On TV3 they use the term ñordo as a kind of Spanish. [[showing a document]] I'm telling you. Cristina Puig, on a TV3 show, asked one of her guests if she considered the television space she presented to be crude or independent. The guest asked him: What is gnore? And this Puig woman said to him, "It means Spanish. Another presenter, anointed by nationalism, Quim Masferrer, said the Spaniards are fucking bastards and a panda of sarnosos. [[showing a document]] What a Golden Century the Republic would have promised with these literatures. No wonder they deny Josep Pla with these glories of lexicon. But let us continue with more examples: Llucià Ferrer. [[Show a document]] TV3 prevents answering children in Spanish in a contest. What did this guy do? For in a question-answer type program he asked a girl: What cereal is made of the most traditional Italian pasta? And the girl said to him, "Can I answer in Spanish?" And he said, "Oh, no, that's not. What a nice Llucià. Well, that couldn't be done on TV3 either. There are more examples, I could make a monograph of this for several days. The last thing about TV3 in a children's program: I speak Spanish because that's how I look worse. [[showing a document]] This is a guy who appeared disguised as a giant squid, Josep Maria Lari, who said: I am a giant squid and I come to eat a princess. This he said in Spanish and then he said already in Catalan: I speak Spanish because that's how I look worse. Hey, what an obsession with the kids, by the way, yours. We continue with examples. The case of BricoSeries, presented by Jair Domínguez and this Peyu. They are also a high-speaker of nationalism and often repeat the Spanish whore syntagma on TV3. They also described them as thieves to Spaniards and gypsies. The Gypsies are very proper, because we already know that racism is the hallmark of Catalan nationalism. My dog smells like Spanish thieves is one of the phrases these guys say. There's one last example I brought you, graphic and very striking. [[Show a document]] The TV3 show, the motherfucking Spain, that everyone knows about that mote, asks anyone who wants to learn Spanish to go to Salamanca. This is magnificent too. Well, look, these are the presenters. Maybe someone says: we've had bad luck and things have gone wrong, but no. If we take into account that the director of TV3, Joan Oliver, said that the Spaniards are chorizos for the mere fact of being Spanish, because it is all clear. We also have Toni Soler, who called the Mossos d'Esquadra dogs and asked them to put in jail, for example, my partner, Nacho Martín Blanco, I suppose because he's a citizen. Soler brings 6 million euros a year of public money. And he ended up with the nice guys from BricoSeries, who, holding a piece of iron, said in his show, "Can this piece of iron sink someone's skull?" To a civilian guard, for example? Do not be mistaken, do not deceive them; this, the piece of iron sinking the skull of a civil guard, is the audiovisual project of nationalism in Catalonia. We'll vote no, of course. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u150	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u151	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin this speech by welcoming the Academy's election of Carla Simon's film, Alcarràs, to represent us in the Oscars, an issue that Mr Díaz could, by the way, have mentioned at some point in his speech, and he might be happy that cultural policies in Catalonia also have this as a consequence. I say that because you have quoted a lot of things and this has been overlooked just today. [[Mr. Díaz Gómez utters words that are not perceived]] It is well known that nationalists, especially Spaniards, find it difficult to value the things that others do well. Mr Margall, we, like you, are also not satisfied with the management of the debate on audiovisual law, either by the content or the substance of how that situation was managed. We hope, like you, that it will be reversed, as you ask in this motion, in the debate on the law of cinema, but we are pessimistic. We are, first of all, because we believe that those who exercised their power in the debate of the audiovisual law will now exercise it in the debate of the law of cinema; and we are because we have seen how culture has never been a priority for this government, and it has been seen with the passage of different ministers and with the little implementation of cultural policy by the government. That's why we're going to support your motion. We also wanted to move him that we would like the first point not to be necessary, since we would like the Catalan Government to have its own action plan to help the independent sector in Catalonia, but, despite that, we will support his motion and a compromise amendment has been agreed. We hope to see you and count on your support. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u153	Thank you, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u154	Mrs Calvo, it is a repeated evidence, but I have to ask you, please, to continue in the common Spanish language, which is that of use and work in this Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u155	[[Continue in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u156	Mrs Calvo, do not debate with the Presidency, please. I ask you, if you are well-off and want to intervene, because you wish to do so in this initiative, to continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u157	[[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u158	Mrs Calvo, I must call you to order for the first time and ask you, please, strongly, that if you have anything to contribute to that initiative, of which I have no doubt, please do so in the common and working language of this Congress of Deputies, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, which obliges you and obliges me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u159	[[Continue in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u160	Mrs Calvo, I would like to say again that it is not a matter of controversy with the Presidency. You do not have the floor to argue with the Presidency and you have called it to order for the second time. Please do not force me to call you for the third time, because you know what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u161	[[Continue your speech in Catalan.-Rumores.-Various Members: Out!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u162	Mrs Calvo, you called her to order for the third time and I therefore ask you, please, to leave the rostrum. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u163	All right.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u164	Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u165	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. It is clear that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya is not happy with the outcome of the audiovisual communication law that was adopted last July, and it is normal that they are not happy, because, really, none of us are. I have already said this several times: indeed, it is a government achievement that has not made anyone in this sector so important to our country happy. But, gentlemen of the Republican Left, because they have not stopped repeating it - they have already been doing the same for several sessions - it is the government that has turned their backs on their demands on the independent audiovisual production sector in Catalonia, even if you want to distract the focus and point out a pact of the People's Party with the Socialist Party that has never existed during the processing of the famous amendment that you are now criticizing. I say this to you, Mr Margall, so that you do not continue to insist on this subject, you will inform yourself at once and address your criticisms to whom you have really deceived. Do not deceive yourself and do not contradict yourself either because, on the one hand, you say that the Socialist Party changed the amendment unilaterally during the process of the law and, on the other hand, that it was with a pact with the People's Party. And it is that you said it today and repeated it in the debate of interpellation with the Minister of Culture, recognizing that you agreed with the Socialist Party not to introduce this amendment in the audiovisual communication law on the definition of independent producer in exchange for voting in favour of the General Budgets of the State. And what happened? Since you voted in favour of the General Budgets of the State and the Government did not comply with you because it did not withdraw the amendment and also - you must admit - vetoed you amendments to the law that did not even go to the vote. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what happens when there is no parliamentary fair play and a law is used as a barter for your interests and Courts in Spain are used for your own benefit and not for the benefit of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And I want to remember something. Not only did this government - the weakest in history, by the way - receive the threats of its party, but it also pointed out the Basque Nationalist Party - there was an amendment to the whole - and United Podemos, which came out of a joint amendment with its partners, the Socialist Party, which is already starting to be too common in this House. It was the Government that deceived the producers by ensuring that there would be no change. What did the minister say here? The minister said that the audiovisual law regulates the obligations for all sectors involved in it and that it was in the Film Act where public policies and independent production would be seen. By the way, do you know what the film industry says about this law? For it is an unambitious, uncreative law that is not aligned with Mr Sánchez España's famous project, Europe's audiovisual hub, for which they say they will count on EUR 1600 million until 2025. Do not doubt all of us who are here that we will all end up asking about this aid and you, gentlemen of the Republican Left, will also do so, remember what I say to you. In short, we have a lot of work to do with this Government to ensure that the audiovisual sector in our country is taken seriously once and for all, precisely now that it is on the rise and that it has the capacity to improve the economy and generate employment in all the autonomous communities. The minister said that the independent production sector will have more aid than ever before. So, what do you worry about? If the minister has already said so. He said that the promotion of independent production is key in the decisions and public policies of the Ministry of Culture and that we are in the highest historical level of public support for independent production. Well, if the minister has said so, it's settled. Why didn't you withdraw this motion then? Why is this motion coming here today? It is essential to help independent audiovisual producers, and there they will have the People's Parliamentary Group and will be a priority in the Film Act, but I will tell you one thing that I believe has been said here today. What is not a priority in any way is the government's commission to producers for the realization of a series of chapters on Pedro Sánchez with the money of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] This is the Government's priority for audiovisual production in Spain. I'm done, President. The People's Parliamentary Group is going to abstain from this motion because it is an issue that is going to be the subject of the Cinema Act, which will, by the way, enter Congress at this session. And because approving this motion would mean accepting the amendment of the General Audiovisual Communication Law and they will agree with me that the sector is not now for legal insecurities, but to prove that it is a power in Spain and Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedreño. Mr Margall, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u167	President, we have reached an agreement and will vote in terms of the compromise that we have agreed with the Socialist Party and with Podemos, which we are going to transfer to all groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the vote by telematics procedure, I should like to state the outcome of the votes. First, a proposal by the Aragon Courts to reform the Organic Law 5/ 2007, of 20 April, to reform the Aragon Statute of Autonomy. Votes cast, 338; yes, 320, no; abstentions, 18. As a result, the proposal for reform of the Aragon Autonomy Statute obtains the House's vote in favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u170	It takes into consideration the proposal for a law of the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, for the establishment of temporary energy levies and credit institutions and credit institutions. Votes cast, 348; yes, 187; no, 153; abstentions, 8. Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u171	Request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of this bill, submitted by the Parliamentary Group Citizens. Votes cast, 347; yes, 250; no, 91; abstentions, 6. Consequently, the proposal for a law is pending before the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u172	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden, done at Brussels on 5 July 2022. Votes cast, 347; yes, 325; no, 4; abstentions, 18. As a result, direct and read-only processing of the said protocol is agreed. - PROTOCOL TO THE TREATY OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC ON THE ACCESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 5 JULY 2022. [[File number 110/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-13-CD220913.u173	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Finland, done at Brussels on 5 July 2022. Votes cast, 347; yes, 325; no, 4; abstentions, 18. As a result, direct and read-only processing of the said protocol is agreed. Thank you all very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and twenty-five minutes of the night.
