ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u2	Mrs Calviño, the law of the high office includes the members of the National Securities Market Commission as high offices and establishes the obligation to prevent their personal interests from unduly influencing the exercise of their functions when the decision they are going to make may affect the interests of their family members, including those of their spouse. Do you consider that in the case of Mr Bacigalupo there is no conflict of interest, although he is the husband of Vice-President Ribera, who makes daily decisions about companies under the control of the CNMV? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u3	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u4	Thank you very much, President. No wonder, Mr. De Olano, you have to read. What a piece of paper he's touched, isn't it, having to ask a question that's so embarrassing. [[Applauds]] That you cast doubt and try to question the professional prestige of a person who is absolutely ideal for this and many other positions, who has proved his worth and who is loyally serving our country, what shame, Mr De Olano. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u5	Quiet, please. Mr. Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u6	Thank you, President. Better to read than lie without papers, Mrs. Calviño. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] You are committed to making us commulgate with mill wheels. They want to convince us that there is no conflict of interest with Mr Bacigalupo or that he will not pressure the president of the CNMV to support the government's dark intentions in his assault on Indra, where they already control 40% without having launched an OPA. They want to convince us that Mr Griñán is an honest man, despite being convicted by the Supreme Court of Europe's biggest corruption case, or that Mr Junqueras is an exemplary citizen, when he has been convicted of corruption and for striking democracy. They want to convince us that Dolores Delgado was an independent attorney general or that the President of Post placed Sánchez there because he was an experienced manager of large companies, not because he was a friend and chief of staff of Sanchez. They want to convince us that the director of the CNI did not cease because of Esquerra's demand, when she was simply following orders from the government, but replaced her casually. They want to convince us that you are right in your predictions, when time and data deny them on a daily basis. Don't you realize, Mrs. Calviño, that citizens no longer believe you? You came to the government promising institutional regeneration, and to what you have dedicated has been to institutional decomposition in a deliberate way and with a single objective: to satisfy the personal interest of Mr Sánchez. What you call people's government could be summed up as follows: middle and low incomes are suffocated, their relatives and friends are plugged in, public servants who fulfill them cease, corrupt people are pardoned, ministers are fought and the alternative insulted. You have decided to put the country at the service of Sanchez, and not Sanchez to serve your country. But the Spaniards already know, Mrs. Calviño, and that's why you can't walk the street. As much as they become writers and actors in a bad TV series... [[Protests.-A lady MP: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u8	... its end will be written by the most powerful, the 47 million Spaniards. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u9	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u10	Thank you very much, President. Mr De Olano, your speech qualifies yourself. [[Protests]] I have here a list of highly questionable appointments from the People's Party. [[Show a document]] But I'm not going to get on your level, I'm not going to get into your play, Mr. De Olano. [[Applauds]] You use personal attacks because you can't attack management. [[Laughter]] You are trying to generate all kinds of controversy and noise because you do not want us to talk about what really matters, and that is why you oppose all the measures of this government that support the citizens?, why do you oppose the tax cuts, which benefit all the citizens?, why does the People's Party only govern for a few?, why did Mr Moreno Bonilla get into a fiscal competition yesterday with Mrs Ayuso to benefit the rich and remove the tax on the great fortunes?, why, Mr De Olano, the People's Party, which is increasingly seen as a plumber, does not succeed once in defending the general interest of the Spanish citizens? [[applause]] [[applause]] Mr De Olano, if anything characterizes this government is the appointment of people of recognized prestige, people of a high qualification... [[laughs]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u11	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u12	...people who also have a huge dedication and are committed to the well-being of our country. And I would appreciate it if you would not use this Chamber to cast doubt on people who truly do not deserve it. Mr. De Olano, it's been four years with personal attacks. Start, please, to tell the truth and start voting in favour of what benefits Spanish citizens. I would appreciate it personally because I would identify this Chamber, but above all, it is the citizens who will appreciate having an acceptable opposition with the People's Party of the rest of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY GIFT OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE EXCMA. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation: when will you understand that your triumphalist message on the growth of our economy is not in line with the daily reality of the Spaniards? [[File number 180/001024]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u13	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u14	Thank you, Madam President. You speak, Minister, of telling the truth. And, as you know, the truth is that there is nothing more to talk about on the subway than the renewal of the General Council of Judicial Power, but in a very distant second place, the Spaniards also talk about the strong economic growth of Spanish GDP, especially compared to Europe. [[laughs]] To me, when I stand on the street, everyone tells me: Give many memories to the Minister of Economy and Peter - you are the co-authors of this Spanish miracle - I thank you for what is growing Spain, I thank you for how cheap the shopping basket is. How we enjoy paying so little for the price of gas, gasoline and electricity! When do you think you will understand that your triumphalistic message about economic growth has nothing to do with the daily reality of the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u15	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u16	Thank you very much, President. The truth, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, is that I do not understand why you are making jokes and shuffles with such a serious subject as the difficulties that some Spanish citizens and families have in reaching the end of the month. [[Applauds]] This is a government that fully understands the difficulties of Spanish citizens. That is why we have been taking steps for a year to contain inflation, to support family incomes, to support sectors most affected by rising prices. And we will continue to act in this way, defending the general interest, with measures that, yes, help, relieve the citizens' pockets, that can be affected by the rise in prices when they go to purchase and it is harder for them to fill the shopping basket, when they use public transport, when they fill the car deposit, when they have to pay the return to school, when they have to face the mortgage payment. And that is why we have not stopped acting to support you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, and you have always voted against all these measures. Don't come making jokes and start acting responsibly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u17	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u18	Madam Minister, in addition to sinking the Spaniards, you come here with a bad temper and make jokes. You will have to turn your back on this government. Let's try to lighten up a little, but for the sake of the Spaniards. I'm going to change the subject slightly, though not much. Do you like football? You follow the league? Do you know who won the league last year? Well, I'll tell you. Last year the league won Real Madrid. Do you know who went down to Monday? Three teams are down every year, and among them there was a very dear team that went down to Second, which is the Levante. But something very curious happened in last year's league. [[Show a chart]] Although Real Madrid in the last few days was the one that added more points, because it added 20 points in the last nine days, the Levante, with only 16 points added, grew by 84%, the team that grew the most throughout the League. Do you know what that means? Absolutely nothing. [[Show another chart]] Regrettably, the Levant went down to Second, was penultimate, because it grew much but was not worth anything. [[Rumors]] Do you know why? Because it was from a very small base. When you start from a very small base, no matter how much you grow, absolutely nothing happens. You are here every day saying that Spain grows more than anyone. But do you know what reality is? That this is the league in which you play, in which you are coach, the European economic league, the league of economic growth measured by GDP, Eurostat data. And you know what's going on? [[Show another chart]] That as much as you say that Spain is the fastest growing, between 2019 and 2021 - the latest annual data we have - Spain is at the tail of the European Union. In the same way that they had to change the coach in the Levante when it was last, we should probably change the coach in the European economic league, and in that case in the Spanish one, because you, what is the coach, Your Honor, have lowered us to the second division. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u19	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u20	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, with all due respect, I believe that we are not here to talk about the football league, but about the situation of the Spanish citizens Frankly, this government for more than four years has been governing for the Spanish citizens, and, from a more recent point of view, simply since the beginning of the year, what we have is a labor reform - you voted against - which has allowed us to have more than twenty million people affiliated with Social Security; records of minimums in the unemployment rate, which is around 12%; less than three million unemployed; records of minimums in youth unemployment; we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage; we have raised non-contributory pensions; we have raised the vital minimum income to support the most vulnerable families; we have committed ourselves to a re-evaluation of pensions under the CPI; we are supporting the sectors most affected by the rise in prices. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] [[Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon shows a graph]] You do not need to teach these graphics; I am talking about the reality of Spanish citizens, we are taking steps every day to support the families of our country, and, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, that is what the Government is for, that is what the Ministry of Economy is for. And, actually, I am very proud of the work we have done for four years, but above all, of what we have done to respond to the pandemic and what we are now doing to respond to a situation as difficult as that of the Putin war - and today you will recognize me as the day to talk about Putin -. I am proud of what has been done and we are going to continue in the same direction, defending the interests of the citizens, in spite of them and, unfortunately, without their support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: IS THE GOVERNMENT PLANT SOME ECONOMIC MEASURES TO HELP THE FAMILY WITH THE PAYMENT OF THE HYPOTHECS BEFORE THIS SUBJECT OF TYPES THAT COMES TO COMPLETE WITH INFLATION? [[File number 180/001022]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u21	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u22	Mrs. Calviño, I'm going to explain a real case to you. A couple, Nacho and Diana, signed a mortgage a few years ago for their usual home; they paid about 600 euros a month until nothing, and now they have seen how suddenly, with the rise in interest rates, they have risen to 730 euros. He asked: What steps will your Government take to help families in situations like this?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u23	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u24	Thank you very much, President. I have this question and then an inquiry, that is, I understand that today the Citizens Group wants to go on TV, because, if not, I do not understand that I have to answer the same question twice. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u26	We're talking about a subject that I understand you're worried about not being dealt with. Mrs. Arrimadas, the truth is that it's not a new issue. Already in 2019 we changed the Mortgage Law so that both the people you mentioned and all those who have a variable-rate mortgage can change it at a fixed rate free of charge if they have a mortgage of more than three years and that we have a series of mechanisms agreed with the financial sector to be able to restructure that debt, to be able to have withdrawals, even to be able to have the dation in payment of the housing for those citizens who have a most vulnerable situation, and in any case we will continue to act so that they have the best possible incomes, because the incomes of the families are, in the end, those that will give them the strength to be able to face any challenge we have ahead, to be able to fill the shopping basket, to fill the car deposit, to take the transport of free surroundings and to go to work; in the end, we will continue to support the interest of all citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u27	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u28	I'm going to talk a lot about mortgages, because that's what takes the dream away from millions of Spaniards, and it seems a lie that you're vice president of the Government of Spain. Look, I'm talking to you about families who don't get a social bonus, who get more than the interprofessional minimum wage, and who don't get absolutely no help from the government. I have given you a concrete example, but I can tell you about many others. There are already increases of about 170 or 180 euros per month. Do you know what that is? It's a lot more than the rise in the bill for light, for example, and it's going to get worse. There are four million Spaniards with variable-type mortgages, Mrs Calviño, some, by the way, with increases of about 1300, 1400 euros a year, which is what those expensive iPhones are worth, which you have agreed to give us to the Members, and from Citizens we will say that not why it is a real shame. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u30	We already know that you are not responsible for monetary policy, but you are responsible for taking or not taking steps to solve this problem, to help families cushion this sudden and huge rise in mortgages. We make them a concrete and achievable proposal, to approve a temporary and extraordinary tax deduction to compensate for at least part of this huge rise that is suffering from housing and mortgages of habitual housing. Ladies and gentlemen, do not tell us that there is no money, please, that today you have 22 billion euros more to raise for inflation, and you are also the most expensive government in history, as you keep increasing the charges. And neither say they can do anything else, because, when they want, they strive, how they are striving, moving heaven and earth, to see if the president does that kind of series or telenovela, in which we find the same thing as a leading galan. Stop paying the only mortgage that concerns you, which is the one you have with your separatist partners, and really take urgent steps already to alleviate the serious increase that families' mortgages are experiencing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u31	First Vice-President of the Government
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u32	Thank you. I was right, all you wanted to do today was go on TV. Firstly, Mrs Arrimadas, we have taken steps to support families. The most important thing is that they have a decent salary, that they have a safe job, that they have the support that they are getting to the citizens as a whole. I do not share your view that there are Spanish citizens who do not benefit from the measures of the Government, because the reduction of taxes, free transport, the bonus of petrol, the increase of pensions reaches 100 per cent of the Spanish population. Secondly, we are working, we are meeting these days with the financial sector to see how we can continue to deepen and advance in support of those families that may have a difficulty in paying the mortgage, and they also have all the battery of measures that we have put in place in recent years to be able to change them to a fixed rate, which has done a good number of people who had variable rate mortgages. We will listen to all the proposals, we will attend to and analyze all the ideas very carefully because we are determined to continue to support the citizens of this country and to tackle in the best possible way the challenges that may come to us from outside Spain. Unfortunately, they have been intense in these years, but we have shown our commitment to defending the general interest. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. VEHI CANTENYS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT MEASURES ARE TO BE DEVELOPED THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION TO GUARANTEE THE FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT TO FOOD TO THE SITUATION OF GROWTH INFLATION? [[File number 180/001018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u33	Question by Mrs Mireia Vehí Cantenys, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u34	Thank you, President. Minister, the latest data from the CPI indicate that inflation is at more than 10 points, that is, things are 10% more expensive, and it has already gone to food and commodities. What measures does your ministry have to ensure the right to food?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u36	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, indeed, the Western economies as a whole are suffering from high inflation, mainly caused at first, by the increase in the costs of energy and raw materials at international level, an increase which has now been transferred to processed food, to industrial products and which is affecting the basket of the purchase of families. For almost a year now, therefore, we have been taking measures to try to contain the rise in energy, to try to contain the rise in prices, to support the general public, with special attention to the most vulnerable groups, and also to support those productive sectors, including those of agriculture and livestock, which are affected by the rise in energy costs, or fertilizers in the case of agriculture. This is the action of a responsible government, a government committed to people, and in this line we will continue to act to support all families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u37	Mrs. Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u38	Thank you, President. Minister, listening to you today and also listening to your speech in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs at the beginning of September, you spoke very much about economic growth and this week you also announced the reduction of VAT to some commodities, but these two instruments have in common that they are blind to inequality. When you refer to GDP you talk about wealth, but not about how that wealth is distributed. People have euros to pay for meat, vegetables and fish. Meanwhile, this week it has been made public that IBEX companies have earned more than 7% of profits compared to 2021. With regard to the fall in VAT on products, such as wood, at a time of crisis, it is an equal fall in wealth and the poor, and it is also a fall in the income of the State at a time when strong public services are needed, and it also does not assure us that prices are controlled, because they continue to be put on by the large distributors, nor that producers are paid more. Not taking into account inequality in this area is that many families do not have access to the right to food and commodities, for example. It is urgent to control the prices of food and essential products, minister, say what the bosses of supermarkets say, because the free market can never go beyond the fundamental right to food, and you, and your ministry in particular, will have to choose those who protect.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u39	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u40	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Vehi, I am surprised that you speak in those terms, bearing in mind that one of the main objectives we have had has been precisely a fair sharing of the impact of the war. It is true that tax cuts benefit all citizens, and yesterday we lowered gas and other fuels for heating and being able to warm up in winter. By the way, that wood and pellets are very important in rural areas and I think that just the drop benefits the most vulnerable and rural areas in our country, and I suppose you would be interested in supporting these citizens, just as free transport benefits all citizens, just as the bonus in petrol and diesel fuels helps those who have a car and have to use it to go to work, just like all those measures relating to the increase in pensions, the increase in minimum living income, the increase in non-contributory pensions, the interprofessional minimum wage, the strengthening of scholarships, the aid of 200 euros to the middle classes, what they do is precisely to support the whole of Spanish citizens so that they can cope with this extraordinary situation. But as soon as possible, and I agree with you, we have to try to curb the rise in prices. Fortunately, we have seen in August that there is already a moderation of this rise, and, with all the uncertainty and with all the caution derived from the international situation, we hope to continue on this downward path so that we can have as soon as possible a situation that is more relieved, more beneficial, and a more sustainable and fairer growth also in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND PERIOD OF THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DO YOU CONSIDER THAT YOUR LABORAL REFORM HAS SUPERTAINED THE PERIOD OF TEST? [[File number 180/001025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u41	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u42	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, welcome after finishing your tour of the Spanish supermarkets offering your low-cost basket as the 21st century Red Riding Hood, a tour in which you have reaped a tremendous failure. And while you were walking through Spanish lands negotiating with the guinea pigs, you've abandoned your competition, the labour market. You, who boasted of the 'forbidden dismissal', instead of encouraging the recruitment of quality jobs, have forced companies to take as an alternative the dismissal for not exceeding the probationary period, in order to maintain short-term employment, which in the last year has grown by more than 900 %. Therefore, I ask you: Do you consider that your labour reform has exceeded the probationary period? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u43	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u44	Your Honor, what I consider to be indifferent. I refer you to what you consider, nothing more and nothing less, than the ILO or the OECD on labour reform. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u45	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u46	Thank you. Your Honor, we're going to kill your story with the data. The activity rate in Spain is 58%, compared to 74% in the European Union; unemployment in Spain 12.6%, compared to 6.6% on average in the European Union, and the rate of poverty resulting from combining unemployment and inflation 22.6%, compared to 16.4% in the European Union. Very bad, isn't it? Temporary contracts, which have been dubbed fixed discontinuity, have made the labour market precarious, condemning workers to a more harmful contract and employers to assume a higher labour cost, which precisely encourages them to fire or close their businesses. In the official data you do not collect half a million people without work, those who expel from their statistics by considering these fixed contracts discontinuous as indefinite. According to Eurostat, employment data for the second quarter referring to employment compared to the previous quarter are fatal because they say that Spain is the leading country in the destruction of employment in the European Union. Therefore, your statistical cuisine and your makeup all they hide is the precariousness that remains in the labour market, because, minister, even if the monkey gets dressed in silk, the monkey stays, and soon the Spaniards will tell you: Farewell, your contract and your mandate have ended by not exceeding the probationary period. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u47	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u48	Your Honor, your style is still very debugged. These days I was wondering what would have happened if the labour reform agreed with the social partners was not in place with this new crisis over the Putin war. Shall I tell him? Unemployment figures when governing the People's Party reached 27%. But, Your Honor, labor reform, despite you, is working. I'm going to give you three data. The first is that in just six months the rate of temporality in our country has been reduced by four points; at present, Your Honor, we have the lowest rate of temporality in our country's history. [[Applauds]] Secondly - I'm sure you don't know it - today we have - listen well - 13 and a half million workers with stable and indefinite contracts. We had never seen it in thirty-seven years of our country's history. This is talking about decent lives and decent jobs, Your Honor, 13 and a half million wage earners. [[Applauds]] And the third thing I give you, Your Honor, is that 98.8% of the contracts in our country have exceeded the probationary period. Share the data, and do not be influenced by data that have nothing to do with reality. And while the Government of Spain does this, do you know what you do? One, to oppose all positive measures, and two, to resort to labour reform, as they have done with dismissal for medical reasons, before the Constitutional Court. And do you know why you have that pollution against labor reform? Because it goes against your hidden program against the workers of our country. I remind you again of your programme for workers in this country: to reduce compensation for dismissal, to cut unemployment benefit, to unconstitutionally reduce the right to strike and collective bargaining, to lower the interprofessional minimum wage, to young people offer them contracts of garbage and nothing more and nothing less than privatizing pensions. And now it turns out that even it is wrong for you to seek an agreement so that people, families can access a healthy meal; up to this, ladies and gentlemen, it is wrong for you. Simply put, the question is why they are so worried about labor reform, which is the first to recover rights, and they don't ask me what we're going to do... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u49	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WILL YOUR ENERGY POLICY BE ADAPTED TO THE DECISIONS ADOPTED IN THE EUROPEAN UNION? [[File number 180/001028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u50	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u51	Thank you, President. Mrs Ribera, the European Union has rejected the widespread use of the Iberian exception because the retail market price you display on the charts is at all what the Spaniards see on the invoice at the end of the month, to which must be added the subsidy to the gas from your Iberian exception. They said that gas cap was going to limit prices, but today this surcharge is many times more than the price of energy itself. Madam Vice-President, you said that you were going to avoid exporting cheap energy to France, Portugal and Morocco and right now we are burning more gas than ever to generate electricity with which Spanish consumers subsidise consumers in those countries. We have exponentially increased external dependence on the need to buy more gas with which to generate electricity: more than 20,000 gigawatts an hour since this measure was approved -14,000 of them come from Russia - and we are also going to increase CO2 emissions. Bravo, Mrs Ribera! He announced that the price of energy would be reduced by 40% and we are already at 13, but with the gradual incorporation of long-term contracts to pay that surcharge there are more than twenty million consumers who join the nine million that have the regulated contract. What's the total discount going to be, Mrs Ribera? Can you tell us today, please? Do you know that a consumer who has a photovoltaic self-consumption facility also pays the algae subsidy in this country for the energy it consumes? Isn't that the sun tax, Mrs Ribera? Spain has the most expensive regulated rate in Europe. Only between August 2021 and August 2022 has the price of electricity increased by 60%, Mrs Ribera. Since its model is so dependent on gas, as the price of gas grows, the more electric energy does, it is evident. Will your energy policy finally adapt to the decisions of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u52	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u53	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. This government not only works to comply with and respect the decisions of the European Union, but also helps to identify early and insist on the need for a response from Europe as well. That Iberian mechanism, which has allowed us a reduction in relation to what could have happened in its absence of about 20% of our invoices, has been complemented by the package we have taken in advance in this country. And to that is added the opening of a very important debate. Today, which Putin has declared to take a step forward in that long and cruel war that makes it very difficult for us to respond to this challenge, and that is why we need a united response at a European level that is flexible and supportive, it is important to deny some of the things you say. What would happen to consumers in Portugal in a dry year like this, even if you deny climate change, if there was no capacity to produce electricity and export from Spain to Portugal? That 25% of electricity consumption in Portugal would not exist and would have to destroy demand. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya Makes negative gestures]] What happens if we listen to that desire to stretch the life of nuclear power plants beyond their design time, as is happening in France? That we would have to ask them to give us a gift and to transfer all the electricity produced in all the neighbouring countries, such as France, which, in order to survive this winter, would depend on the maximum export of electricity from all the neighbouring countries to France. Our consumers are therefore paying between 20 and 30 % less than they would pay in the absence of the measures taken by this government and against the People's Party's criteria, but we also respond seriously and responsibly to the European Union's call for solidarity with our neighbours in gas, electricity and in the economy and social support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u54	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u55	Mrs Ribera, I believe more in the electric bills that the Spaniards see than in their word. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] Why don't you extend the VAT rebate all winter? Why don't you? Why doesn't that discount apply to butane candy, to the most vulnerable consumers? And one question, since you mention nuclear energy, do you agree with your colleagues in the Far East Parliament, who have asked you to extend the useful life of Almaraz I and II? You have a chance to answer. Thank you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u56	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u57	I have no doubt that my fellow extremists will close their ranks one hundred percent with a program that is a national program and that makes a serious and strong bet for the transformation of the energy system. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya makes negative gestures.- Rumors.-Applause.]] But since he is so concerned about European law, European laws, the Constitution and even supposedly the laws of nature... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UNDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WHAT DOES THE LORD MINISTER UNDERSTAND FOR 'SHORT ASSISTANCE' IN THE PENSION COMPETITION? [[File number 180/001023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u59	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u60	Good morning. Minister, we have been reading news about the second phase of pension reform for weeks. One of the most alarming news has been the claim that you had to extend the period of years for the calculation of pensions thirty-five years. Last week you denied it and claimed that there was only going to be a few minor adjustments that you didn't make. At such a delicate moment as the present one, clarity is necessary, so that no more uncertainty is generated than that already has the citizenry. That is why I ask you a very clear question and I also ask you for clarity in the answer: how many years of increase are those small adjustments that you talk about in the calculation of pension calculation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u61	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u62	Thank you, President. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, I want to be absolutely clear. This reform of the accounting system is in no way intended to have an adjustment or reduction of pensions. I have been saying this for two years and I ask you, please, not to attend to interested headlines who come, above all, from right-wing newspapers... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u63	Silence, please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u64	... that they seek to create concern, not to certain studies that this time are likely to come from financial institutions or are financed by financial institutions. It's all spurious, it's all spurious. What we are doing is strictly, and I will read it to you, comply with two recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Recommendation 5, which states: assess how the calculation period for the calculation of the pension affects the type of professional careers of workers in our country. And 11, which says: arbitrate transitional measures at each time to safeguard the contributory effort and pension as retirees, respecting the principle of sufficiency. By the way, the Toledo Pact tells us: discuss it with the social partners. That is strictly what we are doing now and what needs to be done is to let work on that social dialogue that has borne such good fruit at all times. What's this about? It is precisely these professional careers that, with the financial crisis, with the pandemic and with the war, do not result in a lower pension at the end of their professional period. What we need to do is to strengthen the insurance element in the face of the adversity that the system has, and that requires working on several levers, such as the loopholes, which also have a very important gender element, because precisely this irregularity affects women more. Therefore, improving the system of loopholes, allowing to exclude the worst years and play with the period of computation are the three elements. Many combinations can be made to make the system fairer, much fairer, without cutting or adjusting pensions. That is the objective which we are agreeing with the social partners and which is going to leave us, I can assure you, a much more equitable and much stronger system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u65	Mr. Ruiz de Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u66	Minister, in order to put an end to pregnancy and poisoning, it would also be useful to have information and a direct discussion in the working committees within Parliament, so that we do not have news through the media, as is being repeated all the time. What I want to say to you is that it is necessary to arrive at an equitable system and, in fact, at the meetings of the pact we were discussing that we would have to study how it had affected precisely the increase in the years of calculation from fifteen to twenty-five years, and neither have they been carried out. One cannot increase one more year in the calculation, because each year we increase represents a point of loss of purchasing power in pensions. We are not saying this, but the report of the Banco de España; not the pensioners say this, but their own reports. And we must not forget that already in 2011 it increased from ten years to twenty-five and amounted to five points of loss. It is important to take this into account and not to take steps in that direction, that is, not to increase, because it would, above all, be a burdensome measure in those uneven races that you are talking about. I have to admit that we are hopeful that in the coming months the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE INDULTAR GOVERNMENT THINK THE CHAIRS AND THE CHAIRS AFTER YOU KNOW THE SENTENCE OF CASE ERE? [[File number 180/001029]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u68	Questions to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u69	With the venom. Minister, I don't know what you were told this week on the street or on the subway, but the fact is that the Supreme Court's final ruling in the ERE case has been historic: the two former presidents of the Socialist Party have been convicted. It has been a misappropriation of public flows and systemic corruption. 700 million euros of all Spaniards have been used to create a client network for the benefit of a political party and their top leaders have been strongly condemned by the Supreme Court. [[a lady MP: False!]] However, the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet asked the Spanish for forgiveness. But justice has spoken and, if the Socialist Party government pardons the former PSOE presidents, it will be damaging confidence in justice and, ladies and gentlemen, it will be undermining the government's own confidence and failing its word not to pardon for corruption. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen - and let us also talk about programmes, Mrs Díaz - that the Socialist Party promised not to pardon for corruption, either partially or totally. Moreover, the Socialist Party cannot pardon the Socialist Party, Your Honor, that was in the Socialist Party's ethical code. So, is the government thinking about making this pardon? Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u70	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u71	Thank you, President. Mr Rojas, I told your colleague in the Senate yesterday and I repeat it today in this House: the government gives the same treatment to all pardons. Unlike his party, this Government complies with the law and the Constitution. Does it sound like you're in compliance with the Constitution? [[Rumors]] President Lesmes was very clear at the opening of the judicial year and addressed you. [[Protests.-Mr. Manglano Albacar points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u72	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u73	So I pick up his glove and return the question. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No, no.- Mr Alonso Pérez speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u74	Mr. Alonso, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u75	Does the People's Party intend to pardon the General Council of the Judiciary after it is known that President Lesmes announces his resignation? I say this because your position on the justice system and the institutions of this country is absolutely scandalous, Mr Rojas. [[applause.-Rumores.-Mr. Jerez Juan utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u76	Mr. Jerez Juan, I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u77	Of course we comply with the Constitution, minister, and I remind you that the Constitution, article 9, speaks of the principle of legality; I remind you that there is only one sentence, and I remind you that yesterday in the Senate you denied this sentence, Your Honor. [[Several Members: Yes!]] If you come here to Congress to deny the firmness of a sentence and its legal effect, you must think of leaving office, Your Honor, because you are minister of Spain. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] Your Honor, be careful, because for bad politics the black can be white, but for justice not and justice has spoken. And, be careful, because if the government does not see corruption in the EREs, how are we going to be calm with the distribution of European funds, the one that Moncloa does, which announces projects that have not yet been tendered, Your Honor? This reminds me of the EREs, and you? [[Rumors]] Your Honor, what is the meaning of your justice? You want to use the right of grace for the benefit of your political party and that is unacceptable. You try to cover up the infamous insults with insults to the opposition and that is an unacceptable flight forward. You say - say - defend people, but what you do is laugh at people. Ladies and gentlemen, you are defending yourselves and that is equally unacceptable. No more political pardons, Your Honor, please comply with the legal order. Spain is looking at them; stand up to this great country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u78	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u79	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you ask me to rule in advance on a case in which we have not even opened the file. It is clear that your strategy is to get populist juice, political populist juice, out of the ERE sentence with the sole intention of wearing down the government, because you have no other project. Do you believe that this minister is going to rule in advance without having sought the mandatory reports of the sentencing court and the report of the Prosecutor's Office? [[Rumors]] A sentence that, by the way, yes, it is, and I'm sorry, has two dissenting votes. [[Mr Rojas García speaks words that are not perceived]] This Government is not the Government of Kitchen and this Government is not the Government of 'the Prosecutor's Office tunes it up to you'. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u80	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u81	This government is not the government of 'let's control the Supreme Court through the back door'. So, when you get so great and when you get so demanding, take a mirror, stand in front and ask him, "Spice, magic mirror, what is the party in Spain that has been condemned for corruption?" Let's see what he tells you; apply the story. [[Protests.-Laughter.]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GREAT COMPLIANCE BY THE SPANISH STATE OF THE JUDGMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS CONSIDERED? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u82	Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u83	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. As is known, last July the European Commission's report on the rule of law situation in relation to each Member State was published. It contains observations on certain aspects of justice systems and, as far as Spain is concerned, it relates, inter alia, to the many times claimed by the Basque Nationalist Party to reform the Official Secrets Act, in the Pegasus case, to continue the fight against corruption and to protect its complainants and to the need for the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and other constitutional bodies, such as the Constitutional Court, for their relevant work in defending the fundamental rights of citizens. The report also sets out Spain's compliance with the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights, as it is said to be an important indicator of the functioning of the rule of law in each country. That is why, Minister, you asked whether you consider the degree of compliance by Spain with the judgments of the Court of Strasbourg satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u84	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Legarda, I really appreciate these kinds of questions and I'm telling you. It can always be improved, that is evidence, because it is not a matter in which we must spare efforts from any of the institutions involved, but it pointed out that Spain is one of the Member States of the European Convention on Human Rights with the lowest number of convictions, and it is also one of the States that takes less time to execute those sentences. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u86	Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u87	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I believe that you have a very satisfactory view of the situation of the rule of law in Spain regarding the indicator of the degree of compliance with the judgments of the Court of Human Rights, since, as of 1 July last, Spain had twenty-two main judgments pending enforcement. Its percentage of main judgments delivered over the last 10 years and pending enforcement is 61 %. Spain is the third country in the queue as a percentage of compliance; of the 27 countries, only Cyprus and Hungary outperform it. Of the sentences executed, your average period of execution is three years and one month, Minister, which is also not a portent of diligence. By the way, the oldest outstanding sentence of execution is more than ten years ago, in compensation of 50,000 euros with its interests to an African woman, a sex worker, for the treatment given by the police, the administration and the courts. That is why I ask you, Minister: what steps will the Government of Spain take to remedy this, in our opinion, so uneducating situation with regard to the rule of law in Spain that, in addition, constitutes a serious breach of the obligations in the mandatory force of the sentence...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Execution of convictions of the European Court of Human Rights are often very complex procedures, with individual remedies for accredited violations and also with measures to prevent such violations. What is relevant to your question, from my point of view, is the procedure for monitoring the enforcement of those judgments. The fact that an enforcement oversight procedure is not closed does not imply that the judgment is not being complied with. Supervision is carried out by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and therefore does not depend on the State in question; it is also a contradictory procedure in which NGOs, civil society, etc. are dealt with and heard. That is, there are many actors involved during that execution process. Depending on the case in question, the procedure may require the action of various administrations, including various powers of the State. On other occasions I have spoken here and I have already said that I can only speak on behalf of the Executive. The average duration of the procedures to which you have also referred here is slightly more than three years in the implementation procedures, below the average of the other States of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is five years. As matters common to the execution of convictions, I can tell you that, as a general rule, contrary to what you have stated, the awards of sentences are paid within three months, which is, moreover, that granted by the court to carry out the execution. Action plans or action reports have also been submitted in time, detailing the measures taken. Therefore, the execution of a sentence is a polyhedral and complex process, with many aspects that do not depend solely on the Executive, although I can tell you that the Executive considers that, in this case, the Spanish State complies with its obligations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR MARIO GARCÉS SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: IS THE GOVERNMENT PLANT DOWN THE VAT OF FOODS TO HELP THE FAMILY? [[File number 180/001031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u90	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, your fiscal policy is a natural combination of contradictions and lies. You started by saying, ERE that ERE, that they were never going to raise taxes and there are already forty-two increases in taxes and social contributions. He then went on to say, ERE que ERE, that in no way could the VAT be lowered from light because there were European restrictions, which was completely false. You continued to say, ERE que ERE, that all public expenditure that exists right now in Spain is necessary and that obviously there is no rationalisation exercise. [[laughs]] You have public money like Peter for your home, like the documentary that is being recorded right now. This is the reality. You are demanding an income pact for the Spanish citizens and you are demanding an overpowering of the Spanish when you do not do it with yourself, because you have not taken a single measure to contain and reduce this unproductive and irrational superstructure that you have organized. You are incapable right now of giving lessons to anyone because you don't give lessons to yourselves. They talk about powerful and not powerful, but do you know what I'm telling you? That you, in short, are dismantling the welfare state to generate the welfare of your own state, the individual state of each of your ministers. Madam Minister, we now offer you the possibility of lowering VAT on the basket of the purchase of all Spaniards, of low incomes and middle incomes, not of the powerful. Are you going to lower the VAT on the shopping basket? Thank you so much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u92	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. The problem, Mr. Garcés, is that we know you, the People's Party. Do you know what you did, who talk about coherence or contradictions in this government's fiscal policy? Listen carefully. Electricity, gas, gas, cars, water, beer, train tickets, plane tickets, taxis, clothes, tirites, masks, furniture, funeral services, hairdressing, homes and appliances are basic products, right? Do you know who raised VAT on all these commodities, Mr. Garcés? The People's Party. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You preach what you do not practice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u94	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u95	I don't know if you defend the powerful or the indecent - Jordi Sevilla, Pepe Blanco, José Montilla, Elena Salgado... -, all those who have held positions on boards of directors of energy entities. That speech you have from the powerful and the indecent should quickly avoid it for all. By the way, Pedro Sánchez - The general in his labyrinth, since you read both García Márquez lately - was advisor to Caja Madrid. There are two types of corruption: material corruption, ERE that ERE, which you know well, and ideological corruption. You are a barn of contradictions: the president of the government, I say, the general in his labyrinth; the barren technocracy of the first vice president and the magical thought of 'Moto Mami', the second vice president. [[Laughter]] You guys don't make a balance... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u97	Thank you, Madam President. It's called juggling, Mr. Garcés, avoiding or hiding what's obvious. Yesterday you again starred in the expression of what is the fiscal model of the People's Party. Say it without any kind of indecentness. You defend the interests of the electrics, you defend the interests of the oil companies, you defend the interests of the banks and you defend the interests of the big estates. [[Mr Garcés Sanagustín points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] They vote against some and eliminate those who are aimed at the great fortunes. This party and this Government are defending the interests of the working middle class with the reduction of VAT on those products that have suffered the main rise in the Ukraine war, such as electricity and gas, and also helping the families of our country. By the way, Mr. Garcés, since you have some questions: do you want to talk about transparency in public life? Can you commit here to publish the salaries that your party leaders may be receiving from the People's Party? What are you afraid of? [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: What does he say?]] [[Applauds]] Do it right now. What you're doing is trying to cut it out. You have just spoken to President Sánchez about issues that you have made and that you have had no corruption of any kind, which I know. Mr. Garcés, today, here, now, with whom we are protagonists of public life and political life, you publish the remunerations that, you charged your party, you allegedly receive certain leaders of your party and perhaps we can favor... [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGART PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ACTIVITIES IS THE GOVERNMENT COMMITTING TO THE ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION PROCEEDING FROM THE DEAFRICA NORTHERN? [[File number 180/001030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u99	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u100	Thank you, President. Minister, I have been waiting a year for you to appear for the increase in the arrival of pateras in Balears. While you're hiding, you've increased 15% across the archipelago, 15% in Ibiza and 116% in Cabrera. In a year we have had to read: 'The Algerian migration route disembarks 223 people in one day', 'The flight of twenty passengers from an airplane paralyzes Son Sant Joan' u 'Oleada de pateras, 371 Algerians in three days.' When it was most lacking in a foreign policy of collaboration to control these flows, Pedro Sánchez's policy has meant the breakdown of relations with Algeria. We have already warned that Balears would be the most harmed community and so it has been. Eighty-nine per cent of immigrants who arrive at our shores irregularly leave Algeria and are already 1,400 people in what goes on in the year, in the absence of the months of greatest influx. Unsustainable. In addition, only 8% of those arriving in the Balearic Islands since 2018 are repatriated. What actions is your Government taking in the face of this new migration route? [[Applauds.-Mr.Hispan Churches of Ussel: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u101	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. I see that you are already in the electoral campaign and what you have just done to us is your rally, but a rally where the data you have given do not correspond to reality. [[Protests]] Do you want us to talk about immigration and irregular entry in the year 2022 in Spain? Because you too will like to talk about Spain. We're all Spain. See, in Spain today irregular entries have been reduced by 16% compared to 2021. As far as the peninsula is concerned - we are going to remove the Canary Islands -, in the peninsula and the Balearic Islands they have been reduced by 27%. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u103	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u104	As far as the Canary Islands is concerned, they have also fallen by more than 2% compared to 2021. With regard to Algerian citizens' admissions, from 2021 to 2022 they have been reduced by more than 35%. Do you know how to get this? With immigration policy, working with countries of origin and transit, fighting against the mafias who trade with human beings. Also, having more staff. We have increased security forces and bodies in the Balearic Islands by 7%. Everything that was lost to you has already been recovered in the summer with more people and support thanks to Instruction 10 of 2022 of the Secretariat of State for Security. That is, more cooperation with developing countries, more cooperation in Europe and more personal and material means. And that's the result we have. Go on with the rally, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u105	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u106	Minister, what I am in is the defence of the citizens of the Balearic Islands, whom you have again ignored today. Data against reports. Data against his propaganda. I know this is a complex issue and there are no populisms, but neither is this that you have just done, because you are responsible for this data. The first thing you, the delegate - Mrs Calvo - and Armengol - should do is to recognize that there is this new migratory route and also to make a serious foreign policy, because you have abandoned everyone. You have abandoned the bodies and security forces, without human means or material means or a dignified insularity that allows them to work. You have abandoned the citizens of Balearics. According to the Civil Guard, they have to stop doing citizen security issues because they are overwhelmed. And you have abandoned the immigrants themselves. To receive the Aquarius from above to allow them to sleep overcrowded in garages. How hypocrisy! Minister, what I am here to do today is to ask you what Mrs Armengol is never going to ask you to do: to defend Baleares as well. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prohens. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. As I see it, it continues with the rally and the populism you say it runs away from. I have told you that there are more personal means and more material means for the state security forces and bodies. Can you deny it to me? Give me that data you have; you haven't given it to me. By 10% we have almost increased the security forces and bodies. The crime rate has dropped in the Balearic Islands. Irregular immigration in Spain is being reduced thanks to a migration policy in which we have been working for four years, working with countries of origin, of destination, working and fighting against irregular mafias, making policy within the European Union. For what? To accomplish what we call the outer dimension. What is the outer dimension, which must you sound? Ensure development and cooperation with countries of origin so that people in Africa do not have to emigrate for reasons of necessity putting their lives at risk. That's what we do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u109	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO SALVA VERD, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY DOES HE GIVE A COVERED INDUSTRY TO STATE ASSISTANCES THROUGH HIS TRAVEL TO VACCES? [[File number 180/001026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u110	Question by Mr Antonio Salvá Verde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u111	I take it the question is reproduced. [[Several Members: Not heard]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u112	Can you repeat, please, that the microphone was off? [[A Member of Parliament: You've been duped!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u113	I take it the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u114	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Salvá. You know, from a personal point of view, the appreciation I feel for your person as a victim of terrorism, but you, like me, are here today as politicians. The answer to the question you have asked me is nothing other than to say that the transfers of prisoners from the terrorist organization ETA, like any other prisoner, strictly comply with the criteria of legality: section 12.1 of the General Prison Act. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u116	Mr. Salva.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u117	Thank you so much. Minister, your government has transferred powers in prison matters to the Basque Country, which means that the autonomous government - that is, the PNV - decides on third grades and prison permits, and you have previously decided on the second. There's the trap. At the same time, you're moving the criminal etarras to the Basque prisons. I mean, he's giving them a covert pardon. ETA killed more than 800 people. Of these murders, 378 have not yet been solved, one of them is my son's. Of course, none of the ages to which you grant covert pardon has revealed key details for resolving those crimes. Moreover, when one of these murderers is released his Bildu partners cheer them and organize parties in his honor. Meanwhile, the victims of ETA rot in oblivion. Their servile attitude and PSOE's pacts with ETA are an insult to victims and good people. You might as well spit in our faces explicitly. Here's my face, listen to me. The affront would not be greater. [[Applauds]] We all knew that the PSOE is the most corrupt party in the history of Spain and Europe, but what is clear now is that this corruption is not limited to economic issues. It is precisely moral corruption, the blood vows on which his Government is based, the most vile form of corruption. You say that ETA does not exist. In order not to exist, tributes to terrorists are becoming more frequent. In fact, the victims do still exist. As I have already told you, 378 murders, one of them my son's, whose executioners have not yet been identified. ETA may not kill today, but tributes and victims do exist. We call on the Government to defend us, protect us and investigate the crimes to be solved; we demand memory, dignity and justice. Finally, why do you grant these hidden pardons to ETA? And, to finish, I have to tell you that the ETA bullet kills three times: the first time, the person; the second time, when politicians like you betray us, and the third time, in oblivion, which is where you intend to take the victims. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u118	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Salvá. I don't know what to say, I don't know if to let time pass in silence. [[Rumors]] You have also spit on another victim of terrorism today, but he is not a victim of terrorism today because he is exercising depoliticism, the Minister of the Interior. [[Applauds]] In that regard, I would like to point out that we apply the law; transfers are the application of the law, it is a right to serve the sentence in the immediate vicinity of the home in order to avoid social exclusion. The policy of dispersion - we have said it many times - was an anti-terrorist policy; defeated ETA, disappears. With regard to grade progression, grades, permits, sections 72 and 100 of the General Prison Act apply. An individualized, scientific study is carried out involving prison officials. It is the treatment boards that propose and the authority that resolves, and with judicial control. And today you have disrespected prison officials, who were a target of the terrorist organization ETA. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u121	You have disrespected the judges, who were the target of the terrorist organization ETA. And why should I tell him? Because it is the prison officials, because it is the judges who control the execution of custodial sentences. And you have failed to respect a government that cannot be defended today. If one of the parties is here, such as the Basque Nationalist Party, to which I do not have to defend, of course, because it is an absolutely democratic, legitimate government and - as it cannot be otherwise - that enforces the law in the parameters and in the terms that correspond. I tell you that everything is not worth it, Mr Salvá, not everything is worth it, let alone question the work of prison officials and judges who control the sentences. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO DO TO THE CHILDREN IN CATALUONE? [[File number 180/001032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u122	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you know Javier Pulido? I understand you do, but if you don't, you're gonna let me refresh your memory. Javier Pulido is a father who has been insulted, who has been harassed, who has been vilified just by asking for something as surprising as that his daughter may receive part of his teachings in Spanish. Unfortunately, in Catalonia there are hundreds of parents like Javier Pulido, so precisely thousands of people manifested last Sunday defending their linguistic rights, the rights of their children to be educated in Catalan and Spanish. They protested 'in favor of', not 'against'. They protested because they feel helpless, because the Generalitat violates the law in the face of the inaction and complicity of the Government of the nation. And so clear is his connivance with the Catalan separatists and is such the gravity of what is happening that today I will give him the opportunity to rectify, to change course. That is why I ask you: What does the government give to students in Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u124	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, the same protection as all the students who are currently being trained in autonomous communities with a co-official language and which is perfectly reflected in the education law, which ensures that all these students, when completing compulsory education, perfectly master the Spanish language and the co-official language. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u126	Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u127	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, I don't know why I should be surprised by your answer, Minister, because you and I both know it isn't. Look, the reality is that what happens specifically in Catalonia - specifically in Catalonia - where courts have had to position themselves to defend the language rights of students, has not happened in any other community. The reality is that, besides, you, with your inaction, are as guilty of what happens in schools as Mr Cambray is. You - your Government - have signed an agreement with the Generalitat of Catalonia that shields Catalan and expels the Castilian from schools, against the judgment itself of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and, what is worse, Minister, against the Spanish Constitution, which recognizes the right of the Castilian to be a vehicle language. An agreement that has facilitated and that makes you accomplices - yes, you - in violation of the law. [[Rumors]] Hence the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, hence the performance of the Education Adviser of Catalonia. Look, Minister, it cannot be the solution that is part of the problem, and you are the problem. That's why we're asking you to leave as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u128	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, I am curious about your speech because you have not quoted the elephant in the room, and you know perfectly well that there is a stay of the ruling established by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia itself, which has raised a question of constitutionality to the Constitutional Court; indeed, endorsed by the State Advocate. But look, last week I asked for rigour and consistency, this week I'm going to ask for honesty. Honesty and frankness to explain that you did not go to the Barcelona demonstration on Sunday to support or think about Catalonia or Catalan families, no; you went to Catalonia with a single goal: to deliver division and confrontation. [[Mr. Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu: No!]] You went to that demonstration grabbing Mr.Abascal's arm because what you're trying to do is get back to Catalonia in 2017. [[Applauds]] And, by the way, encourage an anti-Catalanist feeling, to see if that way you collect some kind of electoral revenue in other territories. That's the truth, even though you don't want to tell it. By the way, we're getting used to Mr. Feijoo not wanting to appear in the photos. It must have been that on Sunday he did not want to approach Barcelona so as not to provoke Columbus II. He did practice his favorite exercise, which is the hideout. But tell him not to worry, because, despite what he's doing, despite how he's behaving, citizens every week are checking that Mr. Feijoo isn't what he was. And that cry is so important that even trying to divide us with the tongue is not going to get you to hide it. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON Gerard ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: DOES IT THINK TO FACILITATE THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THAT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS INFRAUTILIZED OR IN USE ARE FOR SOCIAL PROJECTS? [[File number 180/001020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u130	Questions to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Gerard Álvarez i García, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. As you will know, one of the historic demands of the people of Catalonia is to dispose of some of the unused or underutilized facilities by the Minister of Defence who is on our land, so I ask if the Government intends to make it easier for these facilities to be available for social projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u131	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the Ministry of Defence has already reached in these four years the following agreements on disposal, transfer or concession with the respective autonomous and local authorities within the framework of legality and with the corresponding requirements. I quote: Valencia, the headquarters of engineers and the Health Group of Manises; Burgos, former park and artillery workshops; Madrid, Hospital Central del Aire; Guadalajara, Colegio Orphanas María Cristina; Ferrol, the polygon of Esteiro; the quartering of Santa Eulalia, in Sant Boi de Llobregat; the air quarters of Getafe; the weapons factory of A Coruña; the weapons factory of La Vega, in Oviedo; the church of Santa Clara, in Soria; the former military hospital of Ceuta; the former residence of battalion officers, in Ferrol; the Daoíz and Velarde quartering, in Paterna; the Military Museum of Cartagena; the royal horse ridings, in Córdoba; Son Busquets of Balearic Islands, in Palma de Mallorca; the Loyola barracks, in San Sebastian. In addition, possible agreements are under consideration, among others, on: Cabrera National Park of the Balearic Islands; Operation Camp Madrid, already well advanced; La Isleta, in Gran Canaria; Trinidad quartering, in Córdoba; the former military pharmacy, in Córdoba; the parking area of Esteiro, in Ferrol; the former Villatoro shooting camp, Burgos; the San Isidro quartering, in Valladolid, and the former naval hospital in Cartagena. As you can see, the will of the Ministry of Defence is absolute and total so that those properties that are no longer used by the Ministry of Defence, and always with the fulfilment of the legal requirements, can be used for social purposes. I think this is the best test and the best demonstration, and we do it all over Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u133	Mr. Alvarez. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. The Minister, in any case, has given me a lot of data, but at no time has she told me whether it is really going to be easier for some of the military installations in Catalonia to become social projects, either with the Generalitat or with municipalities that have been demanding for decades. That I haven't answered this question really seems a bit of an aggravation to us, it's a bit of an aggravation. I say this basically because you referred to the fact that in the debate on the state of the nation the President of the Government announced that the Camp facilities in Madrid, which are facilities under the Ministry of Defence, would become social housing. Of course, we are happy, but in that same debate, Esquerra Republicana presented a motion for a resolution to do the same, exactly the same, in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, and you rejected it. Why Madrid yes and Barcelona no? Why Madrid yes and Catalonia no? We're in the usual. Why not release the Bruc headquarters and make it available to the citizens of Barcelona, who have also been complaining for decades since Barcelona City Council, for example? Or, by the way, why don't you just, or at least help expel, from the barracks of Sant Andreu de Palomar, my land, my people, my neighborhood, to the Ancient Legionary Knights, that decrepit Francoist entity that with its occupation is preventing our neighborhood from regaining a vital space for social projects? Since you do not, perhaps we, through municipal administrative procedures, will have to do so. I want to take the job away from you, Minister. I want to help her. Esquerra Republicana wants to help cut that unorthodox military spending: hand over to the municipalities and the Generalitat those facilities to make housing and other social projects, and don't look away. It is an obligation to listen and act in our demands. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u134	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u135	Thank you, Madam President. No, Your Honor, we're not looking the other way. I believe that I have given you a very long relationship of those military establishments throughout Spain which no longer serve for use by the Armed Forces and which, moreover, have fulfilled the requirements of legality so that they are returned for social use, and that has been the clear and unequivocal will during these four years. They are not words, they are facts and, therefore, everything in Catalonia that meets these requirements - that has already been in disuse for the needs of the national defence and that in addition the requirements established by law, which are requirements that neither you nor I can save - count that the will of the Ministry of Defence is to return it for such use. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PILAR CALVO GOMEZ, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: DOES THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE FOR RESOURCES TO CONTROL THE CONTENT PUBLISHED IN THE NETWORK? [[File number 180/001019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u137	Question by Mrs Pilar Calvo Gómez, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Does the Ministry of Defence allocate resources for the control of social media content? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u139	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I don't know what the question is. The Ministry of Defence has competences, budget lines that are legally provided for, and, of course, within the scope of the Ministry of Defence's powers is neither to monitor nor to control social networks; therefore, it does not only allocate any resources, but is absolutely respectful of what is done and said on social networks. Everyone who is on social networks will have to assume their responsibility, and if there are individual actions, the person who does these individual actions will have to assume their responsibilities, but never the Ministry of Defence, which has many powers to ensure citizens, security and peace and freedom in Spain and the world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u141	Mrs. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u142	Indeed, Minister, yesterday you answered a similar question in the Senate saying that the Ministry of Defence has not manipulated the profile of Alcarràs from Wikipedia to erase the references that existed in this profile about the burdens of the Police or the Civil Guard during the referendum on October 1st, five years ago. According to you, and you have reiterated it again now, this is an individual action by a member of the Ministry of Defence staff who have been assigned to the Office of the Prosecutor. We'll see if the D.A.'s tuned it up or not this time. So I ask you: given that the manipulation of the Wikipedia profile carried out from an IP of the ministry has been discovered thanks to the complaint made by netizens, what control do you have in your ministry of this kind of actions? How do you know that this manipulation and rewriting of history has not been systematically happening? Have you taken any immediate action on this person, beyond putting the matter in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office? Why have they placed this individualized action of a member of the Ministry of Defence staff in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office and, instead, not taken the Pegasus case to the Prosecutor's Office, but left it for dispatch to the Official Secrets Committee? And, finally... [[ends your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u143	Minister of Defense,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u144	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, as I already had the opportunity to say yesterday in the Senate, immediately that it was known - and it was known not for anything special, but because Wikipedia itself asks people to identify themselves and, therefore, it is well known who does that performance on Wikipedia - immediately, not even an hour passed, the appropriate measures were taken, which was sent to the Prosecutor's Office. And you know why the D.A.? Because in a rule of law, it is up to the Office of the Prosecutor to ensure legality, not you or me. We may not share some behaviors and I certainly do not share them, but the last word is, without a doubt, the Prosecutor's Office. And we did it immediately, as we always do, because the behaviour - which I do not accept in any way - of someone who works for the Ministry of Defence cannot tarnish the performance of the 120,000 men and women of the Armed Forces who are working every day and committing themselves, as I said before, to peace, freedom and security. You want Catalonia; so do I. I have lived my entire personal and professional life in Catalonia and I believe that the line of this government - dialogue, coexistence and tolerance - is the best way, and in that we will continue to bet. Finally, if I may, I believe that you and I will agree on something - since it has become so fashionable - to wish that the movie Alcarràs has the Oscar, because it will be the best recognition to our Spanish cinema. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u145	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent call from the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation on the rise in interest rates, their impact on Spanish households and the measures the Government is taking to alleviate it. For your defence, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u146	Thank you, President. Don't go, I'll tell you some very interesting things, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Mrs. Calviño. I have to tell you that it is ugly to frivolize with the main problem that the Spaniards have today. It's ugly to attack the opposition when you're under our control because you're part of the government. And it's ugly to say that we want to go on TV when we raise a major problem that has only just started and that we should be talking about all the time. Last February 2nd, you and I discussed in this same scenario about macroeconomics and anticipated our concern about the inflationist scenario in which we were at the time and the consequences on the Spanish economy. Seven months later, we talked about this again. And let's talk about how macroeconomics, far from being an obtuse and alien concept, impact fully on the pocket of the Spaniards. The perfect storm continues to form over our heads. The crisis of despletion in the global supply chains resulting from the pandemic and the energy crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine plunged us many months ago into an inflationary spiral that, far from being a transitory bad dream, has become a long nightmare; nightmare for the central banks, nightmare for the governments, but above all, nightmare for the Spanish families. As you all know - or I hope so -, ladies and gentlemen, the only mandate the European Central Bank has is to keep inflation at bay - inflation in the euro area - with a target of 2%. Let us remember that today that inflation goes up from 9%, in particular, it is 9.1%. It is therefore the European Central Bank which, with its monetary policies - whether expansive or contractive - has the possibility of acting directly on prices, raising or lowering interest rates. In July, the European Central Bank decided to increase the reference interest rates by 50 basis points for the first time since 2011. Subsequently, following the September meeting of the Governing Council, the European Central Bank again announced a rise in rates, this time by 75 basis points, i.e. 0.75%, which is the largest rise in rates since the introduction of the euro physically in circulation. Of course this not only happens in the euro area, the Bank of England has done it, the Bank of Sweden did it yesterday or the US Federal Reserve has done it. It seems clear, therefore, that the central banks, after years of trying to stimulate the economy with expansionary policies, will now follow the opposite sign, which is rising rates and stopping to buy debt from the countries in order to try to curb the economy and to increase credit, in their desperate attempt - we can say - to curb inflation; inflation out of hand that in the case of Spain is added and multiplied by the inability shown by the government not only to contain it but not to keep it, betting on its relative anti-crisis decrees by clearly pro-inflationary measures and huge public expenditure to obtain a greater political revenue; political revenue that has been, is and will always be the great objective of this government, Vice-President, because, as one renowned economist friend of mine, María Blanco, says: you voted gestures, you have gestures. Between responsibility and political revenue, his Government chose political revenue; between long-term reforms and immediate political revenue, its Government chose political revenue. It's you, Madam Vice President, who want to be on TV all the time. But I'm going back to macroeconomics. As you all know - or I hope you do - the rise in interest rates has immediate consequences on the euribor. Euribor is not only the price that European banking entities charge for lending money to each other, it is also the benchmark for most of our country's mortgages. Therefore, if the euribor rises, the interest rates of the money rise and, therefore, the cost of the mortgages rises, exceeding that index to which a quantity is referred that is becoming increasingly unsustainable. In September, the euribor exceeded the 2% barrier, that 2% psychological barrier for the first time since 2009, and in September it is already 2.33 %. The rise in the Central Bank's interest rates - although it seems somewhat distant to be decided in Brussels and affecting things such as basic points and percentages - has a direct effect on the pocket of Spanish families. Millions of households will see how their mortgage bill increases every month. And when I talk about millions of Spaniards, I don't do it in the abstract, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of last year, there were just over 5.5 million live mortgages in our country, of which 75%, i.e. around four million mortgages, were of variable type - variable type are those that will be directly affected by the rise in interest rates - more than four million families that, with which it is falling, now have to tighten the belt even more to withstand the rise of their mortgage. Let's set an example, so everyone understands. A middle family, a young couple, who, after much saving and sacrificing themselves, in a year passes to achieve their dream of buying a house. This family will now have to spend about EUR 178 more per month to pay their mortgage for the rise in rates. In one year we talk about about about 2000 euros, which is what comes to be practically the one-month salary of one of the members of that couple to cost the mortgage rise. I know that you are going to tell me that you are taking measures, that you have raised the interprofessional minimum wage, that there is an electric social bonus and that you have raised the minimum living income. These are measures that we share, of course, are measures for the most vulnerable, but at this rate and if you do nothing, we will become more and more vulnerable. Last week we were told by Eurostat that 28% of Spaniards are at risk of poverty, and once again the injured are going to be the usual ones, the so-called super payers; those millions of Spaniards who have an average salary, which is not too high to live freed up or low enough to access government aid; those super payers who suffer the rise of gasoline because they have to go irreparably to work or to take their children and cannot afford an electric car; those people who see every month that the mortgage or the rental price goes up to them, but cannot benefit from any aid because they charge a little more than the salary that gives access to such aid; those Spaniards who have been paying a barbarity for the bill of light and gas for months, but who cannot take advantage of the government social bond because they do not meet the requirements. These Spaniards will have to make a new effort and devote a significant amount of their budget per month to pay their mortgage. An average family, let's put with two children - of which we talked a while ago -, in our country has paid in August 130 euros on average for the bill of light; in what goes by year, 900 euros In the shopping basket, every day more expensive, they already allocate about 600 euros more than last year. For every child who has had to attend school they will pay at least 400 euros on the way back to school, the most expensive for years; in our family example, with two children, 800 euros more. And let's not say it's an autonomous, because then, thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, you're going to have to pay another 100 euros a year in expenses for that unfair rise in costs. I don't think you need to make the sum, because I already tell you that the bills don't come out. An average family in our country cannot cope with life being a little more expensive every day as wages do not rise at the same rate or speed and as they continue to pay a higher IRPF, when they are becoming poorer. And all this is also because you refuse to deflate the IRPF rate, as we have been asking you since January. Nor do I need you to tell me, Madam Vice-President, that there is no money, because you have raised, in what we have been collecting from August to the end of the year, an additional 22 billion taxes thanks to inflation, and not to reverse them to the citizens, but to keep the government the largest and most expensive in history. I also know that you are going to tell me that monetary policy is not in the hands of the government. If I know; I don't know if many of the ladies and gentlemen who are here know this, but I've been contributing for twenty years in the financial sector and I know something about these issues. Monetary policy is not in the hands of governments, but governments can do things - and you know it - to ease citizens' pockets. The problem is that you are allergic to any measure that involves lowering that tax burden on families. They've refused to deflate the IRPF over and over again, we're tired of asking you and I suppose you'll be tired of hearing it. They have there, for example, the German Government, with socialists and liberals lowering taxes on citizens, but they prefer to follow other examples. That is why, Mrs Calviño, we add a new proposal to that umpteenth request for you to deflate the IRPF rate; a proposal that implies that those families to whom the mortgage is increasing can deduct that additional rise in interest rates on the income declaration temporarily and extraordinarily. This is a fully viable, reasonable proposal that will help millions of families in our country, money that goes directly into the pockets of citizens who need it without intermediaries or bureaucracy. Because we believe that lowering taxes can also be a fully effective social policy, because social policies, Minister, are not just left-wing property. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u148	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the interpellation, because I believe it is absolutely right to have a calmer debate on such an important issue for the citizens, these citizens to whom we constantly want to send a message of calm and confidence. Because in the face of this complex and turbulent international situation, I believe it is the responsibility of all to try to take the measures that will enable us to better manage this situation without losing sight of the important, medium and long-term objectives and, in particular, to reduce inequality and to have a fairer growth. I am glad that you have completed your inquiry precisely by appealing or trying to incorporate into that more social, more progressive vision of the future, which is of course the one we defend in the Government. I am also glad that you have made it clear that monetary policy is not the responsibility of the Government, because I believe it is important for the public to know that the Governor of the Bank of Spain, who sits at the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, when making decisions, when arguing or defending the action of the European Central Bank, takes into account, of course, the impact of such decisions not only on financial institutions, but also on growth, job creation, mortgages and family incomes; I hope that is the case, I am sure that is the case. I believe that you have been very correct in pointing out that the strong economic recovery following the pandemic, the bottlenecks caused by the virus in some important nodes of international trade or war in Ukraine, all of this, is generating a rise in prices that affects all Western economies, which affects Europe in a very special way and which represents the most important challenge we have at the moment from an economic policy perspective. This explains that, given the impetus of the United States Federal Reserve to raise interest rates and, given the depreciation of the euro, the European Central Bank has been called upon to normalise monetary policy, which is leading to an increase in interest rates; a normalisation of monetary policy - I think it is important to point out - which is being discussed and for which we have been preparing since we arrived at the government in 2018. This rise in interest rates is affecting the euribor, which is the reference interest rate on mortgages, and what is occurring is a normalization, because what was abnormal is what we have experienced since 2016, negative interest rates; I am sure you will agree with me. It is also important for citizens to know that euribor has increased, is growing rapidly, but it is still below the levels achieved, for example in October 2008, when it stood at 5.5%. That's the context. And from the aggregate and macroeconomic point of view, it is important to assess the impact of this rise in interest rates. The truth is that, in aggregate terms, the private sector has a healthier financial position than in the past; moreover, there has been a significant change in the structure and conditions of the mortgage portfolio; and, thirdly, we have put in place tools to facilitate the exchange of variable-rate mortgages at fixed rates, the restructuring of these mortgages and even, ultimately, the pay-off for those most vulnerable groups. Two or three weeks ago I answered a question from another political group in which I gave more details about all these circumstances. The financial situation of the families - to be recognized - is stronger thanks to the response measures to the pandemic that we have launched, because the ERTE, the extraordinary benefit of the self-employed, the aid to the solvency of the companies, which have led us to a very large issue of public debt, of about 140 billion euros, are measures that have reached the whole economy and, above all, the pocket of the families, and that is important. All citizens have benefited from the measures we put in place in response to the pandemic, just as citizens benefit from the response to the impact of the war. We have already mobilised around 30 billion euros to protect households and businesses, which you called gestures. We are talking about EUR 140 billion to respond to the pandemic and EUR 30 billion to respond to the war. In fact, up-to-date data have been published today showing how Spain is the fourth country in the European Union in terms of the volume of public resources mobilized to mitigate the impact of rising prices on households and businesses, and to try to contain inflation. We are talking about measures that reach everyone, because tax cuts reach everyone. That reference family that Mrs Arrimadas mentioned this morning and that family that you mentioned assuredly are benefiting from the fall in VAT and excise duties on electricity or the gas cap mechanism, which makes Spain able to have prices lower than the countries in our environment, despite the rise in the price of oil and gas that has occurred, especially intense this summer. And we don't just have to talk about families receiving minimum living income or non-contributory pensions. I'm sure that family you're talking about has parents who are receiving a pension and, therefore, the revaluation of pensions also benefits them. How they benefit from the 100 % bonus of the price of rail or surrounding transport and 30 % of urban transport. And you'll tell me they don't take public transport. Well, they also benefit from the price bonus for gasoline and diesel. In the same way, you have said that they have children; because they benefit from the increase in scholarships, they benefit from public education, which is not only from public schools, it is also from those congregated, to which the family you are talking about is at best going; or they certainly benefit from public health, which is universal and to which all the problems of a certain gravity derive - that is the experience I have in my environment at least from those people who in principle do not come to public health -. That is, we all benefit from having a strong welfare state, a solid welfare state, just as all citizens benefit from the measures we have taken and are mobilizing a significant amount of resources. What is most important in order to be able to cope with the difficulty of paying the mortgage or the basket of purchase or return to school of the children or the payment of the bill of light or debts that may have a family or a self-employed worker and which, precisely, form a consubstantial part of the functioning of our economy? What's most important? For these people to have employment and to have the greatest stability in this employment. In this sense, having more than 20 million people affiliated with Social Security, less than three million people unemployed, a significant increase in the social security membership of the special scheme of self-employed workers, the fact that we have a record of minimums in terms of temporaryity or youth unemployment and the unemployment rate already around 12% are measures and reforms that are leading to a better functioning of the economy and greater solidity of the incomes of families, which is most important in order to be able to meet these challenges and those ahead. This government has no ideological position against lowering taxes; moreover, we have lowered taxes. That is to say, we will take those measures which may be most appropriate and which will achieve the objectives. Secondly, I pointed out to him the change that has taken place within the mortgages in our country, the strong increase in the last years of fixed-rate mortgages, which are not affected by the increase in the euribor, precisely because of that announcement that since 2018 it has been making that interest rates would rise. Looking at the figures for 2021 alone, more than 60% of mortgage contracts were contracted at a fixed rate and in what we bring to 2022, 70%. In other words, the main average slope of the mortgages has been significantly reduced. Longer term mortgages are those that have a higher percentage of variable rate interest rates, but there is less outstanding capital and therefore the impact of this rise in rates is also lower from the point of view of household income. The main one on which the rise in interest rates is applied is lower and the burden is lower. By the way, people with variable-rate mortgages who have benefited from the fall in interest rates during these years, unlike those citizens who from the beginning have had fixed-rate mortgages because, as I told you, more than 70% of the mortgages subscribed in 2022 are fixed-rate mortgages. Last year there were 263,799 fixed-rate mortgages, i.e. there are 263,799 citizens or companies that are having a fixed-rate mortgage. I say this simply to point out that this government has to govern for everyone, for citizens who signed a variable-rate mortgage, but also for those who decided to protect themselves against the normalization of interest rates that has been announced since 2018. Thanks to the improvement of the income of families by the response measures of this Government, thanks to the low interest rate that we have had during these years, the mortgage effort remains at low levels, similar to those of the early 2000s and significantly lower, of course, than we had before and after the financial crisis. However, this is the context, but it is clear that rising rates can have an important effect on some families, self-employed or businesses. Fully aware - not now, already in 2019-, we amend the Mortgage Law precisely so that the conditions for financial institutions, that financial world in which you have worked and which you also know, to execute a mortgage credit are tightened; we have limited interest on delay, we have introduced the right to convert the loan into foreign currency to euros, we have facilitated the change of the variable-rate mortgage at fixed and limited rate the maximum commission that entities can charge to citizens. I take advantage of the call for all citizens to know this: the commission for the fixed rate change is 0.15 % if the change occurs during the first three years of the loan term and 0 % from those three years onwards. That is, if that family to which you referred has a contract with which it has already been with for more than three years, it can change it at a fixed rate without any additional cost to the financial institution. Early cancellation commissions have also been limited and we have worked with financial institutions to make improvements to the mortgage creditors'code of good practice to cater especially for people of special vulnerability. I already know that you are not talking about vulnerable groups, but all these protection measures, as well as the housing plan and European funds that we are transferring to the autonomous communities for the development of social protection housing that benefits especially young people, all these measures are benefiting the whole citizenry. In any case, Your Honor, you may rest assured. As we have been doing, we will analyse all the proposals, all the options, all the possible measures and take those that are most effective and also fairer, bearing in mind the interest of all Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u149	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u150	Thank you, President. Vice-President Calviño, I am pleased and grateful that you have also changed your tone after attacking us in the questions of the control session and now say that the debate is coming, although this debate has been more a review, once again, of the propaganda that the Government is making, hiding that many of those measures that you have quoted have had a zero impact on the Spanish pocket. He's told a lot of things in 12 minutes and it's hard, I know, because it's very difficult to handle inflation. Inflation has fallen governments and it is normal for everyone to get nervous. He is such a monster that I allow myself to quote an anecdote, because there was a president of the United States, Mr.Jimmy Carter, who banned uttering the word inflationary crisis and asked his advisers to say banana instead of inflation or inflationary crisis from that moment on. Mr. Jimmy Carter went to his house lying down by inflation. He said that you have told me many things in twelve minutes, but you have not given me a single concrete measure to alleviate the sudden and enormous rise in Spanish mortgages. Citizens are concerned about this sudden rise and the way in which families can sort out this unexpected rise in mortgage prices a little better because of the rise in interest rates. That is why, as my party president explained a while ago, we propose that families can deduct these increases in the income statement. We are talking about increases that can reach between 150 and 200 euros a month, a relief that can allow many families to get some air between so much price rise. This is a fully viable, reasonable, temporary and extraordinary proposal that will help millions of families in our country. It is money, as I said before, that goes directly into the pockets of citizens who need it without intermediaries or bureaucracy, because, also as I said before, liberals also believe that lowering taxes is a social policy of full effectiveness. You refuse, it is difficult for you to recognize the problems of the Spanish and, meanwhile, inflation continues to make a dent in the economy. Because, Mrs Calviño, while inflation is making thousands of Spaniards poorer every day, your government is getting a little richer, because the only entity in this country that benefits from inflation is the government. Since January, as I said before and has been repeated here on countless occasions, 22 billion euros more to spend, in what? More advisors, more ministries, more trips? It is that neither with this collection have you been able to have a gesture for the families, either actively, with aids or tax reductions, or passively, cutting their expenses and giving example to tightening the belt with inefficient political spending. Vice-President, if you really want to combat inflation, you have on the table a series of proposals which, on repeated occasions, since the beginning of this year 2022 and which we are preparing for, we have presented to your Government, both you and Vice-President Ribera and to the Minister of the Presidency, Mr Bolaños. You must remember that some of these measures have ended up being taken by you, albeit late. If I may counsel, I would begin at the beginning, accepting the situation, recognizing families who are having a bad time and recognizing that we are not doing enough. He knows that he has us at his disposal to be able to work to this extent and he is sure that the Spaniards, not only the vulnerable, but the middle classes and the mortgaged propagators, will thank us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u152	Thank you. It is a pity, Mrs. Muñoz, it is a pity because I believe that Citizens could have occupied a place, could be making constructive proposals and yet has been positioned from the beginning in destruction, in opposition to the Government, talking about the measures that we have put in place, classifying them as propaganda, gestures that have no effect, saying that we do not care for families... But this isn't true! It is that you undermine your own credibility when you do not recognise the action of this government! Why do they not make constructive proposals and also recognize when the Government is right and when the good decisions are made by the Government? But why aren't the successes pointed out? I do not find it logical and, perhaps, that explains the evolution of his party, that they do not see the opportunities they have to support the Government, to become a useful political party and to highlight the answers that are coming to the families. I am not going to repeat the battery of proposals and measures that we have put in place since the beginning of the rise in prices that are reaching all the Spanish families because we all have a mortgage, or we pay the return to school, and we have to fill the purchase every week, or we have a father who receives a pension, or we have a son who benefits from a scholarship, or unfortunately we have to go to the hospital and also benefit from the crown jewel of our welfare state which is our public health. So my recommendation would be that. Second thought. You talk about liberals and yet there is no problem in asking for public spending, in asking for a fall in public revenue. They have no problem asking for public aid as long as we are talking about a situation that benefits an individual. In this regard, the Government is governing for all Spaniards. I welcome your proposal, just as there are proposals from other political groups. We are going to work on it, we are going to analyze it and, if it seems to us that they are the most convenient, we will take them into account, but always thinking of the general well-being, not only of a whole or part of our population. Thirdly, you said that social policy is not exclusive to the left. Well, I hope that you will support the extraordinary burden on energy companies and banking so that we can finance all these measures of aid to the whole population, that financial sector that you know so well, because we just need to make sure that at this time they grab the shoulders that they can, those sectors that are having an extraordinary benefit as a result of the increase in the interest rates to which you have referred and which you are so concerned about, or the increase in the costs of energy and other raw materials that is harming the entire population of the Western economies. We are clear from the Government, Mrs Muñoz: we are going to continue to take action, we are going to continue to act with determination, we are going to continue to try to contain price developments, supporting Spanish families and companies, supporting the most vulnerable groups, supporting above all the working middle class and the self-employed in this country, because it is for them that we govern and, above all, we will not stop doing so because there are political groups in this House who unfortunately have such a destructive attitude at a time when we should all be as united as possible. And we will continue to do so, because we have seen the positive results, just as during the pandemic we put in place that safety net to protect the productive fabric, employment and incomes of families that is now serving so much to contain just the family budgets, and just as we support that labour reform to create more and better jobs and that it is benefiting both young people and women in our country in particular. All these measures have led us to be able to have a strong recovery, to emerge from this crisis in a way very different from the exit from the previous crises and put us in a situation of greater strength to face the challenge arising from the war in Putin. We are at a time of great uncertainty, there are many unknowns about us because of the dependence we have on the decisions of a person with such a difficult behavior to associate with the rationality that in principle guides our own decisions, but the most important thing at this time is to be united, to support each other, to strengthen the public - which has been shown to be essential to deal with the crises -, to promote a coherent response at European level and to lead actions that reach the citizens as a whole. If that is what you want, Your Honor, pleased to work together, but I believe that a destructive attitude, which does not value the actions and determination of our Government at all, is not in the right direction at this time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN HIS POSITION IN THE INTERNATIONAL AND NATO AREA AFTER SIX MONTHS OF THE INITIATION OF THE RUSSIAN INVASION IN URANIA, AND THE STRATEGY FOLLOWING ONE OF THE MOST SAFETY CRISIS IN EUROPE FROM THE END OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR. [[File number 172/000236]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u154	Let's move on to the next question. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain its position at the international and NATO levels after more than six months of the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the strategy it is following in the face of one of the biggest security crises in Europe since the end of the Second World War. For his defence, Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u155	Thank you very much, President. Almost eight months ago, on 24 February, Russia invaded Ukraine, thus unleashing the greatest war conflict in Europe since World War II. Because of its magnitude as regards the movement and mobilization of troops, because of the direct involvement of the United States and the European Union in the determined support of military material to one of the parties - Ukraine - and because of the geopolitical and economic consequences that it is having and is going to have the end of the war, this has a much greater depth than the previous ones of the Balkans. As I say, since 1945 Europe had not witnessed such a crisis, a crisis in which today Putin has taken a step further in his ruthless career by taking us into the abyss with partial mobilization. It has already announced that the People's Party condemns Putin's decision and redoubles its commitment to Ukraine and to all those who defend freedom with determination. [[Applauds]] Because Ukraine is much more than a violation of the international order to be faced with. This war - as Adam Michnik has written - reminds us of the moral dimension of politics, reminds us of the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people in the name of our freedoms and rights and reminds us Putin, once again making the link between lies and violence inseparable. They are also teachers, Mrs. Robles, her partners in Bildu. Well, in the face of the great conflict of our time, Sánchez's attitude and his twenty-two ministers could not be more painful, lamentable and disloyal. Yes, Minister, painful, pitiful and disloyal. And I say this with sadness, because the more a government was needed with clear ideas, you have not missed the opportunity to multiply your divisions, bandages and improvisations. It was painful because at first they believed that appeasement of Putin could stop the invasion. Thus, Mr Albares came to talk to us about diplomacy - with capital letters - with Putin in the same terms as Chamberlain did at the infamous Munich Conference. Then, when Putin had fulfilled his threat and Russian troops were trying to move towards Kiev, you refused to send military material and decided to send gloves and hydroalcoholic gel. Do you remember, Mrs. Robles? You called it humanitarian and defensive material because there were also helmets and vests, but they were very careful to include in the shipment any kind of material that could cause scratches to Russian troops. Do you believe that with that material that you photographed in February, when the people of Ukraine fought and detained Russian troops outside Kiev, it served to win the war? Do you think that if all governments had done like you and Mr Sánchez Ukraine could have endured the Russian offensive for five minutes? Mrs. Robles, who advised the strategy to the government on those first compasses of the Russian offensive? Who on your team scaled up Russian capabilities, undervalued U.S. support and disregarded the importance of Ukraine's resistance? Has he stopped? Will you inform the House of the Ministry of Defence's reports to design the Sanchez government's strategy in those early days of the Russian invasion? I'm sure not, because it reflected that you've been permanently wrong about everything you've driven. This conflict was great for you morally and politically; for morally, because the dignity with which the people of Ukraine have acted is the opposite of how you have behaved since you were Minister of Defence; and politically, because neither you nor the Government have lived up to the challenge that this war poses. Therefore, in a few hours they went from denying the sending of weapons to, at the insistence of the spokesman of my party, announcing it in drum and platter. Is it not a pity that you have not reported to the Defence Committee in recent months on the increases in Spanish troops in the region that have been produced and the forecasts made by the Ministry of Defence? Is it not painful that we know from the media of the transport routes of aid to Ukraine, when my group's questions answer us that it is confidential information? Is it not painful that we know how they improvise aid to Ukraine through the media - as it has been, for example, that they are going to train Ukrainian troops in Spain - and not through appearances in the Commission? Is it not painful that, at the same time as this happens, other government ministers have promoted political initiatives to appease Putin in the name of peace, such as Ministers Belarus and Montero? Is it not painful that half of your Government puts Russia's aggression on the same level as the United States' support for the resistance of the people of Ukraine? Is it not a pity that a part of the Council of Ministers today still refuses to send war material to Ukraine? Is it not regrettable that our NATO partners have to be constantly listening to the insults and disqualifications of government members? Do you find it acceptable that they be called a criminal organization by a minister and that high officials are protesting against it? Mrs Robles, it was regrettable all that happened in your Government with the NATO summit, because you know that in my group we support everything that means strengthening Atlantis. That is why the commitments they entered into did not come down to them, because it is unprecedented - and nowhere in the world happens - that a part of the government exhausts the adjectives of the dictionary of the Royal Academy to describe what was at the summit, while other parts of the government demand that Spain leave NATO and manifest itself against it. It is unprecedented that Mr Sánchez is committed to supporting the accession of Sweden and Finland, that the Council of Ministers approved it and that some of the ministers who approved it in Moncloa did not support him in the career of St. Jerome. Does this not seem to you to be a disloyalty with the partners of the Alliance and with Ukraine? [[Applauds]] There is no president in the world who, in the midst of a war, accepts that his Government publicly has two or three positions on the military alliances to which it belongs, the war material to which it refers and the international position to which it stands. One cannot behave like Bismarck at international summits, when in the rear he has a block of support for the admirers of Emiliano Zapata. Not even during a war has the Sánchez government been able to behave in a united, coherent and professional way! Or what has to happen if they are to have a minimum sense of state in the field of foreign policy and security? The attitude of the government - as I say - was chaotic and my party was not informed of what starting positions the government was going to push, neither with war, nor with enlargement, nor with the new strategic concept, nor with the balance of the summit, nor with the enlargement of the Treaty with the United States. Will you inform the House today, Minister, of what the government is going to do in the face of Putin's new escalation? Moreover, when the president of my party, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, demonstrating a responsibility and a sense of state from which you have always lacked, offered them a pact on these matters, nor have they been charged with receipt. Mrs Robles, in addition to lacking a sense of state, they lack the same political courtesy and common sense. Do you not realize that, with a government in which half of its members are willing to boycott Spain's presence in NATO and marginalize the main opposition party, Mr Sánchez's international commitments are exclusively personal and not country-specific? With that, Spain comes out much weaker from any international defence summit, because Mr Sánchez can take the picture or shoot images for his series, but he is unable to make any use of what is signed there to be supported by the whole of his Government, and that, Mrs Robles, is regrettable. Or not, Mrs. Robles? By the way, how is the agreement with the United States Government on the Rota base going? When are you planning on bringing him to the firm? Are we going to convince the ministers of Podemos of the need to strengthen, precisely at a time of military escalation like this, in times of war, the bilateral link with the United States through the bases? Or, again, do you expect the PP, the party to which you have not informed, to support you in approving the amendment of the treaty? It's unfortunate, Mrs. Robles. As it is that they do not stop blaming the war of Putin all the evils of our economy, while we are the country of the world that has increased its dependence on Russian gas and oil the most. The imports that Spain has made from Russia in the first months of this year have grown by 53%, to 4400 million euros, mainly in gas and oil. Does it seem to you minimally sensible to be financing our enemy and to have increased Russia's energy dependence? Is that how you fight Putin by financing? Is it acceptable for Mr. Alvarez to meet with Russian diplomat Vladimir Voronkov in New York these days? Do you know the agenda of the meeting? Do you think it's sensible that while Putin announces a new step in the climb, Mr. Álvarez whitewashed the Russian government? He already does it with Maduro, but does it seem normal for him to do it with Mr. Putin as well? Or do they also hide this from you, as do the state of our military arsenal? Stop skirmishing over the shopping basket in your struggle with the ministers of Podemos and assume your responsibility as Minister of Defense in a Europe at war. [[Applauds]] Focus, because you don't realize, Mrs. Robles, that it was ridiculous for you to commit to sending Leopard cars to Ukraine and then apologize because you were in - and I quote your words - 'a sorry state'. I remind you that you have been a minister since 2018 and have had four years to develop the Leopards and the rest of the arsenal, but it seems you have not had time and that is not acceptable. Since it is not acceptable for the Government of Ukraine itself to affix to Spain its little commitment and for us to be in line with military aid. Since it is not acceptable for Mr Sánchez to travel to Kiev to announce the shipment of transport vehicles and these return later to the same ship that took them. Since it is not acceptable that, until months have passed and you have verified the massive shipment of material by the United States, you have not submitted a medium-acceptable material. And what about Mr Sánchez's commitments to increase defence budgets! To whom should we listen, to him, to Mrs Yolanda Díaz, who has said that if they increase the defence budget they will not support him? Who are you going to fool, your NATO partners, Mrs. Díaz, the Spanish or everyone at the same time? I tell you one thing: Spain needs to increase military spending, because if there is anything that has shown this war is that there has been a technological revolution, and I am very afraid that, for example, the Spanish Army lacks the HIMARS projectiles that has been putting the Russian Army on the defensive. Are you planning on acquiring them by the Spanish Army, Mrs. Robles, or is your model the Leopards in a pitiful state, or leaks on the changes in the purchase of combat aircraft? Mrs Robles, you haven't missed the opportunity to disappoint. This is what he has been doing since Sánchez appointed her Minister of Defence; he did so when he supported the pardon of the 1-O coupts from the Council of Ministers; he did so when he accepted that, in order to appease the secessionists, the director of the CNI would cease because of the serious decision to have tried to defend our territorial integrity, fulfilling her duty and always under the judicial protection to which the rule of law imposed. From the moment when you with coldness and indifference agreed to the sacrifice of an innocent woman, you wander as a soul in pain by the corridors of national politics. And now, I imagine you won't have any inconvenience signing the pardon to Mr. Chaves and Mr. Griñán. Indalecio Prieto said politicians need to know how to breakfast frogs. What he didn't say was never that they had to do it with pleasure. After all this, I will ask you for an act of dignity: that the next budgets include a specific item for military support to Ukraine. I will also ask that shipments be more agile and regular and send mortars of 120 and shells and batteries of 155. We ask that, for once, you behave as the Minister of Defense of a nation that wants to live up to its international commitments. Without precedent, I trust that you will be able to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u156	Thank you, Mr. Hispan. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, International Day of Peace, I would like to begin my speech with a recognition of the heroism of the citizens of Ukraine. The citizens of Ukraine are defending not only their country, but the values of democracy, freedom, and they are doing so by setting an example for us all. Therefore, supporting Ukraine is to support peace, it is to support a system of values and it is to support democracy and what moves us to the citizens we believe in the values of peace, freedom and progress. When we are seeing such a terrible war, with massacres like those of Bucha and Izium, we have to make it very clear who our enemy is. Our enemy is Putin and what he represents. Today, your speech has been absolutely disturbing and dramatic. Worrying and dramatic when it is trying to mobilize more people to fight Ukraine and its citizens, when, moreover, it has threatened us and threatened with whatever means are needed. That is why, today more than ever, in this House, unconditional support for Ukraine must be emphasized. In my speech, I cannot fail to thank you very much. First of all, thank you to our troops. Our troops, who are playing their lives and are fully committed, as is Spain in NATO, are in peace and deterrence. Since the invasion of Ukraine began, the war - we are going to call it war - we have increased to 1,000 the number of men and women who, under NATO's mandate, are working and defending peace in deterrence efforts. My fond and grateful memory to the 600 soldiers who are in Latvia, at the Adazi base; those who are in the north, with the NASAMS battery. They are an example for all and work in coordination with members of the armed forces of other countries. My thanks go to all the men and women of the Air Force who are working and have worked in the Baltic Air Police. Bulgaria, Lithuania and Estonia. In Estonia they are doing so, they have just finished with the German pilots. The President of Bulgaria came here to Spain to decorate our pilots, who were flying to deter and protect NATO airspace. A very special recognition also to the men and women who have been in the Mediterranean Sea since February, in the Permanent Naval Group. I have had the opportunity to convey my affection to you personally, both in Latvia, in the air police in the Baltic, and in the Mediterranean. My thanks go to the equipments of the frigate Blas de Lezo, the combat ship Cantabria, the frigate Juan de Borbón, the frigate Christopher Columbus, the ship of maritime action Meteoro, the fighter Sella and the fighter Duero. Each day they give us an example of what Spain is, of the values and commitment of Spain to peace and to the Atlantic Alliance. My thanks also to all the men and women of our Armed Forces who have been working and collecting the material that has been sent and will continue to be sent to Ukraine since 27 February. A serious, silent work, as imposed by the conditions of a war, not only to collect that arsenal in powders with all the risk that it poses, but also its palletization. That material we have been sending -- tons of material -- such as long-range ammunition, lower caliber ammunition; materials and cars we have sent, such as the armored ambulance and, above all, the C90s, plus more material that obviously cannot be specified for security reasons. My appreciation to all these men and women of the Armed Forces who have been preparing, looking for that material, tons of material that has been sent to Ukraine, both defensive and offensive material and humanitarian material. And I extend this thanks also to the men and women of the Air Force, who in high-risk, high-risk missions are carrying explosive material, very complicated material, to a neighbouring country from where they help us to distribute them Ukraine. They are tireless on those journeys that pose a risk to our pilots, tireless not only to carry arms and humanitarian material, but bring people, who bring 600 Ukrainian citizens who suffer from cancer, who suffer from diseases, who suffer from vulnerabilities. They also bring to Spain those Ukrainian soldiers and fighters who have suffered all kinds of amputations. The shrapnel in their faces and the loss of their limbs are the best example of the cruelty of this war. For this reason, I would like to thank the Military Hospital of Zaragoza, all its doctors, all the health personnel who are treating and caring for all of them in particular. Also to the council of the Government of Aragon, which has provided these prostheses so that they can remake their lives. The head of the Zaragoza Military Hospital told me about the farewell the other day of those Ukrainian soldiers who returned with their prostheses and who thanked Spain for all the work that had been done. Appreciation also - because in life you have to be grateful, not come here to release a speech - to all the personnel of our Armed Forces who are currently doing training work for Ukrainian soldiers that we have also brought on our planes. As everyone can imagine, these training tasks are discreet, quiet. Already in the early moments of my talks with Minister Reznikov of Ukraine, he asked me for that training and understanding work that we are doing. My thanks to our intelligence services, which in a quiet way work side by side with the intelligence services of all the countries we are supporting Ukraine. Their work will never be known and known, but it is essential and fundamental. Appreciation to the allied countries. To transfer those tons of material that we have sent to Ukraine, and that for security reasons cannot be known, we have needed, for its volume, the support of planes from allied countries to which I would like to thank most especially, as I would also like to thank Poland. Poland, that country that is doing hub to receive all the shipments that Spain and all the countries are making. [[The lady]] Since the beginning of this war, Spain has demonstrated its commitment to Ukraine. Spain has shown that it is a serious, reliable and responsible country. I feel that the People's Party is upset that the NATO summit was a success. Yes, the NATO summit was a success. Be proud of Spain, do not be so petty, because that is the triumph of all Spanish citizens that we believe and bet on peace. Since our engagement with NATO and the European Union, we have found that one of our victories over Putin is precisely unity. I, when I go to meetings of defence ministers, both in NATO and in the European Union, see the unity of all countries; we are countries that we think differently, but we have a common enemy, which is Putin. Too bad, Your Honor! What a pity to see this People's Party, which, instead of supporting Spain, instead of supporting NATO and the European Union, is thinking of an electoral revenue that-believes - citizens are not going to consider it, because the unity of all the countries of NATO and the European Union is key, is key to winning in this war. I would like to reiterate once again the gratitude of the Secretary-General of NATO, Mr Stoltenberg, for the role of Spain. And I would like once again to thank President Zelenski for giving our ambassador's credentials to the role of Spain. Spain, as it could not otherwise be, as a serious and reliable ally that it is, acts in a coordinated manner. We're not here for protagonists. I guess someone likes the protagonism and they think he's more of a protagonist because he's coming here today to an inquiry. Some of us are not out of prominence, because we believe in peace and because we believe in Spain, in our country. Spain is working side by side in the European Union with the sanctions we are imposing on Russia and with the amount of money we are contributing to the European Peace Fund. So far, 238 million euros is being contributed to Spain, beyond all the material we are sending. I have to tell you that from the beginning, at the same time as SACEUR - I suppose you know who SACEUR is, because perhaps you don't know - you have asked us for all kinds of cooperation and support, there has been the Government of Spain, but what is more important: the men and women of the Spanish Armed Forces risking their lives. Delivery of material. You may not know that, but Spain belongs to the group of forty-five countries that we are donating in a coordinated way. We do so under a coordination which, in this case, makes the Secretary of Defensenorteamericano and to which we are supporting with the sending of permanent help. This war is a miserable war, it is the war of Putin, but Spain has shown once again, as its citizens have shown by welcoming Ukrainian citizens, that we are fully united and that we are an important actor in NATO and we will continue to be. And please be proud of the Armed Forces. I understand that the People's Party during the seven years in government did not invest anything in defense. Nothing. That's why you yourselves are missing this material now, but, believe me, this government has been in these four years...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u158	Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u159	... 13 billion in defence spending and, above all, saying publicly what you do not say: that you are very proud of the men and women of our Armed Forces and of our role in NATO and the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u160	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u161	Thank you, Madam President. About the pride of the Armed Forces, you demonstrated it when you stopped the CNI director from fulfilling her duty. That's the way you feel proud of the Armed Forces. That's how he showed it. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Robles, don't hide behind all the Armed Forces personnel you've done your duty. It is you who have not fulfilled your duty and Mr Sánchez and his Council of Ministers. By the way, I am drawn to the attention that in that line of thanks you have made, to which, of course, my group joins and adheres, there are two people to whom you have not thanked anything at all. First, the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez. I'm sure you have very little to thank. And then his colleagues on the Council of Ministers, who are constantly boycotting the support of the Spanish people for Ukraine. He didn't thank them at all, either. [[Applauds]] There is very little to thank for Mr Sánchez and his colleagues on the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Robles, you're talking about unity. The problem is that you can't demand unity, you can't ask for unity. On what face do you ask for unity when you do not have it in the Council of Ministers? When you explain what is happening with the war in Ukraine, what do your comrades from Podemos tell you? Why don't you get your comrades from We can support sending military material to Ukraine? Why do you admit that your comrades in Podemos consider it criminal support to help the people of Ukraine? If you do not have unity in the Council of Ministers, how does it require the People's Party when, moreover, the People's Party does? That's most unfortunate of you. It is the most cynical thing the government is doing throughout this war in Ukraine. It does not inform the People's Party or acknowledge receipt of the support and proposal for a pact sent to them by the president of my party, with an unprecedented lack of political consideration. And instead of thanking you for that help the People's Party gives, that parliamentary support that the People's Party has given, you tell us about unity. But it is the government that has no unity in the biggest crisis in Europe since 1945. Today Putin has taken another step. Today Putin has announced a partial mobilization of three hundred thousand soldiers. What are the plans of the Government of Spain? No one comes here to give speech, Mrs. Robles. You have very low democratic quality. You already have the authoritarian tics of the Sanchez government. There's no talk here. Here the opposition comes to demand responsibility from the Government. You make escapism your way of doing politics and you do not come to this House to explain anything. Here today my party has been asking you a series of questions, it has been asking you the reports with which you established the strategy at the beginning of the crisis, it has been asking you if there will be further increases in troops, it has been asking you questions about the new war material to send to Ukraine, which is what the Ukrainian government is asking you. Are you going to say yes or no? Are you going to explain? What is the Government's response to Putin's new challenge? Is he going to explain something to us? Are you going to say something or don't you have any plans? Or is the only thing he does is improvise? Or is the only thing you're waiting for is for the screenwriter in the Pedro Sánchez series to tell you what you have to do to look good on the plane? [[Applauds]] Because they don't do anything else, Mrs. Robles. Here I have come to ask you questions; here I have come to show you support. The People's Party supported the NATO Summit. Don't try to lie, don't try to say what didn't exist. Of course we are, we're very proud. It was a president, Leopoldo Calvo Sotelo, who called for Spain's accession to the Atlantic Alliance. By the way, it was not very fervently supported by the Socialist Party, so we are pleased that they are now firmly committed to the Atlantic bond. It was the Council of Ministers that protested against the NATO Summit. You can't fool everyone constantly. You don't copy Pedro Sánchez too, Mrs. Robles. You, who seemed to be doing something else, have unfortunately become a copy of Mr Pedro Sánchez and it is not the best thing that can happen to Spanish politics. That's why you've accepted and swallowed the frogs you've agreed to swallow. Mrs Robles, neither you nor the Council of Ministers nor Pedro Sánchez have anything to thank. We must demand answers and, of course, the People's Party thanks the men and women of the State and Armed Forces security forces and forces for all their support and commitment to the people of Ukraine, which we cannot fail to do, which you do not fail to do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u163	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I do not accept any lessons of democratic quality, neither personal nor towards the Government. I have been working for democracy in this country for many years and, of course, I do not admit any, neither you nor anyone, and I can tell you the same about this government. Let me give you a piece of advice, a piece of advice that I try to explain to you every day. The best manifestation of intelligence is prudence, it's talking about what is known, what is known. Because when you talk about hearing, when you don't know things in depth, when you don't have information because it's secret - it's not only secret in Spain, but in the European Union and, above all, in NATO - of course, there are many imperfections, many failures, such as those you have committed. I am not going to enter into discussions with you because you lack some elements of judgment that I could not give at this time as a pure strategy of the European Union and, above all, as a pure strategy of NATO. So be prudent, be prudent; do not speak of what you do not know. At such difficult times as those of us who are living, what we have to do is to tie our shoulders, trust Spain as a country. You who say you support the government, go and support, if all the supports are like this one of yours... But, believe me, Spain's commitment to NATO highlights it every time the Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, has the opportunity; it is marked by our men and women who are on missions and by those who are working secretly, secretly, because this is not Gila's war. Do you think it's Gila's war, where they call and say how many you send me or how many you bring me? Seriousness, Your Honor, very seriousness and, above all, responsibility and prudence, because if there is no prudence on a subject as serious as that of war, you are not leaving the People's Party very well. And I want the People's Party, that People's Party that for seven years has not cared about our Armed Forces, now to make an effort and work together with the Government to help Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL ROOM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION: - COMPARISON OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, REQUESTED BY THE PLURAL, REPUBLICAL AND EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, FOR EXPLANATIONS IN RELATION TO THE VULNERATIONS OF HUMAN RIGHTS BY THE MIGRATOR AUTHORITIES ON 24 June 2022 ON THE BORDER BORDER BETWEEN NADOR AND MELILLA, AT LEAST 37 PERSONS WERE KILLED AND DECENSED BY VICTIMS OF A SERIOUS POLICIAL ACTIVATION CAUSING DECENS OF HERIDS. [[File number 210/00103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the item on the agenda concerning the appearance of the Minister of the Interior before the plenary of the House, requested by the Plural parliamentary groups, Republican of Euskal Herria Bildu, to give explanations regarding the human rights violations by the migration authorities on 24 June 2022 on the border between Nador and Melilla, where at least thirty-seven people were killed and tens of them victims of a serious police action that caused dozens of wounded. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u166	Good morning and thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to share with your ladies and gentlemen information on the events that took place on 24 June in the town of Nador, Morocco, on its border with the Autonomous City of Melilla, which appears in addition to the various written questions which have also been put by your gentlemen and which have also been informed by the Government. And appearance that I do not want to begin without expressing before this Congress of Deputies, on behalf of the Government, the condolences for the tragic loss of human lives, as well as solidarity with the fifty-five civilian guards and members of the Moroccan security forces who were wounded of varying consideration. Madam President, last 24 June a large number, a large group, of people from a settlement on Mount Gurugú materialized a violent attempt - I repeat, violent - to attempt irregular entry into Spanish territory. To this end, they carried out the attempt of intrusion at an unenabled point of the border perimeter that since 2020 is closed to pedestrian transit and that was previously used as a point of departure of goods from the so-called atypical trade, this aspect that gave its infrastructure a peculiar design, since both on the Spanish side of the border and in the Moroccan one was inspected the material circulating through that post. By telling them in more detail about the development of events, allow me to break down the chronology of the incidents that motivate the Government's appearance before the plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, on 24 June 2022, about five o'clock in the morning, the Moroccan security forces informed several Civil Guard patrols on the border that a very large group was moving at a certain distance, but heading towards the fence area. Two hours later the Early Warning System of the Civil Guard confirms that a significant deployment of Moroccan police vehicles is taking place in the vicinity of the sealed area and shortly thereafter the operational centre of the Melilla Command detects the presence of a group of approximately 1,700 people. I repeat, 1700 people are heading towards the fence with offensive objects and sticks in the area of the Chinese neighborhood of Nador, where the attempt to avoid the approach to the border perimeter by the Moroccan security forces is answered with the throwing of stones, sticks and some homemade incendiary artifact and followed by races towards the border perimeter. After the first attempt to retain the Moroccan security forces, who are forced to retreat when they are outnumbered by a violent group, these people advance towards the fence trying to violate the Moroccan border in what is called milestone 3. Shortly afterwards they reach the border control security compound of the Chinese neighborhood, where, after violently forcing the doors, they access the interior of the Moroccan customs making use of hammers, axes and other blunt objects. In order to cross the border, this group of organized persons begins to exert violence against the security doors separating the Spanish territory of Morocco. In parallel, about a hundred people climbed the outer wall of the border fence on which the Moroccan security fence is located, which ended up crumbling. [[The lady]] That is, at 8:20 a.m. on 24 June, there were 1700 people in the border enclosure divided into two groups. The first, containing the actions of the Moroccan security forces through the use of stones, sticks and other offensive objects; and the other, which tries to force the security doors, using axes, clubs and even a manual radial saw. Several tens scale the border infrastructure roof and from high positions harass the State security forces, as well as the Moroccan troops by launching, as I said, all kinds of blunt objects. As a result of these actions, ladies and gentlemen, one of the Moroccan security doors is able to force itself with violence, allowing access to land for no one on the part of the group, but acting as a dangerous funnel when close to a thousand people try to cross and, therefore, generating a bottling that puts at risk the integrity of hundreds of people, a fact that repeats itself when the group manages to force an attached second door, also on the Moroccan side. The great deployment of the state security forces and bodies, consisting of more than one hundred agents, and with the support of a helicopter, a drone, as well as the local police of Melilla, succeeds in repelling, using proportional means, to the bulk of the group, although close to a hundred people manage to enter national territory and disperse through the Autonomous City of Melilla. As I have pointed out, the action of the Civil Guard, with the support of the National Police, blocks the entry of the majority of people into Spanish territory and succeeds in reducing the violent attitude of the assailants through employment - I must say clearly - timely and proportionate of the material at their disposal, including anti-disturbing material; timely and proportionate. At this time, at about nine o'clock in the morning, Moroccan forces come to the roof of the border crossing, a point of harassment to the agents of both countries, ending with aggression from that high point. Once the violence of the group, the State security forces and bodies is stabilized and dissociated, they proceed to the rejection of the border, in accordance with established procedures and the normative and jurisprudence framework of reference, of those persons who were intercepted trying to enter irregularly and violently into national territory and before being able to do so, in accordance with the doctrine endorsed by the European Court of Human Rights, the Grand Chamber. This is the chronology of the facts, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is the chronology of what happened in the national territory in some events in which fatal victims occurred, tragically, in the city of Nador, where there were also several wounded from the Moroccan Gendarmerie, while in the Spanish territory the balance was as follows: 55 civilian guards wounded of varying consideration and seven Civil Guard vehicles that were damaged as a result of the shock of blunt offensive objects, as well as different damage to material and equipment, such as the doors to access border control, which were seriously damaged. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, in relation to the events in Nador, it is clear that we are talking about an episode of violent attempts at irregular entry which, obviously, like all violence, is unjustifiable. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain - I said it and I repeat it - has been a country of emigration and is a country of solidarity, solidarity with those who are forced to leave their country as a result of violence, war, political persecution or human rights violations, and welcoming also with those who do so peacefully. But we are also a democratic country which in no way can accept that its border, which is at the same time the border of the European Union, and, above all, the public employees who guard and protect it are violently and intolerablely assaulted. When that happens, the State's response is firm, serene as well, and also necessarily proportionate. Responsible persons are identified, vulnerable persons are protected and the exercise of rights and freedoms by all of them are guaranteed. We are talking about facts that are also under various investigative processes: the one carried out by the Office of the Attorney-General of the State, which, dated 28 June 2022, that is, four days after the attempted violent assault on the Spanish border, entrusted to the Prosecutor of the Foreign Office to investigate what has happened, a task that, obviously, from the very beginning, counts and will count on the cooperation of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior; and the one that carries out, on the other hand, these General Courts, through its High Commissioner, for the defence of fundamental rights and public freedoms, that is, the Ombudsman, with whom the Government and this Ministry of the Interior are collaborating, as it could not otherwise be, from the very first moment; investigations that coincide temporarily - I would like to highlight - also with the judicial process that has taken place in Moroccan territory. Therefore, they are extremely serious facts, they are facts under various investigations and they are facts that must make us reflect on the future of our border policy. In this regard, Madam President, I would like to stress that the protection of our physical environment, border control and the regulation of migratory flows through the definition of orderly, regular and safe routes is one of the Government's security priorities. That is what I said on 17 February 2020 when I appeared before the House's Committee on the Interior and I defended it in the conduct of various parliamentary initiatives. I would also like to point out that in the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla the Government has developed three important lines of action in improving the border perimeter. The first, the urgent thing: to address the modernization of the fence. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, on 18 January 2019 the Council of Ministers approved the plan to modernize and improve the perimeter fence of the autonomous cities. This plan has resulted in a key security infrastructure, in which previous governments have not made a single improvement in silence, the installation of more efficient structures, the improvement of technical measures in the field of closed television circuits and the sensorization of the fence with the aim of providing it with early detection capabilities to facilitate the performance of State security forces and bodies. The implementation of the first phase has now been completed in both autonomous cities and at the time of the events the second phase was being carried out and implementing the provision of improvements to the closed television circuit to the entire fence of the city of Melilla. The second line of action has focused on improving and strengthening the capacities of State security forces and bodies. To this end, the Government has promoted a policy of troop recovery in the Civil Guard and the National Police. We have done this because between December 2011 and December 2017 the number of agents fell dramatically, as I have heard several times, in more than 13,000 people, from 155 000 to 142 000; that is, for each year of the People's Party government, about 1800 people were lost. To alleviate this real blunder of agents in our towns and cities, but also in our borders, this government has implemented three public employment offers that, exceeding 125 % of the replacement rates, has managed to create 12,400 new net places in four years, thus passing from an annual destruction of 1800 agents to the daily - daily - creation from June 2018 of nine places. This increase has also seen its reflection, as it could not otherwise be, in the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla, which have incorporated more than 131 troops in recent years. Therefore, today we can talk, in the case of Melilla, about a border that strengthens its security with more agents - there are places and catalogues of occupation - and more means. There is the deployment of state-of-the-art air assets, as well as four rapid intervention modules in Melilla to monitor the border fence. Finally, the third line of work has focused on the deployment of a strategy of cooperation with countries of origin and transit, which is an essential strategic dimension for the effectiveness of the control and management of migratory flows, since it certainly facilitates border surveillance and effectiveness, improves the fight against organized crime, which, as I have heard from other times, traffics with human beings, and at the same time allows the effective articulation of the return of those in Spain who are in an irregular situation. It is a strategy, ladies and gentlemen, which ultimately saves lives, and I have heard that too. And this cooperation strategy is articulated in the various international police cooperation projects, of which the joint teams of the State security forces and bodies take good account with the police of countries such as Mauritania, Senegal, the Gambia, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau and Mali and the resources for training and improving the capacities of the security forces of several transit countries, but it is also articulated in the international agenda developed by the Government of Spain through the Ministry of the Interior on the definition of bilateral working relations with more than 30 countries and which has its reflection at the level of the European Union with initiatives such as the MED5, which has allowed the countries that are the southern border of the European Union - Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Malta and Greece - to have a unique voice in the work before the JHA and in the negotiation of the migration and asylum pact, since we believe that border policy should not be the one that can save themselves from each country, but must acquire a dimension and relevance at the level of the European institutions. This is a strategy, Madam President, which has had important results. There is the reduction in more than 54% of the irregular entries in Spain during 2019, there is the decrease in 23.3% -330 fewer people - of the irregular entries in the autonomous cities of Melilla throughout 2021 and there is the downward trend, as I said this morning, of the last immigration balance, where it is seen that we continue with the continued decrease in the irregular arrivals to Spain, since in the comparative study last year 2021 the number of total arrivals to Spain at 15 September stood at 16% less, while fifteen days earlier it was simply 10.2% less. And this same trend is seen in arrivals by sea, where we have gone from -12.9% to -14.1% in fifteen days, and the same is true of arrivals to the Canary Islands, where, being with positive percentages compared to last year, at the present date we are already at something less than 2% compared to 2021. Therefore, Madam President - I conclude - with this appearance I have tried to explain to this House the events that have taken place in the city of Nador, Morocco, on its border with the Autonomous City of Melilla, events which - I repeat - we have had to regret the tragic loss of human lives, as well as personal damage suffered by members of the Moroccan security forces and fifty-five civilian guards, who have been wounded of varying consideration, to whom I wish to thank publicly here, as I have done on other occasions, their continued dedication to the protection of the security of our border perimeter, as well as to the troops of the National Police and the local police of Melilla. These are facts that are born as a result of a violent attempt by a group of approximately 1,700 people to attack the Spanish border; facts about which, thanks to the policies of modernization of the border perimeter, we have not had to regret further damage on Spanish territory. I therefore believe that we must continue to improve the security of our border - it is the security of our democratic system - and that of our European partners, and we must continue with a migration policy that in the dimension of security - because, as you all know, it is a polyhedral phenomenon - we must continue to rely on the protection of our physical environment, being based on the definition of regular, safe and orderly routes for managing migratory flows; a policy that it has in modernising the border perimeter to make it effective and secure, on improving the means and capacities of public employees responsible for their security, and on cooperation with the countries of origin and transit as well as with our European partners three pillars on which to settle firmly. I conclude this first speech, and, Madam President, I make myself available to the House and to the various parliamentary groups to respond to their different requests for information. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Firstly, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, on 24 June there was a violent assault on the Melilla fence by some 2500 emigrants. The attempt resulted in a large number of deaths and injuries on the Moroccan side. According to some NGOs, up to 72 people died. Today you haven't even told us how many people have died. The whole of Spanish society considers President Sánchez's statements, which I recall here, to be very unfortunate and serious: 'Morocco's security forces have been used thoroughly, it has been a well-organized and perpetrated but also well-solved assault', and it remains so wide. These statements are joined by Minister Albares and those of the faithful squire of Sánchez, Mr.Marlasca. There were 72 dead. Is this a scrupulous performance for you, as you defined it, Mr. Marlaska? You will agree with me that you must explain as well. And the other times they attack our civilian guards and cops with forks, live lime, with dangerous means, what are they, Mr. Marlaska? Aren't they a violent assault on our borders too? Why is it not as strong in defending the Spanish forces and security forces as the Moroccan Gendarmerie? He also explains that as of year 2000 civilian guards and police were injured in Ceuta and Melilla. Why didn't you do absolutely nothing? In March there was a massive assault on Melilla. Why didn't you do anything to prevent possible assaults like this? Eight massive attacks were attempted prior to 24 June. And why didn't you do anything? And, even more serious, you did not dare to defend the Spanish forces and security forces from the grave accusations of the Moroccan National Human Rights Commission. The facts occur in the part of the fence that belongs to Morocco, to which the Spanish security forces and bodies have no access, so they could hardly open any doors. But you did not even dare to say that; without a doubt, words that show haste to defend Morocco's actions and a worrying lack of sensitivity to the tragedy that has occurred. Minister, you appear in this plenary as lifeguards of President Sánchez. It is the President of the Government who should appear here today, as requested by the People's Group, and take responsibility for this tragedy. [[Applauds]] Your appearance is agreed with Bildu and Esquerra: a little theater, a little light to dazzle the public and let nothing of the truth be seen. All planned and coordinated with your partners, without much harm to each other, that we already know Bildu is interested in you staying there to bring all ages closer to the Basque Country. Ladies and gentlemen, the cold words of the President of the Government in the face of a tragedy of extraordinary magnitude, with 72 dead, are worrying. Their response believes that they are trying to close down their inoperativeness in the crisis caused by the massive and violent assault on Melilla at any cost. Minister, it is no longer surprising that the government has been the most opaque since data exist. For hiding, even hiding the statistics, the more than 8,000 immigrants who entered Ceuta in May last year. What won't they be able to do if they even make up the statistics for us? Instead of being transparent and reporting publicly on the data in their possession, they impose silence, even within their own Government; up to five times they silenced Minister Montero at the post-tragedy press conference of the Council of Ministers. We demand clarification of the circumstances that have led to this tragic outcome and also whether the Spanish Ministry of the Interior had information on what was going to happen. We need to know if there was any prior information that would precede that jump from the fence. Were there, Minister? If there were and were not anticipated, there is a total lack of forecast. And if there were no such previous information about possible settlements on the Moroccan side, it is that someone is taking their hair, because it is difficult to hide these massive movements of 2500 people. According to a number of reports, most of them were Sudanese who crossed Algeria. Can you tell us what role Algeria played and whether there was permissiveness to cross the country from point to point once relations between Spain and Algeria were broken? Minister, how has the government's migration discourse changed since the reception of the Aquarius in 2018, with its huge media coverage, its partisan use and the open-door messages, which, without a doubt, were a claim for the mafias. Today, because of its erratic immigration policy, Spain is the collage of immigrants in Europe. [[Show a chart]] This graph, when you talk about good management, should embarrass you; you have the record of immigration entry since 1999, because there are statistics; you are the champion of Europe in the mismanagement of immigration and here are the data, not the story you tell us. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, the problem of immigration is faced and will be faced by many governments, and it can be managed well, regularly or badly, as you do. The lack of protection of borders with the limitations imposed on security forces and bodies in no way helps to avoid massive jumps and arrivals to the peninsula. Today we show our support for the Spanish forces and security forces, who in this assault have endured fifty-five officers of the Civil Guard wounded. For incomprehensible reasons, the Government obliges the National Police and the Civil Guard to work in precarious conditions. We call for more adequate and adequate human and material resources and for greater cooperation in the fight against the mafia. Can you tell me, Mr Marlaska, how they could face and defend the border 16 civilian guards who were on duty on 24 June, being a 12-kilometre border and facing 2500 immigrants? What reserve of forces did the Civil Guard and the police have at the time? How many have returned? To this day - you speak of catalog -, of a catalog of 343 in Melilla, there are only 100 agents, distributed in five groups of 20 people. Do you know that in the new call for vacancies for Melilla and Ceuta for citizen security no Civil Guard position has been called? The government spokesman says that lying is a sin, but you lie blatantly and have to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. Look, from 2012 to 2018, according to your own responses and the Ministry of Public Service, there are 9868 fewer, not 13,000; and since you are, 6019, not 13,000 have been recovered. The Ministry of Public Service says so, and you're a liar. [[Applauds]] Alone, without means and helpless, this is how the security forces and bodies of the State are facing. Mr Marlaska, what happened so that Mr Sánchez would go from holding Morocco responsible for the assault of the fence in Ceuta and calling it unacceptable for Morocco to use minors on the Tarajal border to question the reception of the leader of the Frente Polisario to support Morocco now? Does it have anything to do with Pegasus? Does it have anything to do with the change of position on Western Sahara? What compromised information has Morocco got from you, Mr. Marlasca? Does it have anything to do with the breakdown of relations with Algeria? Who wrote the letter that was sent to Morocco with the change of position on the Sahara? Say it here because it's transparent. The 180-degree turn of the politics of the Spanish Government not only affects the position of the Sahara and the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, it also draws attention to the change of socialist discourse between the tragedy of El Tarajal in 2014 with fifteen dead and the one that occurred in Melilla with 72. With the political offensive deployed by the PSOE in 2014, sixteen civilian guards ended up being charged, and fortunately, the justice filed the case and endorsed its action; the justice grounded the PSOE's accusing finger against the government and against the actions of the security forces. The PSOE then called for the resignation of the minister and the president of the government and even came to ask for a commission of inquiry in this Congress. The then deputy Pedro Sánchez charges against Rajoy for saying 'what happened in Ceuta', that was Rajoy's sentence. Imagine if Rajoy comes to say what Sánchez has now said: the PP couldn't even walk the street, Mr Marlaska. Even those who aspire to succeed you as Minister of the Interior and who today are the director of the cabinet of President Sánchez, Antonio Hernando, have subscribed to the thesis of blaming the forces and bodies of the state. And I read textually: 'The work of anti-disturbing could have been the cause of the death of those immigrants', I close quotes. It's painful and disgusting. At that time the government even showed us the images of what happened in Congress, those images that you deny us today and we cannot visualize; the maximum opacity with the socialist government. We, Minister, gentlemen of the PSOE, are not like you, and we will wait for justice to decide, for the investigations that Mr Marlaska said were open about the 72 deaths. Or, please, Mr Marlaska, tell us how many dead there were, because today we don't even have those data, we only know them by the NGOs. We'll wait to find out if we have to ask for resignations or commissions of inquiry. At the moment we demand political responsibilities, transparency and the truth, because today we have not been able to hear it after his words. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u170	Thank you, President. Lord Great-Marlaska, don't be frightened; you've seen me go up to the rostrum and put a scared fugitive face that you don't know where to run. Don't worry, calm down, please, although I understand that it's not easy for you, as it's the lockdown of Morocco, a country for you partner and friend that promises to contain illegal immigration in exchange for a few bizums of millionaire amounts to then leave you totally unprotected and even guilty when the misfortune produces in the area bordering the sea, with the Moroccan village of Beni Ensar. In other words, the tragedy occurs in the fence, yes, which Morocco has installed by reusing the concertinas that you removed from the fences of Ceuta and Melilla to put its feathers inverted; some feathers inverted that, by the way, so much headache are giving it. The area that is close to the so-called Chinese neighborhood in Melilla is also an area where there are still no inverted combs, its great failure. Anyway, to what I was going, what a small move the Alawite king has made. It is what you have to rely on in a country with little scruple and much arrogance, which you are not able to stop. Because those two thousand immigrants traveled a hundred kilometers to reach first Mount Gurugu and set up their camps there until they waited for the moment of the assault and then headed for the Beni Enzar area, adjacent to Melilla. And when is the performance of the Moroccan gendarmes taking place to stop that avalanche? All these immigrants leave organized at six in the morning from the skirt of Mount Gurugú, and from there to the vicinity of the Beni Enzar border there are more than 5 kilometers. Couldn't the Moroccan Police act there? Did you have to wait until they got to Beni Enzar to see dawn on the way, at six in the morning? In short, Morocco is taking the plunge, plundering the pocket of Spain and Europe by making the paripé on foot, pretending to be a police officer of legal immigration, and you are there, justifying your policy and your friendship with the Alawite Kingdom. Mr Marlaska, Spain cannot leave immigration control and the protection of its sovereignty in the hands of a third country, let alone a country which has already shown that it is not reliable. As much as you and your official statistics regarding immigration flows continue to conceal the actual number of immigrants who entered Ceuta between 17 and 18 May 2021, the reality is that it is and more than twelve thousand illegals entered Ceuta in less than forty-eight hours, and it was the Moroccan gendarmes who pushed Moroccan subjects to cross Ceuta. And at the height of absurdity, you leave Morocco control of immigration. By the way, none of your subsidized media has helped much in this scheme. They all published that the tragedy was in the Melilla fence. And the NGOs, who also profit from public money, have not helped him either. In fact, for example, in 2022 the Spanish Refugee Aid Commission received a subsidy from the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration of €23750,000. But it is one of those non-governmental organizations that accuses you of using violence to defend our borders. In the face of this pressure, I imagine that you will have already planned to increase the subsidy a little further in the State General Budgets by 2023; a little, won't you, Mr Marlaska? And for your sake, those who have sat you on the bench of defendants today to explain are your other partners, these partners who are the life insurance of this government to stay in power: coups, separatists and heirs of ETA. You're surrounded by the best of every house, Mr. Marlaska. [[Applauds]] Of course, Mr Marlaska, that in the VOX Parliamentary Group we regret each and every one of the deaths that occurred on the Moroccan border on 24 June and anyone that occurs in the Mediterranean, but, Minister, it will not be VOX that excuses you, because it is your portfolio and this government that implements open-door immigration policies that only cause the arrival of massive and disorderly illegal immigration, that sows chaos and produces a so-called ferocious effect, a so-called effect that could be observed that same 24 June when all - all except your president, who did so with delayed effect despite having a caterva of eight hundred advisers, of whom four hundred are Presidency - we saw the images so lamentable, so terrible and so inhumane of the two thousand illegal immigrants who tried to jump the border fence of Beni Ensar with Melilla, with more than thirty dead and so many injured. But you and I both know that a few days before this avalanche there was a transfer of immigrants from the Melilla CETI to the peninsula and that in these cases it is precisely the NGOs that warn of the low occupation of the CETI, making appeals to the mafias and putting into effect what is being translated into tragedy days later. You have come to make massive transfers out of the CETI of Melilla up to one hundred and twenty immigrants a day, and this only a few months ago, in March of this year. Wow, Mr. Marlaska, March, just when two attempted assaults on Melilla's fence also took place in one day! Not one, but two, in March 2022, after you pulled one hundred and twenty immigrants out of CETI. They want to give the image that none of the CETI in the cities of Melilla and Ceuta are collapsed, producing that so-called effect, which goes away from their hands, with dramas like the one that made him appear today. On my last visit to the temporary immigration centre in Ceuta, where I asked for information on various aspects concerning the departure of immigrants to the peninsula, they assured us that the departures were between ten and twenty illegal per week, always keeping the same number of residents. In other words, every week the same number of illegal immigrants enter the city from CETI in Ceuta to the peninsula. I encourage you, in your reply, if you are going to use it, to tell me the exact number of immigrants who have moved from the CETI of Melilla and Ceuta to the peninsula in these years to the head of the Ministry of the Interior; it is certainly a very interesting figure. And while I wait for your answer, here I show a headline. [[Show an article from the newspaper El Faro de Melilla]] El Faro de Melilla, March 3, 2022: 'The CETI welcomes 150 migrants after the transfer to the peninsula of 600 in months'. Congratulations, Mr Marlaska, you will pass on to history as the minister who never had to the temporary residence centers of saturated immigrants, thus contenting NGOs who rarely fulfil the laudable purpose they claim to be defending and who are necessary co-operators of this illegal trafficking in persons, thereby enriching the mafias who traffic in human lives both by land and by sea. [[Applauds]] And that, Mr. Marlaska, I don't say. To a parliamentary question from the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Executive provides us with data reflecting a gradual increase year after year in criminal organizations engaged in illegal immigration. If we have fourteen criminal organizations dedicated to the trafficking of immigrants accounted for in 2016, we have increased to sixteen in 2017, twenty-six in 2018 and thirty in 2020, and we do not have the data of the current number since the statistics have remained in the year of pandemic. To date, therefore, the number of such organizations has doubled as a result of the data they have offered us. Congratulations, Mr Marlaska; congratulations again, with you in the Ministry of the Interior the criminal organizations are rubbing their hands, literally. [[Applauds]] And congratulations, Mr Marlaska, you will also pass to history as the Minister of the Interior who produced the effect called voracious and lamentable, causing more deaths on both sides of the fence. And once I've congratulated you on being covered in glory in this legislature, I'm going with another aspect. We have already said that the deaths occurred on the Moroccan border. Therefore, the possible violation of human rights denounced by these NGOs and those formations that claim to defend human rights, one of which represents in this House ETA's heirs, who took away life, the main human right, almost a thousand people - small is the legitimacy of their denunciation - was not on the part of our forces and security forces of the State, so they cannot be asked for any responsibility. [[applause]] That, first of all, and, secondly, that 24 June - you have acknowledged - the facts were perfectly organized and violent. Listen, our National Police and our Civil Guard, in defense of our borders and our sovereignty, are in a much smaller number than the assailants. They sell anti-disturbing means - you leave them in many cases without that material in the vans -, without effective protective equipment and find themselves with the assault of thousands of armed migrants, armed with hooks, with hooks, with sticks, with hooks, with shears to cut the wire, with bottles full of excrement and even with live lime.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u171	Mrs. Lopez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u172	I'm done, Madam President. You speak of proportionality. The image that their subsidized dicasteries take out is that of the immigrant with bloody cuts, never that of an injured agent who in defense of his homeland, without the support of his ministry and his Government, faces immigrants, thousands, and each with an arsenal of white weapons. Mr. Grande-Marlaska, allow our civilian guards to defend themselves from these attacks on our homeland with all possible resources, material and human resources.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u173	Mrs. Lopez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u174	Reinforcements so that they can fully protect our borders, together with the corresponding legal protection. It does not leave them helpless, who are protecting from the attack on our homeland. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo, it was stated that Mr Guijarro was going to intervene, but I understand that Mr Santiago Romero is going to intervene. [[Consent]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u176	Thank you very much, President. First of all, as it cannot be otherwise, by expressing a sense of sympathy and the deepest feelings of solidarity of the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can for all the victims caused by the events of Friday 24 June on the Spanish border of Melilla to their relatives and relatives; for all the foreign victims and all the national victims that have occurred. From this rostrum of Congress he clearly proclaimed that these events should never have happened and that Spain has undertaken an ethical, political and legal obligation to investigate what happened, if necessary to demand responsibilities and, above all, to take steps to ensure that something like this never happens again, and, of course, to repair the victims and their families. We cannot address issues relating to migratory flows as if it were a war. Migration flows are as old as humanity, and more so in a country like ours where anyone who believes he has in his ethnic DNA purity to raise his hand. The Phoenicians, the Greeks, the Romans, the Goths and the Arabs have been here since time immemorial and it is clear that migratory flows do not remain stable, but move. With this in mind, first of all, I would like to expose the speech of the right and the right and ask that no public administration in Spain subscribe to this speech in order to address these realities. There is no invasion or any problem of sovereignty in relation to the management of migratory flows. Ten years ago, in 2012, Spain had, according to the census, 46,800,000 inhabitants, of which 520,000 foreigners, 11.18%. In 2022 - ten years later - Spain has 47,400,000 inhabitants and 5,400,000 foreigners, 11.42%. That is, practically a very small population growth and the same percentage of foreign population in our country. There is no invasion and there is no problem in managing migratory flows. What does that mean? We need to learn how to manage this reality by applying international and national laws. Those images of dead, wounded, and held dead, all mixed up with no attention, have turned the world around and I think it's easy enough to avoid it again because of its volume. In addition, they are causing absolutely unmanageable situations for staff members. We cannot make distinctions based on the nationality or colour of the skin of people seeking protection in our country. In the same way that we give due attention to refugees coming from Ukraine in centres such as Pozuelo, we have to take care of applicants for international protection coming from Sudan Chad who, instead of arriving in Pozuelo, arrive at the borders of Ceuta and Melilla. It is clear that what we have to do, firstly, is to know exactly what has happened; secondly, to establish those responsibilities, and, thirdly, to ensure that it does not happen again, much less. International protection policies are based on protecting persons who claim a well-founded fear of persecution for having violated their rights, whether for political, religious, ethnic, national or even for belonging to a particular social group. In other words, it is not very clear in international law that persons who suffer a clear violation of their social rights by belonging to an excluded social group are not entitled to seek international protection, which means that such persons cannot find themselves in a situation where international legality is not fulfilled to meet such demands for international protection. It doesn't matter what sources we consult and it doesn't matter if there have been 37 or 42 dead, it's a barbarity of the dead - it's talking about more than 60 wounded in Moroccan territory and here, in Spain, it's talking about approximately 60 wounded -, what's even worse is the criminal treatment that's being given to these people. As of 10 September, 75 migrants - mostly Sudanese - have been prosecuted or convicted by Moroccan justice for these events. Of these, 60 are already sentenced between four months and two and a half years in prison, in addition to fines. This is prohibited by the Geneva Convention. In other words, no one can be penalized for seeking international protection, and any lawyer knows that. Today, 21 September, 15 more victims of this border crossing are being prosecuted in Nador. There are many instances in the international community that have called for an impartial investigation. The UN Committee on Migrant Workers stated on 28 June that it is necessary to clarify how the victims died when they fell from the fences or in the stampedes as a result of some action by border agents. On 5 July, the European Commission called for these deaths to be investigated as well. The European Commissioner for Home Affairs herself, Mrs Johansson, even says that persecution of migrant mafias - and this is very important - cannot make people in migratory flows see themselves at the end deprived of their rights. In this House, too, various parliamentary groups have called for the creation of a committee of inquiry. But the bad thing is not that, the bad thing is that Morocco has also submitted an investigation and above it is allowed the luxury to hold Spain and the Spanish officials responsible for what happened. With this, there is no doubt that we need to move forward in clarifying what has happened. In any case, our asylum legislation makes it absolutely clear that at border crossings there must be a care post for applicants. What's the reality? That these posts have been established, but there is no protocol with Morocco on the southern border so that asylum-seekers, and who want to seek international protection, can access these border posts. That is what is most urgent to correct: to establish a protocol allowing those persons who enter the border in search of international protection to have access to those posts established by Spanish legislation. Our asylum law, which entered into force 13 years ago, to avoid these problems at the border, says that asylum applications must be dealt with in the Spanish consulates and embassies. For 13 years, it has been delegated to regulatory development and 13 years without regulatory development are too many years. There is no doubt that if there was a protocol at the southern border so that people in a situation of persecution could have access to asylum from those offices, which already exist and to which no one comes, part of this problem would have been avoided. In addition, if the Spanish consulates and the Spanish embassy were to respond to these asylum requests as provided for in the asylum law, these border collapses would also be avoided. That is to say, the management of international protection that the European Union is doing is very poor, and we are talking about figures that allow these problems to be corrected and addressed with due respect for fundamental rights. In addition, the figures for recognition of international protection for foreign nationals who were involved in this incident at the Spanish Asylum Office border are very high. The vast majority of foreign citizens who suffered these unfortunate events and who were victims at the border are from Sudan. Last year, 91.75 per cent of asylum applications for international protection lodged in Spain by Sudanese citizens were answered. A good part of these citizens were also from Chad. Last year 82% of the applications for international protection submitted in Spain by Chadian citizens were met. In other words, our country understands that Sudanese and Chadian citizens have deep fears of persecution and require international protection. What's going on? That with all cynicism we block the mechanisms established by the law, block the possibility of access to the border post and block the possibility of applying for asylum in consulates and embassies? What's left then?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u177	Mr. Santiago, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u178	For the only mechanism left, if we ourselves block the law, is to assault the gates of the border in order to demand that the law be enforced, and that cannot be. That is why the request I make, so that this will never happen again, is for these measures to be urgently undertaken to ensure access to asylum-seekers' posts at the border and for the necessary regulations laid down in article 38 of the Asylum Act to be established...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u179	Mr. Santiago, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u180	... so that applications for international protection can be submitted to the consulates and the Spanish embassies in Morocco. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u181	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u182	Spain pays and Morocco kills. Europe pays for externalisation of borders and migration control and Morocco kills. Europe pays and Morocco kills. As in Akhfenir, Tarfaya, where the Moroccan police a few days ago shot a young woman in the chest who was climbing to a patera to leave Morocco - obviously you know it - and also as on June 24 in the Melilla massacre, I repeat, in the Melilla massacre. [[Shows her t-shirt that says, 'Melilla Massacre']] By the way, not on our behalf. I am sure that in this Chamber there are many people who think this, people even within their party. It is his first official appearance, Minister Grande-Marlaska, as Minister of the Interior, after a massacre of dozens of people on Spanish territory. And I say Spanish territory, because it is Spanish territory. And I am not saying this, but the General Directorate of the Catastro, under the Ministry of Finance, and also the maps of the National Geographic Institute, integrated in the Ministry of Transport, that place the esplanade where violent deaths and murders occurred in Spanish territory, news, even, of many newspapers of those days. The Ministry of the Interior, its ministry, ensures that this is Moroccan territory. Please explain to us if you are from Morocco, if you are from Spain or if you have given this part of Spain to Morocco. This is one of the questions, but I have a few more. It is his first appearance in this house to account for the massacre of many tens of people and he does so - I have been listening very carefully -, sadly, to criminalize the victims and to call the victims violent. This proves - and I say sadly once again - the exponential increase in the use of force, not only of physical force, but of verbal force, on the part of both political officials, as you, and your forces and security forces in their actions at the borders. You regard - I say sadly again - migrant people as a threat rather than as subjects of law and also of care, Minister. Just because of this you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, sadly, do not want to end once and for all with the hot returns in the reform of the Law bites. Why do I say you don't want to end them? Where's Comrade David? Here it is. Because to end the hot returns, David, you have to remove the hot returns also from the foreign law, because, if not, it's a change of chromosomes. It's a shame for us. Not everything, Minister, not everything is worth washing your hands. Not everything, and I mean the commanding officers of the Spanish Police, is worth washing up the hands of the murders that took place on 24 June at the Melilla-Nador border. On the morning of 24 June nearly 2,000 people, the majority of refugees from Sudan and Chad, nationalities who are granted asylum in Spain almost entirely - as Congressman Enrique Santiago has just said - were caught as rats at the border post of the Chinese neighborhood Nador-Melilla, and dozens of them were killed in a rat trap; yes, they were killed. Minister, I saw this mousetrap because I was there - other Members were there too - four days, a week later, and I picked up an arsenal of rubber balls and tear gas. I saw, Minister - and I say it with great emotion, truly - that there was blood in the fence. I had not said it here, but today is an important day to say it: there was blood in the fence. Moreover, there were rags of people's clothes hanging in the fence. You didn't hide that. You have the feeling of impunity, because you have been doing this for many years, and you have the certainty of impunity. I say again not in our name. [[Applauds]] I have been changing the text, comrade Gerardo knows, because he had made a very squared text, but, as this is a topic that surpasses me, and that I think it surpasses many people in this house, I say one more thing. Yesterday a Member of the PSOE said here: We do not have a problem with democracy. I am very sorry, but, as a Brazilian, I tell you that my country, Brazil, has a terrible problem with democracy and that Spain too; let's assume it. He has a problem with democracy and he has a problem with the actions of his forces and security forces at the borders, but also on the streets. I repeat, you have a problem with your democracy. Did you compare Spain to Brazil? Yes, I am comparing it and, indeed, to Bolsonaro's Brazil; what happened on the southern border is Bolsonaro's Brazil, which, by the way, on October 2 we will eliminate from the presidency. I say again not in our name. The externalisation of border control by the European Union and the Spanish State to the Kingdom of Morocco, above all - there is not the Minister for Foreign Affairs - after that of the Sahara, was recently endorsed with the allocation of an item - eye! - of EUR 500 million from the Community budget, an increase of 44.5 % over the previous year. This continues to aggravate the situation of extreme vulnerability in which migrants are systematically, systematically. The fundamental right to life is being violated. The right to life! Dozens of people were killed and dozens, by the way, are still missing. Families are trying to find out something about those people who are missing, Minister. All these people who were killed had a family, had dreams, and had a life plan. Migrants are not violent people and I say it again and again every time they are necessary until I get sick of you, until I leave this house and until I stop being a Member of Parliament. Don't criminalize migrant people because we're not violent people, we're not violent people. It is not all right to endorse your political speech, Minister. You do a terrible damage and you make an extreme right speech when you criminalize migrant people. Don't do it. As for the enormous increase in the use of force by the state security forces in their actions on border territory, considering - again I say it - migrant people as a threat, while subject to law, I will say that human rights are for all humans and not, as Bolsonaro says, for some humans, which is what you are doing in the Spanish State with migrant people on the southern border. How they do not regard these people as human beings, they have no rights because they are not human. You have always stated that the June 24th massacre this year was within the scope of legality. Minister, there are videos, there are photos and there are drones showing arrests of Moroccan gendarmes on Spanish soil, and this was thanks to the Spanish security forces who opened the door to them allowing them to be handcuffed. I was at CETI for four and a half hours and I saw people injured with rubber bullets, I saw one man in a wheelchair and one man with a leg band and everyone told me that the Spanish police shot them. What kind of material did your police use, Minister? Why didn't they open the door to these people, who were dying on the floor? I didn't bring any pictures because it's terrible to see and I have respect for those people. Why didn't they open the door when there were dozens of people dying? Why didn't they open the door? Why didn't they call for an ambulance, for example? I ask you: do you believe that these actions are within the framework of legality? There is evidence that weapons were used by the Spanish security forces both for the testimonies and for the ballistic tests collected by me, Minister, and not by other people. I have them here in the office; if you want, I'll show them to you. What do you say to this?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u183	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u184	I'm done, President. Where's the asylum post on the fence? Where can people apply for asylum, Minister? Could you tell me? Because there is no way to apply for asylum in the Melilla fence and this is within the Spanish asylum law. Can you think of any place? Do you intend to talk to Morocco - as you say Morocco is doing so well - so that, when the person is in the fence, the door will be opened so that he can apply for asylum on Spanish territory? By the way, the fence is Spanish territory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u185	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u186	Do you intend to end the use of firearms against the civilian population, Mr. Grande-Marlaska? Do you intend to be transparent in your ministry, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, and to provide mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring police action? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which now has the reply, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u188	Good morning, Minister. Good morning. You appear today not out of your own will, but because some parliamentary groups have asked for your appearance - it is a small shade - which I find regrettable, since the issue before us is the violation of human rights. In addition, you appear three months after events that, in this particular case, we do not know very well whether they occurred in Moroccan territory or in Spanish territory, we will see. We therefore wonder whether this is the importance that you attach to it. Is this the respect that the victims deserve? Is this the assumption of responsibilities of the Government of Spain? When your appearance ends, Minister, will you say mission accomplished, as your president said? I was hoping that today you would clarify to us what the President of your Government was referring to with the successful mission expression. What was the mission and what was the success? Was it because people had been forcibly prevented from entering, because rights had been violated, because of the hot returns made, or because, despite having died, injured and overcrowded people in a yard, they had not managed to jump the fence? From my point of view, you haven't solved these questions. I was also hoping that you would answer me today to the battery of written questions that Junts per Catalunya registered three months ago asking for explanations, but neither have you. In our case, the questions have not been informed. In June we received images and the massacre was present in the media several days, but, unfortunately, it is not such an exceptional event. That we don't see it doesn't mean it doesn't happen, and it doesn't matter how many people we're talking about. Inhuman and degrading treatment is not tolerable to anyone, with only one human life is sufficient. Human rights violations are always unacceptable from our point of view, and it does not matter if this is done - I said earlier - on Spanish territory or on Moroccan territory. I will not discuss this issue, a spokesman has just mentioned it, and I suppose some other spokesman will, too, but the press and the doctrine question the territory in which it was carried out. I agree with the questions you have raised in this regard, although I note that you have been detailing actions to try to delineate the territories. The people who, like last June, tried to enter Spain using the fence, did not do so of their own free will and you know it. They are forced to do so because they have no expectations of life or a better future in their countries and because there are no mechanisms in the laws of aliens that they can access through a work permit. Do you believe, Minister, that risking life directly or through mafias is a joyful choice taken in an easy way? [[The lady]] Whoever makes this decision to risk his own life does so at a time when he is really very desperate. All the actions that we have seen, in Spanish or Moroccan territory, and others that happen, give me a doubt: what is the price to pay, if I am allowed the expression? In exchange for the fact that the security forces and bodies of a country that is considered - I do not say that it is - a full democracy, are in a coordinated manner violating human rights with the security forces and bodies of another country? Can't borders be controlled in another way? Would it not also have been a well-resolved operation, as they have said, to reject these people without inflicting inhuman and degrading treatment on them? You have justified the use of force for security reasons. Let me remind you that this is an argument that the former director of Frontex also mentioned and, in the end, this director had to resign. This brings me to another question: who is most vulnerable? The migrant or the border guard? You said in your presentation that there was a proportionate and timely use of the anti-disturbing material. Faced with sticks, stones and other utensils? I repeat the question because I do not see the ratio: who is most vulnerable? You are assuming as necessary a practice of human rights violations because of border control and against migrants, but in reality it is nothing more than a consolidation of illegality. The outsourcing of borders between Spain and the European Union cannot be a means of legitimizing human rights violations by a State or by a third State. As you are well aware, Minister, international law requires specific standards of respect for human rights both in border control and in expulsion, in detention or in the return of such persons. For example, one of the obligations arising from the European Convention is the responsibility to analyse the consequences of the expulsion of a person to a third country. Was it assessed, before returning them, whether they were persons claiming international protection? Was it assessed whether Morocco was a safe country for each individual? You said that these obligations were fulfilled. Honestly, I don't see how that was possible. The European Court also prohibits hot returns and the exceptional regime, which is provided for in the tenth additional provision of the Aliens Act, which has also been questioned, and which is very clear, with a point 1. and a point 2.; what happens is that I do not see that the two attitudes together are compatible, and the doctrine has also questioned the incompatibility of both. If Spain is not going to meet international standards, why is it still part of these treaties? We also see how public spending on migration control increases - you know this very well because it depends on your ministry - but it also increases the number of dead people trying to reach Spain and does not decrease the number of irregular entries. Perhaps your policy is not the best practice to follow because it does not achieve the expected results, unless, of course, the result you want is to favour industry or the business opportunity that revolves around migration control. For example, the Plan to Modernize the Valley of the Autonomous Cities. Is that an example? We've got a lot more. I remind you, if I may, that it is true that there are irregular entries of people on the southern border, but most of the irregular migration occurred after entering Spain by airports and the tourist visa expires. You mentioned - and I conclude, Madam President - that part of the assailants have had a judicial process. Look, I give these trials the same credibility as the Civil Guard's reports or the Supreme Court's judicial process. A farce. And it has also announced an increase in security forces and bodies in their replacement rate. I would recommend to a progressive government that these resources be invested in health personnel or R & D+i personnel. We expected answers and clarifications in his late and forced appearance, but unfortunately it has not been so.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u189	You have to finish, Mrs. Illamola.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u190	I'm on my way. Doubts and shadows remain and, in terms of human rights violations, I find it inappropriate for a country that respects the rule of law. It will perhaps, unfortunately, be further proof that Spain is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u191	For the same group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u192	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that the reality of the facts that we are dealing with makes looking for the average term in the balance sheet or in the valuation of the appearance is undoubtedly complicated, although I think it may be, perhaps, the fairest also. The truth is that - it has been pointed out here - emigration is a polyhedral reality, that border control is the responsibility of the European Union - although it is true that Spain has a relevant role, a leading role in this border control - and that, ultimately, the protection and defence of human rights is the responsibility of everyone, whether here or elsewhere in the territory. Therefore, putting on one side of the corresponding balance that complicated reality does not take away that we have to put on the other side the reality of what we saw: an shocking and tragic reality - it has been pointed out here - with deaths, with injuries, with a police act that we can label not only disabled, but even shameful. Therefore, we also need to put these images on the balance of the complexity of the matter. Whether it was known or not is something that has also been pointed out here before. It is just as serious if we knew and did not act on a preventive basis as if we did not know what would happen and, therefore, there was no control, information or prevention in this area. It is therefore also relevant to know what information was available not with regard to the actual facts, but before the event of those facts. And, without a doubt - and we have to put it seriously - the President of the Government's statements were very unfortunate, and it is also unfortunate, I think, that this debate is now, in September, about events that have taken place so long ago. Undoubtedly, the magnitude of the deaths, of the violation of human rights, of the wounded, of the police action would have required that these explanations have occurred before. In the light, then, of what we have in attendance and interventions, I sincerely believe that this is an unresolved and recurrent problem, in which, over the years, there may be more or less intensity and, therefore, more complex situations, such as those which are now being held accountable, or situations which, because they are not so showy or because they do not capture the news of the press, continue to happen, but with less intensity. Denying the reality of these facts would be absurd, so it has justification that today is analyzed, that today explanations are given, that data are given, but all this data, dates, information, have undoubtedly an important element of opposition: images. You know that saying says that an image is worth more than a thousand words, and these images cannot be ignored at any time to know - as I said before - that, completely condemning and regretting the deaths and the wounded, there is also a totally disproportionate police action, which is already incumbent on us from the point of view of being maximum guarantors of respect for human rights. The content of the laws and treaties that Spain signs is to be complied with. To be honest, I believe so, and the clumsy reality entails, without a doubt, getting involved and practicing with the example in dealing with these situations. Practice by example in order to ensure that these actions are not repeated again. Let me make a final point of the speech made by Mr Santiago, with the kind tone he has made in relation to the minister - surprising -. The saturation, the deficiencies that there may be in the consulates in the processing of the asylums, the impossibility of the previous appointment - I invite you to try to manage a previous appointment in the Consulate of Morocco, an authentic adventure from which it is impossible to exit successfully -, which also does not make any sense that still today has to be asked, do not in any case justify, Your Honor, the assault. I therefore believe that it is everyone's responsibility to solve these problems, but not to make them an excuse to justify what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the same group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the massacre of, as far as we know, a minimum of 37 people, but there could be many more, in the Melilla-Nador fence, last 24 June was a brutal violation of human rights, perpetrated by Morocco but with the acquiescence, collaboration and applause of the Spanish Government. It's hard to say, but everything indicates it was. There's no doubt about the applause. Immediately the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, congratulated the Moroccan Gendarmerie on a well-solved work. These are words that will undoubtedly remain for the history of infamy, because that well-solved work consisted in the murder of, as we say, at least 37 people. Brutal murder, people beaten, stoned or left to die for hours, piled up and finally buried without identification and without autopsy to hide the crime; people subsequently tried and convicted, in addition to about 60 missing. One cannot imagine a greater lack of empathy and human sensitivity - let us not talk about political ethics and respect for human rights - in the face of the murder of people who were only looking for an opportunity to gain access to a better life fleeing from hunger, wars and political persecution; fleeing, in short, the consequences generated in many African countries, first, by European colonialism and, later, in many cases, until now, by neo-colonial policies, also by European countries. Collaboration is also evident. You denied it in this House on June 29, but there are recorded images showing that Moroccan gendarmes crossed the fence and entered Melilla to beat and return hot people who had already crossed and who in that performance counted on the complicity of the Civil Guard. It is a very serious fact that they will still have to explain. Acquiescence is more questionable. Actually, it's a lot more than that. With this massacre, we have brutally checked Pedro Sánchez's turn over the Sahara: in exchange for recognizing Morocco's annexation of the territory of the Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic - turning its back on international legality and abandoning the Saharawi people in their just and legitimate struggle for self-determination - the Spanish Government outsources repression, violence and death in the fences. It is unworthy and infamous, and it puts us before the evidence that in reality the great difference between the migration policy of the People's Party and that of the PSOE lies here. The PP had the Civil Guard shot, as happened in El Tarajal in 2014, with 15 people dead, and the PSOE chose to outsource repression so that it was the Moroccan Gendarmerie that shot, beat or stoned immigrants and potential asylum seekers. It is equally indignant and does not relieve this Government of responsibility; quite the contrary. That is why it has to be taken up and rectified, it is what the BNG demands, but, more importantly, much more, it is what requires decency and human dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Good morning, Minister. I want my first words to be of sympathy and support to all the families of all the victims of this very serious event that took place in Melilla in June and, of course, not only for the victims but also for other victims, who are all members - men and women - of the security forces and bodies of the State, both Spanish and the Moroccan Gendarmerie, where the wounded were very numerous and deserve our full consideration as well. Minister Marlaska, you are like Russian propaganda since February this year, you lie always and in everything. He already looks like Mr Peskov, the spokesman for the Russian Government, who has again put another milonga this morning. They're very similar to the ones Peskov does. Because, Minister, you appear here as a substitute for the one on which you were actually asked to appear in the last Permanent Chamber, which was Mr Sánchez, President of the Government. He's the one who was asked to appear to talk about this. So this is a vicarious appearance, Minister, as vicar is your role today. President Sánchez needs to hide again in front of this House, and who does he appeal to? For to you, Mr Marlaska, who has for a long time been demonstrating the docility necessary to always serve the interests not of the State, not of the Spanish nation, not of the officials of your department, but only of President Sánchez himself, who, cowardly, is parading again after you to win another day of sleep on the mattress of the Moncloa. Of course, if we are talking about papers, Mr Marlaska - rather than papers - we should confirm that you are the most appropriate person in this government to carry out this task. You take, Mr. Marlaska, the whole legislature and part of the previous one making a real piece of paper at the head of the Interior Department. We are running out of time in this intervention if we simply list all the times you have made decisions based solely on Mr Sánchez's survival: the cases of Colonel Corbí, Pérez de los Cobos, the removal of Mr Azon, Fernando Santafé, Laurentino Ceña, even Mrs Botella - who should be here today -, the appointment of Mrs Gámez without consulting the Defence, the Civil Guard of Navarra, the minors of Ceuta, the Malasaña case, the attacks on citizens in the march of the Pride - which we are also here a few present -, the rapprochement of ETA prisoners, the transfer of prisons to the Vasco Government, their indifference to the victims, their general secretary of prisons, Mr Ortiz, who has proved to be a cancer for the institution, their ill-treatment to the Civil Guard - the last, the dismantling of the South Drug Coordination Agency, with an exceptional balance in their work with thousands of detainees -. Anyway, we could throw ourselves out like that for hours and that's not the point. The balance of your management, Mr Marlaska, is really disastrous and your assessment as a minister is also among the four worst in the whole government, only Mrs Belarra and Mr Montero and Mr Garzón outnumber you; CIS data, Mr Marlaska, I do not think you care very much for Mr Tezanos. Finally, how far is that first appearance, which certainly many in this House remember, in the Committee on the Interior in 2018, when you told us to all the Members present there that you defined yourself as 'a technician in a socialist government', intercommissioned. Although a few weeks later you already spelled that definition, you were already considered-abro quotes - 'a socialist politician grateful that the PSOE has adopted him'. I think that you were wrong there, Mr Marlaska, you must have said that you were grateful that Mr Sánchez had adopted you, not the Socialist Party; otherwise you do not understand your continuity in this government. But, no doubt, of all the pieces he has played in this government, today's is the saddest one I've ever seen him play. He has become a technician to an adopted politician - his words, minister - and today he is already in danger. You are a reminder of that Lazarillo de Tormes, a resourceless character who used all kinds of bullshit to survive. Because you have already used all the bullshit to avoid appearing before this House, ignore the role of the Legislature, because no one controls you - except Sanchez, of course -. It despises the separation of powers from the State and, when it has no choice but to go to this institution, it always does so at its own request, as you say, exclusively to speak, in addition, of what you want. You didn't want to talk about Melilla's events last June 24. That day, as has already been explained, more than 2,000 African immigrants attempted to storm the fence. We do not know yet how many dead there have been, and I think this is very uneducating, and hundreds of wounded agents - nor do we know how many have been - both from the Kingdom of Morocco and Spain. Two years ago, the Ministry of the Interior began to replace in the fences of Ceuta and Melilla the concertinas with a structure of bars in semicircle in order to eliminate the blades and cutting elements of the fence, but at the same time - and I open quotes again - 'guarantee the security of the border and create fences more difficult to jump' - his words, minister -. This new metal crown began to be installed in the fence areas most vulnerable to assaults and this work was budgeted at 18 million euros, jointly for the two autonomous cities. They started two years ago and we don't know the reality of how they are right now. You announced that the replacement of these concertinas was part of a larger and more ambitious plan, the Plan - you will remember - of strengthening and modernization of the terrestrial border system in Ceuta and Melilla, which also included television circuits, facial recognition, elevation of the height of the fence. And this was going to cost us all the Spanish 32 million euros. The state of these investments, the timetable for the completion of these investments or whether further investment is needed after what has happened, this Government does not want to talk. Neither the need to increase the personal means and self-protection systems of our police officers nor of the Civil Guard, nor the need to develop joint protocols with members of the Armed Forces, which in situations of absolute urgency or emergency - as was the case in June - were not even alerted. If we ask for the presence of our European partners through Frontex for what we are going to talk about, this government does not want to know anything. And despite these efforts, the massive assaults on the fences in our border cities continue to be more violent. The avalanche of June took place next to the border crossing of the Chinese neighbourhood - as has already been explained - of an area determined colloquially, minister, the coladero, which will be for something. There is no effective protection in the 3.3 km of fence around that point. This turn, moreover, takes place two months after the President of the Government unilaterally changes our position on Western Sahara, which is supposed to cause some normalization of relations with Morocco, but which makes the relationship with Algeria more unpredictable with other consequences. So much so that since then there has been a relaxation of the Algerian borders with Morocco, in order to put political pressure on Spain. Much of the immigration that traditionally went to Egypt, Libya or Tunisia, to Italy or Greece, today up to our borders. In any case, of everything that happened last June, the most dramatic is the massive loss of the lives of all those people who desperately seek the way to escape misery, war or danger. This tragic situation should oblige the public authorities, and I believe that it obliges all public servants, to make the greatest possible effort to implement in our country an effective migration policy that welcomes foreigners within the framework of a human and solidarity migration system that puts the dignity of people as a central axis and that, at the same time, is responsible, effective and orderly to ensure social cohesion and coexistence, and to prevent uncontrolled migration flows from ending up feeding populism and xenophobia, Minister. A subject as relevant as that of migration is only given some relevance in the public debate when dramas like the one we are analysing occur. For this reason, the Government, which is busy dealing with an inflationary economic crisis for which they do not find a solution, does not take any measures that it will decisively bet to ensure the advancement of laws that deal with this complex debate. But, ladies and gentlemen, the problems and advantages of immigration will not disappear because of our mere inaction, but their worst consequences will be aggravated. We are, therefore, not faced with an unfortunate event, no; what happened in June in Melilla is a systemic failure of the Sánchez Administration as a whole. Mr Marlaska and his department are but one more link in the chain of failures that usually cause great misfortunes; a systemic failure, minister, a multi-organic failure because it is the global policy in the face of the phenomenon of irregular migration that has failed. Or perhaps we should say the absence of policy, because the ministries of Foreign Affairs, Social Rights, Labour and Social Economy, Social Security and Migration, and the Ministry of the Interior have failed here, of course, but the President of the Government has failed altogether, he is responsible for coordinating the Government, he designs the global strategies. You believed that by putting social in the names of the ministries the matter was already solved. The failure of June in Melilla is the failure of Sánchez and his entire government. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, many of the ministries involved fall under their direct responsibility. Do not come now to overdo it, as they always do when a misfortune occurs, such as last June, in Melilla, which are no longer in opposition to Mr Rajoy's government. You're just as responsible for what happened as Mr. Sánchez or Marlaska. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Minister. Minister, we are dealing with the tragedy with the most deaths on the land border between the European Union and Morocco, on the border between Spain and Morocco, only comparable to the one that happened in 2014, when 15 immigrants drowned while trying to swim across the border fence in Ceuta. We are now again dealing with another bloody episode on the southern border of Spain, the most bloody in history in relation to migrants, and not only with the overwhelming number of migrants killed and wounded, but also with the way in which they have occurred, known for the testimony of images and witnesses or/or for the inhumane form of detention of migrants, which has caused shock and concern for the violent and degrading treatment given, which has motivated the revulsion of the UN Secretary-General, the President of the African Union and the legion of humanitarian organizations, and also protests in much of the Spanish cities motivated by the zero sensitivity and empathy of the President of the Government, Sánchez, shown by the tragedy of the events and the brutality of the images when he congratulated the Moroccan security forces on the extraordinary work carried out in coordination with the Spanish security forces and bodies, which he considered, as has already been said, well resolved by the two security forces thanks to good relations with Morocco. Because, ladies and gentlemen, President Sánchez's reference to good relations with Morocco is another decisive circumstance, in our view, in the tragedy on which we are discussing whether we compare Morocco's conduct on the southern border before and after the Spanish Government suddenly abandoned its historical responsibility with the Saharan people last March in its right to decide its future in a referendum of self-determination, giving the approval to the Moroccan autonomy plan on Western Sahara, which has meant the renewal of diplomatic relations between Spain and Morocco after a year of hostilities and after months of tension after the Spanish Government welcomed Brahim Gali, leader of the Frente Polisario, in 2021 for his treatment of coronavirus. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, before this turn of Moncloa, let us remember the consented and encouraged by the Moroccan Government to enter minors in Ceuta and the constant border tensions over the inaction of the Moroccan security forces, in the face of the current display of muscle in their border management, in which it accuses of this tragedy, like President Sánchez, the mafias and the legitimate violence of response, adding, if anything, Algeria, to whom it accuses of opening its western border to leaders who are brave and trained with the profile of militias experienced in conflict zones. Minister, you asked why in this tragedy of Nador you continue to speak, as an efficient cause of this, of the mafias, of their actions in relation to all the events that have been able to occur in order to produce ultimately the tragedy that we are talking about. Minister, they do not hide themselves in the mafias who traffic with people; they certainly do exist, and in the life history of migrants involved in these events at some point in their safe migratory journey, who are or were present, but the mafias who traffic with migrants are not the most relevant fact for the damage produced; the damage, in our opinion, has been caused by the dehumanized action of the security forces during the prevention of the jump, in their neutralization, during the detention of the detainees, in the treatment of the wounded and the deceased by not practicing autopsies and for not having carried out a credible investigation into the facts. The Mafias, Minister, did not organize the jump to the fence, as President Sánchez declared to La Vanguardia without any evidence either before or now. The cause of what happened in Nador-Melilla is due to the failure of migration policies, based almost exclusively on security, with a diminishing dimension in relation to the dignity of people, the humanitarian principles, uniquely of the most disadvantaged, and the fulfilment of international commitments in relation to asylum or shelter. Because, Minister, and with regard to the latter aspect - migration, refuge or asylum - it cannot be ignored that the way in which the facts and security forces and forces developed in Nador-Melilla prevented the determination of whether the migrants in the incident as they passed to Spain were treatment creditors as refugees, in view of the fact that - as has already been said by some spokespersons - about 80% came from conflict zones such as Sudan, South Sudan, Mali, Yemen, Nigeria, Senegal, etc. They were prevented from entering, returned hotly by both the security forces and bodies of Spain and by the Moroccans, who entered Spain, according to the videos, and without legal and secure means to demand refuge or asylum. Minister, it was the neighbors of the Moroccan area where the hundreds of migrants were concentrated days ago, just a few metres from Melilla, who provided help and solidarity, not the mafias, and it was the Moroccan security forces who harassed them with arrests, raids and forced displacements. Minister, he asked: Did Morocco communicate these facts? And if it was done, what measures did they take? If it seemed like an expected attack, what facts were realized? Minister, according to the detailed report of Caminando Fronteras, the jump to the fence arose spontaneously, after police raids in previous days and to flee them; and also, as the Moroccan Association of Human Rights pointed out, although the mafias are always there, the last action arose spontaneously after police raids and destruction of migrant camps. Minister, he asked, "Do you have any information that the facts have happened in any other way?" Did you take action, as you claimed, on a previous basis? Minister, have you returned hot from the Spanish soil? Did Moroccan gendarmes enter Spain to arrest migrants? The images seem to show that. Minister, have you been informed from Morocco how many deaths have occurred and the reasons? There has been talk of falls, crushes, coups by security forces and bodies, gunshot wounds and tear gas suffocation. Have the causes of each death been determined by autopsy? What time? Have explanations been requested from Morocco? Minister, have you given explanations from Morocco, or have you asked them, about the violent and degrading treatment of migrants detained before their transfer? The images, which have caused outrage at the international level, show a lack of help and passivity, including police attacks on migrants stacked on the ground one on top of the other. Many seem wounded, bleeding; others show no signs of movement; others, assaulted by agents, who beat some of the migrants, who do not offer resistance. Minister, I ask you: have you asked for details of how and why you came to this point? Minister, of everything that has happened, he asked: what investigations have you carried out? What are the results? What lessons of improvement have they drawn? What are they going to implement, both from security protocols and from migration policies? Minister, lastly, in this first round, he asked him: the architecture of the fence to help with the facts? Can they be modified so that they do not repeat or happen again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u200	I left it on. Thank you very much, Madam President. Proportional and timely? Proportionable and timely, Mr. Great-Marlaska? In the face of the greatest tragedy on a Spanish border, didn't you think of a better phrase? I believe that in the face of such serious events that took place on that border, we cannot come to this House to justify what happened. No way. You have focused on violent images - highlighting a lot - of migrant people throwing objects at security forces and bodies. He has never named the terrible images of police beating agonizing people on the ground, wounded people. Doesn't that mean anything to you? Have you seen the images? Have you seen them, Minister? I think so. Then try to be Swedish. He tells us about the tragedy of Nador, rescheduling over and over again. Let's see, these facts, if there has not been an international treaty of transfer of territory to Morocco - which I know has not happened - occurred in Spanish territory, a territory under Spanish jurisdiction, and they have nothing more than to go to the page of the cadastre or to the page of the IGN to see where the limits of Spain are. Moreover, all the infrastructure of the border of BarrioChino - all of it, built by Spain in 1988 and subsequently modified - was realized and paid for by Spain, and is Spanish territory. What you have said that where the most serious events occurred is a land of no one - it seems the title of a film, of a western, No man's land - does not exist in international law, is Spanish territory. Clear up here today. The tragedy was in Melilla or, at least, between Melilla and Nador. The police performance was a joint one. You - the Government - have acknowledged that coordination. Similarly, Moroccan agents were allowed to enter behind the inner fence. He missed me when he denied it in June, but the videos are clear, they're obvious. Minister, an investigation has been opened by the Public Prosecutor's Office and also by the Ombudsman. You said that in the General Courts no, that in the General Courts it was not possible to do so because, unfortunately, their political formation has been denied, something which by the same criteria requested in the face of the tragedy of Tarajal - and which we saw as common sense - and at this point it seems that it does not want to be done. Minister, to justify such terrible facts, at least I am shocked. I am not surprised that it comes three months later and in twenty minutes the whole question comes up, but that it justifies what happened with at least twenty-three people dead? I think that's the most serious fact. The fact that people are injured is very serious, I do not deny it; that there is damaged material, it is also important, but it is that we are talking about people who lost their lives on the Spanish border. Minister, I asked him in June and he didn't answer me, he denied me the biggest: why did Moroccan agents enter Melilla territory? Who authorized it? What was your job? What did they do in Spanish territory and why did they enter? Can you explain it to us? Then, we saw that the police performance was joint. I myself, other MPs and journalists approached the area of Barrio Chino on the Spanish side and weeks later I was plagued with anti-disturbing material propelling caps, rubber balls, gas and smoke boats. Could you tell us in your next intervention how much material was used by Spanish agents? Because there was a campal battle there. And when you tell us timely and proportionate... It is one of the coincident stories, both in the people admitted to CETI - I had the opportunity to come - and in the stories we have read in the press of people who have been interviewed by journalists in Morocco who were in that jump: a cloud of gas was generated in that courtyard, in that territory of nobody you said, that prevented the breathing of those people, and many of them fell to the ground and there was an avalanche. I mean, in Spanish territory. Have you investigated what happened? What's more, they've also asked: Why didn't they open the door? You have cameras in the direction of that area and there were Spanish agents - civilian guards, in this case - across the door. Why didn't they open it? It is true that - unjustly, I believe - the Moroccan National Human Rights Council has put that hypothesis directly on the table as the greatest reason for the misfortune, the tragedy, and has pointed out to you, that something will have to say, at least. I think it should have prevailed, if it was seen, if you saw it - that I think it was, because there were the cameras there, there was the drone, there was the helicopter, there were the agents -, the fact of opening the door. And, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, the images. Why haven't the images been made public? I know it's not right to compare, but, in the face of the second biggest tragedy that has occurred on a Spanish border, a week later the Ministry of the Interior on its website made several of the videos public. Not all, right, not all the time, but four of those cameras - from 37, if I recall correctly - were made available to the citizens, to the representatives of this House and to the journalists to see what had happened, and they were significant. Moreover, we discovered that at that time the Minister of the Interior had not told the whole truth, but had no objection to making the images public. Why don't you make them public? When I was in Melilla, a Civil Guard command pointed out to me that the images were very clear, that what had happened was seen perfectly. If they're so clear, why don't you make them public? I think it would help to determine whether there was any responsibility on the part of the Spanish authorities or not, but I think that, in an exercise of transparency, it would help. In addition, most of this House is asking for it. And that it is being investigated does not take away so that they can be made public, as it was not avoided after Tarajal's misfortune. And, Minister, you have begun well, you have begun to tell us the schedule of events, but you have arrived at ten in the morning. I think it is important to know the entire schedule to know whether it was being summarily returned, whether people were being summarily expelled to Morocco after knowing the terrible images that were happening on the other side of the door. I think it is very important to know when and to what point people were returned summarily to Morocco. We have seen an approximate figure, 103 persons who had entered Spanish territory were returned to Morocco. You said that, in any case, vulnerable people are protected. I would like to know if any minors, injured persons or potential asylum seekers were expelled. It has already been said that more than 80 per cent of these people, according to their nationalities, are potential asylum seekers: from Sudan, Chad, South Sudan... Did any of them get kicked out? Do you have the certainty that it wasn't made like this? Because otherwise, vulnerable people would have been expelled. And look, it's no secret that the focus has been on the schedule, because it's important to know if you offered medical and emergency assistance to Morocco after knowing the facts that were taking place. We have seen images showing that in the afternoon there were still wounded people on the other side of the fence unattended. Did you offer that collaboration, that medical aid to Morocco? Do you know what the problem is? That after the Tarajal tragedy asylum posts were opened at the border, both in Ceuta and Melilla, in February 2014. But do you know what the problem is? That sub-Saharan people can't access them. I would like to know whether you are going to facilitate, through that relationship so good that you have with your Moroccan partner, that anyone who is an asylum seeker can do so, who can cross the fence without having to jump it or have to pay to networks or mafias, because you point it out a lot, but precisely the people who jump or try to transgress the fence are those who do not pay to mafias. That has no cost, what does have a cost is to arrive by foot, in hidden vehicles or in boats. By the way, the 1600 Sudanese who didn't access Melilla that day, where are they? Do you think they're not going to try to get to Spain again on other routes? That is why it is important to seek legal and secure avenues, Minister. I hope that in your appearance you will now be a little more transparent and answer the questions we have asked you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u202	Thank you, President. Minister, I would like to begin this intervention by setting a framework with a little more depth, because it is always used when there are massacres or when similar issues happen at the border for the right and the right to put on the table ideas relating to the persecution of migration. The current migration policy is not a meteorological phenomenon, it is the product of the European migration management policy of Schengen, which was signed in 1985 and applied for a decade until 1995. This policy establishes that there is an area of freedom, security and justice - which they call it - within the territory of the Union and that external borders are outsourced and strengthened - in this case, we are talking today about the southern border - and there are also mechanisms of internal borders, detention centres for foreigners and foreigners, raids and deportations, practices that have been denounced on several occasions by human rights bodies of the European Administration. I say this because migration policy does not have to be based on the persecution of migrants, it could be based on respect for human rights and on respect for free movement; migration policy could be based on opening up borders and ending the persecution of migration. This is our proposal. I move on to what concerns us today, to the facts of June 24th. Almost everything has been said, but I will try to highlight what I think is most important. The first question - as has already been said - is that we do not know how many dead there are; official figures speak of some twenty-four and non-governmental organizations of more or less seventy people. The first question is that you have referred to the facts of Nador. The facts happened in Melilla. The Member of Parliament for Bildu has just made an in-depth statement on the subject and, indeed, the United Nations understands this when the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers recommends that Spain and Morocco should not use disproportionate use of force in border action; different from the perspective you have put us today, Minister, who has repeated several times that there has been a proportional use of force. In fact, El País today, in an article, wonders if it is true that this only happened in Moroccan territory. The second question is that for us they are not dead people, they are murders, with all the gravity that this word has. Why? Because they are the product of the European framework for managing migration, because they are part of the public policies of the European Union that Spain develops because it keeps the southern border. Some authors already speak of necropolitics, the policy of death for some and for some, must also be made clear. Frantz Fanon spoke of the line between being and non-being, those that can be and those bodies that are not and, therefore, can be persecuted and maimed. This is what happened on the southern border and it's not the first time it's happened. In fact, in 2022 we already carried 978 dead people. There are some non-governmental organizations that warn that it has been the year with the most lifeless bodies on the southern border. And the murders are responsible, but I find it unworthy that the People's Party should come up here to throw the deaths on the face of the PSOE, because since the year 2000, which passed the Aliens Act in your beloved Kingdom of Spain, you have ruled and you have also been responsible for deaths and murders on the southern border. And what I find even more unworthy is that Mrs de VOX, Mrs López Álvarez, comes up here to mourn the deaths and talk about non-governmental organizations. Get the NGOs out of your mouth! And I ask you, how many lives is your homeland worth, Ms. López Álvarez? Third question. These murders, these deaths are responsible, and your Government is responsible for this, the pact with Morocco is also responsible for this, and the fact that you outsource the border to Morocco but do not control human rights standards also makes you responsible for what happened. In fact, yesterday a group of MEPs were unable to enter Morocco. He was denounced by Miguel Urbán, the MEP who made a video on Twitter because he was not allowed to enter Morocco when three MEPs were going to see the open, public part of the trial in Morocco. They were therefore not only outsourced to them, they were not only responsible for what the Kingdom of Morocco was doing, but also responsible for the lack of human rights control. And you have also spoken about the investigation of the Attorney General's Office and the Ombudsman. It seems that there is a report from the state security forces and bodies sent to the Attorney General's Office so that he can develop his report. You have already asked many questions, but I would like to highlight four in particular, to see if you can advance the conclusions of this report. Why didn't you open the doors before? With all the technology they have at the border, why didn't they open the doors? How much are the borders worth, Mr Marlaska, how many lives are the borders worth? What about the gas? Many of the witnesses of what happened that day talk about the gas, which generated a situation in which many people choked and, therefore, was an important part of the explanation of the deaths. The gas who threw it? The Spanish police dropped it, it seems to be. What about medical assistance? Many witnesses say that they were not given medical assistance when they went to formal Spanish territory - I say formal Spanish because it has become clear that the aggressions were also in Spanish territory -. Why didn't you give them medical assistance, Minister? And why were they hotly returned with the situation of extreme violence that existed? This contradicts your speech here of proportionality, respect for fundamental rights and a fair approach to borders. You have to assume your responsibilities, Minister. You have to recognize what happened, and today you have a chance to do it. They have to repair the families of the murdered people, they have to judge the political and operational leaders who were accomplices to all these deaths, and there must be guarantees of non-repetition. Go to Europe and plan, that you are the backyard of the European Union and dirty work costs you many lives. The democratic standards are seen with the treatment given to the weakest, Mr Marlaska, and the images that came to us a few months ago from Melilla seem to be not very democratic. It has been said here that this is a question of humanity, but it is also an economic question. Racial capitalism, they call it. There are countries where people have free mobility and there are countries that are called to be producers of the North and their people are called to be cheap labor that can even die in the attempt. Also, and I finish, it is a democratic issue. Any violation of the rights of the weakest of the citizens of this State is a problem for the rest. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u204	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister, for being in Congress today to explain the events that took place on 24 June in Nador. First, and on behalf of my group, I wanted to transfer condolences and solidarity to the families of the deceased in the Moroccan city of Nador. [[Applauds]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a tragedy in which we should all be together to prevent it from happening again. A tragedy that is the end point of a journey that for many began thousands of kilometers before, a journey from which he fled to a better future, fleeing from hunger, fleeing from war or fleeing from terrorism. But also, ladies and gentlemen, today we want to transfer our support to the injured agents while they were doing their job. [[Applauds]] A very complicated task, ladies and gentlemen, that of the members of the state security forces and bodies protecting our borders in Ceuta and Melilla, but also, ladies and gentlemen, and I think it is fair to recognize it, because it is their day-to-day task of helping and accompanying thousands of migrants who have come to our country for years. Thank you for the daily work done by the Civil Guard, the National Police, the municipal police and the Maritime Rescue. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to clarify some facts that have occurred in the city of Nador. I believe that the Minister has given detailed explanations, but, ladies and gentlemen of the right, discussing migration policy with you is very difficult. It is very difficult because you have never exercised a migration policy in this country. You have never developed a migration model, and if we have what we have today, ladies and gentlemen, it has been thanks to these three years of government of Pedro Sánchez in which we already have a migration model, we already have a plan, we already have measures, we have policies and we have enough funding, ladies and gentlemen, to be able to carry out effective work in the fight against the mafia, but also to reduce irregular immigration in our country. [[Applauds]] I am drawn to the attention that today we compare here two facts that apparently have to do with it, but that actually have nothing to do with it, and it is Tarajal's fact with the fact that happened in Nador. They have nothing to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Iñarritu, I believe you are aware that the People's Party manipulated the images. I think you are aware that in forty-eight hours your version of what happened that day was changed nine times, and I believe that, in addition, Mr Iñarritu, you too are aware that at that time the People's Party was engaged in threatening NGOs and civil society with the Prosecutor's Office, which is not happening today, Mr Iñarritu. The D.A.'s doing is investigating what happened, which is the question we should all ask ourselves here: what happened? Is he investigating himself or not? And yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is being investigated, it is being investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ombudsman, because today the Public Prosecutor's Office does what it does is to investigate, what it does is to clarify the facts. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I said that you did nothing in immigration policy. They find the Socialist Party that we never do anything. Please check the data. Mrs Vázquez, you said you were going to talk about data and node stories, and you did the usual thing, talking about false data and making a story that has nothing to do with reality. Mr. Citizen Spokesman, may you speak of multi-organic failure, it seems to me that, given the situation in which your party is found, to speak of this kind of failure... And above all, a more important question: you supported the budgets and supported all the immigration policy that the People's Party made, and at that time, Mr Gutierrez, everything was perfect, there was no problem. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that we can qualify this fact in many ways, but I will try to do the opposite exercise, which is to qualify what was not, and what was not a peaceful act of entry into our country. From there, State security forces and bodies act according to their competencies, the established legal framework and international agreements. I remind you that fifty-five officers were wounded. And it is not that I am concerned today, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, that the right-wing position of trying to criminalize immigration or to say that all immigrants are evil by nature, what worries me is that some left-wing forces today introduce into the debate and let slip some elements of populism that I believe do not help in any way the work of this government or a state policy such as migration, and put on the table people who have died in circumstances that must be clarified and put on the table dead I think is never the best way to do politics and it is not the way we should go if we really want to set in motion a new migration model in our country. When you speak also, gentlemen of the right, of defending the forces and security forces of the State, I could give you data, Mrs Vázquez, but I think you know them well enough. We have provided 12,400 new places in the Civil Guard, we have increased the salary of our police and civilian guards by 21,5%, they have better means, there is an infrastructure plan that is being implemented worth 800 million euros. It's just that when you come here, gentlemen of the right, to say that there are no investments in the Melilla fence... Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in their years of government they invested 7 million euros in infrastructure in Melilla and this government, in three years, has invested 17 million euros. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, immigration - and Mr Legarda said - does not only have to do with a security issue. Immigration is something else. Immigration depends on development cooperation, on us establishing these bilateral and multilateral coordination mechanisms with countries of origin and transit. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what you call your years of government in the field of international development cooperation? The lost years of Spanish cooperation. And you know why? Because in 2018 you invested 2600 million euros in development cooperation and this government, in 2022, has invested 3500 million euros. That, sir, is also trying to end the origin of immigration. [[Applauds]] The same is true of police cooperation, because we are talking here today about the migration phenomenon associated with the security area. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in 2018, in police matters, in police cooperation, they invested 14.5 million euros; in 2022 this government has invested 31.5 million euros more: 46 million more, gentlemen of the People's Party, invests this government. These are the commitments of the Government. But, look, this government has also regained the presence of Spain in international bodies, those bodies which you have stopped attending and in which we have lost our voice and, above all, we have lost strength in delimiting the public policies that have to stop the phenomenon of migration, as the European Union has to stop the phenomenon of migration, and there is Spain, leading in the JHA - in the councils between the European Ministries of the Interior and Justice - what should be the proposal of the common migration policy of the European Union. Today it is already a reality that the European Union considers not only with words but with facts that the southern border of Europe also includes Ceuta and Melilla. With facts and investments, ladies and gentlemen, with facts and investments that have to do with specific plans for police cooperation with the countries of the Sahel, with countries of origin such as the countries of the Horn of Africa, but also, ladies and gentlemen, with policies of cooperation with the Kingdom of Morocco, because we cannot escape that police cooperation with the Kingdom of Morocco is fundamental, and that in that police cooperation, in the new package that the European Commission is negotiating with the Government of Morocco, between 2021 and 2027, mechanisms for monitoring and mechanisms for the protection of human resources will be introduced. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is being done thanks to the leadership of the Spanish Government. Therefore, that account of the Spanish Government's failure to do anything is very easily refuted with data. Ladies and gentlemen, people's lives are above everything else. To seek to provide protection, to generate controlled and safe migration routes, to assist the development of countries of origin and transit, to strengthen police cooperation and to respect our legal framework and international agreements are the task of this Government and is a commitment of the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank your ladies and gentlemen for the contributions they have made in the first of the speeches. We have discussed, as we have seen, various issues and some less related to the issue that motivates my attendance at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies today. I will try to answer your questions fully. Let me, however, first of all point out that it is important to be clear about what we are talking about. In this sense, I always remember - and I am sure that some Member of the Republican Group too - a reflection that Professor Torres Mora made from this very rostrum. You will see, as happens when two mathematicians work together, when two parties - in this case various parliamentary groups and the Government - engage in dialogue with the aim of working on a given situation, it is essential to agree on the words, the terms and the concepts to be used. I say this because any spectator who has followed many of his interventions in this debate might think that the facts we are discussing have happened on national territory; he might think that we are having to regret the loss of human lives on Spanish soil, and he might even think that the group of 1700 people who tried to access our territory was forced to proceed in that way because it had no other. Three falsehoods, ladies and gentlemen, which I believe we should put on their fair terms. You see, the facts I have explained to all of you are the same as the members of the State Security Forces and Bodies, the same as the Moroccan security forces and, most importantly, the same as the members of the group who tried violently to enter Spain last June 24, 2022. These are facts - I have to say - that happened mainly in the territory of another country. In this regard, as soon as possible, at 4:45 a.m., the Moroccan authorities inform the Civil Guard of the mobilization of a group of 1,700 people heading towards the fence. Two hours later, the first clashes began with the group carrying blunt offensive objects, which eventually used homemade explosive devices against Moroccan forces. Just over three hours later, the group managed to reach the security compound in the Chinese Quarter, always in Moroccan territory, where this group of 1700 people used hammers, axes and blunt objects, trying, on the one hand, to force the security forces on the Moroccan side and, on the other, to begin assaulting the State security forces from the roof of the compound. So the first thing we have to make clear is that the facts happen on the national territory of a sovereign country and, in a very tangential way, take place in Spain. That is the difference with other episodes with which some of your ladies and gentlemen - and I will deal with it in the debate, as well as in various speeches - want to equate with what happened on 24 July. As you can imagine - I will say something about it later - I mean the facts, another drama that happened on the beach of Tarajal in previous years. Therefore, those facts have nothing to do with it. If any of you have any doubts, I can refer you to various judicial decisions, including the ruling of the National Court 4751/2008, where in a dispute - and echoing previous resolutions - it refers to how Spain's sovereignty reaches the fence. But if you want to incorporate new territories into our country, into Spain, you can accompany some lord of VOX and put flags in different territories. You are safe, everyone who has said that circumstance, to do so. Allow me that irony. Many of your ladies and gentlemen have also reproached me for referring to concepts - and we have seen it here - as a violent group or to violating our borders, or even - a surprising thing coming from the People's Party, Mrs Vázquez - reference has been made to the insensitivity of the President of the Government. At this point, I would like to make two observations. On the one hand, review my initial speech, review my statements, review those of the government and those of its president, President Sánchez; in all of them you will find that we regret having to see how human lives were lost because of these facts and how we deeply regret it, the president of the government the first. I have no problem repeating it as often as necessary, because I tell you very clearly: not one of you feels more than we do the loss of human lives. Unfortunately, that is the black reality to which the mafias - yes, the mafias, it seems that they have been denied their existence by some intervener - who trade with people. That is why we fight them seriously, because they use the misery and the difficult and tragic situations of many women, men and minors. So let us stop demagogying with sentences out of context when there are dozens of public pronouncements that make it very clear what the Government's position has been and is. [[The Lord]] On the other hand, and in relation to the supposed insensitivity of this Government towards migrant people, when the Minister of the Interior, that is, I, have referred to concepts such as aggression, violence or the presence of blunt objects, homemade artifacts, throwing sticks, stones, etc., you will see, I will be delighted that you tell me how you can explain how about 1,700 organized people try to assault a fence, assaulting agents of the authority, both Spanish and Moroccan. Frankly, I would like to be made clear how I can refer to these events without talking about violence and aggression. Because, look, common sense tells me that when 1700 people try to enter another country by jumping a fence and facing agents of authority that is called violence. And that violent behavior in no way prevents me from seeing or empathizing with the reasons of many of these people for migrating and fleeing from dramas such as war, persecution or poverty. But, as I have told you, our solidarity and our vocation to welcome people in desperate situations can never be translated into condoning violent attacks on our territory, on our borders and, above all, - as I have also said - to our men and women who provide security and protection for them. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the migration policy of this government is based on the conviction that it is necessary to define - as has been recalled - safe regular channels of access to our country. And there are the numerous public policies that develop - as you well know - ministries such as Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, Labour, Interior and also that of Equality. Because we understand that migration, when it is regular and orderly, has positive effects on our society in terms of socio-economic development and well-being. We also understand that when it is irregular it constitutes an element that endangers the human rights of people who, leaving their homes in the hope of finding a better future, cease to be victims of war, persecution or poverty and end up being victims of the mafias who commit one of the most horrendous crimes against humanity, which is trafficking in human beings. And in that respect, trafficking in persons in any form will always be in front of this Government. Therefore, there was neither a massacre in Melilla - as many of you have publicly pointed out - nor the facts were those of people who peacefully sought access to the national territory, nor is there a migration policy based on an exclusively security approach. We have an integral migration policy. It has been made clear - as some spokesman has said - that the Government and the Ministry of the Interior are also late to explain to Congress. I am surprised that accusations are being made precisely about the lack of compliance with parliamentary control. Allow me some data. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Ministry of the Interior has received 27,633 parliamentary initiatives, 25,228 written questions, of which only 1.23% are pending answers and some of them are not due; 17,823 written questions. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you left this government 991 written questions unanswered, 1530 oral questions, 63 substantiated appearances, more than 100 questions and 13 inquiries. [[rumors]] This policy of timely reporting to the Chambers has been a constant feature of the high offices of the Ministry of the Interior in these terms. Having clarified these elements, Mr President, it allows me to reply to some of the questions raised by the various parliamentary groups, to which I will try to answer, as far as possible, individually. Mrs Vázquez, from the People's Parliamentary Group, your speech is still in line; I am sorry. I guess we'll see it soon - if you haven't seen it already - on social networks, that I'm sure you've already uploaded some and, for your parish, it'll be a collection of zascas; I give them for receipts. It is an intervention far removed from those good purposes that Mr Núñez Feijóo asked his parliamentarians, I open quotes: 'I ask you to contribute every day to re-dignify Spanish parliamentarianism. The House is not a social network in which to compete with zascas; it is not a circus'. We're also seeing that Mr. Feijoo, maybe, wasn't what he was saying. And it has been an intervention in which its content, built from four tweets, as always, two press releases, some gossip and three gossips, is removed from the rigour - and I say it to you with all seriousness - that is expected, and more in parliamentary office and, moreover, I believe that it is not today and the subject that we are debating to prove a complete insolvency. One listens to you and is truly surprised. For you, it always takes more than anything, they denounce the abandonment of our forces and state security forces in the autonomous cities; they speak of a lack of means, equipment and infrastructure. Look, even, they say they need more troops. But it is that, of course, you with security happen as with taxes, as we are seeing, saying things in the opposition that contrast with your history in the government. They demand more troops in the opposition and when they govern they make 1800 agents every year from our streets, our peoples and our borders; and yes, ladies and gentlemen, also, as I say to you, from our borders. There is the reduction of 94 agents in the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla between 2011 and 2018; 94 fewer agents; 94 positions that we have recovered and that we have even expanded because we have more than 130 more; that is, we have more agents than in 2011 in Ceuta and Melilla, with a recovery policy, as before. But you are also speaking in opposition that it is necessary to improve equipment and infrastructure, and it is this government - I must reiterate, Mrs Vázquez - that has put into operation the State Security Infrastructure Plan, as Mr Cerrada has reminded us, and that it has modernised the border perimeter. You asked me how it is; the modernization, digitisation and control of the entire border post of both Ceuta and Melilla is already being concluded - it will be concluded by the end of the year. You are talking about the need for more migration policy. Let me also tell you that as we are more concerned about this migration policy in the Ministry of the Interior, we have been able to see that there was an absolutely reckless or negligent policy in the past. We are working, as has been said, on a migration policy from the European Union - because it is the competence of the European Union to do so - and we are working in a decisive way, both in the renewal of the migration pact, of all the normative instruments, as well as in another essential and transcendental element in the migration policy, which was called the external dimension before; that the European Union, at the multilateral and regional level, we have a decisive and main agreement with Africa, with the countries concerned, in order to cooperate and cooperate in development, what we call advancing borders, that African men and women do not have to leave their countries because of lack of economic means, the situation of climate change and any situation that really brings them into the hands of the mafias. We are also working with countries of origin and transit to dismantle the mafia and to save lives, because working with countries of transit and origin such as Algeria, Morocco, Senegal, the Gambia and Mali, what we are doing is preventing human lives from being put at risk by mafia. We really are doing what we are doing is preventing human lives from being put at risk through the mafia. We prevent 40% of irregular outings from taking place on the African continent; in that sense, that is also saving lives. There are countries, such as Algeria or Morocco, that are under immigration pressure and that are really - I will say - absolutely strategic partners, but also reliable partners. I'll report they're suffering from migratory pressure. For example, Morocco has even regularized more than 50,000 migrants in its country. By the way, speaking of insensitivity, I say again that this is not the case and I have said it before. Mrs Vazquez, I think you were already a Member when you said that - I open quotes - 'we had a problem and we solved it'. Do you remember? More than twelve or fourteen years ago, but that was not a phrase taken from context, that was spontaneous sincerity. Anyway, for you everything is wrong, you need more means and that's what I'm telling you. They say one thing in the opposition and do another: less agents from 2011 to 2018 - as Mr Cerrada has recalled - without a salary increase, without giving them material personal means. When I arrived, in the area of the Field of Gibraltar the narco was wide open to the lack of means and aid to the forces and security forces of the State. When we arrived, moments earlier, the most shameful treatment was given to our state security forces and bodies, as happened in September and October 2017, because of the conditions in which our agents were found. Forgiveness has not yet been sought on this matter under the necessary conditions. I believe that they are already being known about what they say when they are in the opposition and what they then do when they are in the government. Mrs López Álvarez, spokesman for the VOX party today, I say this again: yes, Morocco is a loyal partner with whom we have a strategic relationship, and it really is not in the exclusively security but cross-cutting sphere; in all areas - culture, education, industry - we have that relationship. I say again that you always speak criminalizing - today less - migrants as such. Today they had in their telescope the NGOs, the non-governmental organizations. Yesterday in the Senate I already had the opportunity to refer to that extreme a question that also asked me by a senator from his group, from his political party. In this regard, I would like to point out that non-governmental organizations play a decisive role in assisting protection and collaboration in improving conditions, especially for the most vulnerable groups, in support of the General Administration of the State and all administrations, such as the autonomous and local ones. Today you have left the unaccompanied minor, left the migrant, left people of different races or different races and dedicated themselves to NGOs. I hope you'll soon stop putting them on your target, too. You were telling me about CETI, and so on. Migration policy is a government policy, so it is an integral policy, so I am telling you that we participate in different ministries - as I said earlier - depending on the competence of each of them, coordinated with an interministerial migration commission. A technical precision: CETI does not depend on the Ministry of the Interior, CETI depends on the Ministry of Migration, simply so that when it has the data, they are referred to knowing that necessary end. Mr Santiago, I thank the United Nations We can speak because, I say again, migration policy is being worked in the Government by the various ministries in a cross-cutting way and, of course, to establish those mechanisms of legal, orderly and secure migration, especially for migrants themselves. I think we are moving forward, and this is compatible with dealing with irregular migration and mafia, as we are also doing. You know what international protection is and I am grateful that you have focused your intervention on the debate on international protection, we are doing an intense, important work. When we arrived in the Government four years ago we had the Asylum and Refugee Office - by the way, this year the Spanish Asylum and Refugee Office turns thirty - had a endowment of the 1990s. We have substantially increased the number of staff, but we have also increased the technological means by means of new programmes, new information and communication technologies, new ICTs, and our asylum office cooperates and collaborates directly with UNHCR, as we are sure to know. We can improve and we have to improve, of which we are aware, and in that too, of course, as part of the Government we have you. I recognize that concern you have, but I will refer to the four years that we have been working on and what progress has been made on the issue and the issue of international protection as a substantial element of human rights. Mrs Carvalho Dantas, I am not going to compare myself with other countries or your country of origin or anything. I remind you and I repeat that you are lucky - and we too have it - that you are here, it is something reciprocal, that chance of being in a full democracy. Spain is a full democracy. You talk to me about a matter, you talk to me about the outsourcing of security policies, and some of you have told me about migration policy. He answered you and please understand the rest of the speakers that I do the same. That's not true. Each country is sovereign, each country defends its borders. Morocco defends its borders and we have had no action since 1956 in those terms in Morocco. All countries are sovereign. Allow me, because otherwise it seems that we are doing some kind of Eurocentrism, that is, that we continue to impose ourselves, and not. Africa and all the independent countries of Africa obviously have their autonomy, their will; it would be more lacking!, and they exercise their sovereignty with the same dignity and fullness as all of us can exercise. Let's not take out the paternalistic element now. Those countries of origin and transit are the first to maintain - as I have said on other occasions - their societies and young people, because they want to build society, they want to build a country. Those same countries, those same States do not want their youth to suffer slavery - because we can say slavery - to which the mafia subransites subransito; they do not want it either. I'll tell you that our state security forces and bodies are completely away from what you've said. Our forces and security forces of the State are fully democratic, are part of their DNA the Constitution and the rest of the legal system and act with the necessary proportionality at every specific moment and, above all, with the aim of enabling the exercise of rights and freedoms in a diverse and pluralistic scenario. Look, this government is not going to be taught human rights lessons in migration, because they seem to forget that we are the only State that has a maritime rescue service and we save lives. Every day we save lives, we don't need other non-governmental organizations to do this. [[applause]] They're not going to teach us human rights lessons. Every day - I repeat - we save the lives of men, women and minors who put their lives at risk for the indecent profit of the mafias. That is what I want to refer to and refer to, Mrs Carvalho Dantas. And let me also remind you that if you want to expand the Spanish territory, then yourself. To the spokesman for Junts, Mrs Illamola, on the insensitivity to which you have referred, I have already replied in those terms. Do not decontextualize what has been the actions, conduct and references made by the President of the Government and by the other ministers of the Government because we have maximum sensitivity. I believe that the President of the Government on migration has shown the maximum sensitivity since 1 June 2018 and, as he has indicated, we have preferential action in the European Union on the migration pact and on the migration policies of the European Union. You have also spoken to me about borders and it draws my attention that when you want to build other borders, you talk to me about borders, but, well, there we are. He's telling me about proportionality. I say again that it is a group of violent people, in a number not less than 1700, facing for trying violently to access Spanish territory with one hundred agents of the forces and security forces of the State and using that group dangerous elements. And you tell me about the European Court of Human Rights. Everything that has been done and how it has been done in the area of rejection at the border - which you call a hot return and which is not the same - has materialized in accordance with the doctrine established by the European Court of Human Rights, the Grand Chamber, and, in this regard, the interpretation, the updating of it by our Constitutional Court. I say again: we save lives because human rights are part of our DNA. You have made that reference and I repeat it in that sense. Mr. Boadella Esteve of PeCAT, I appreciate the tone. Evidently, migration policy is a policy that must be comprehensive. That is ours, an integral policy based on human rights, but this in no way excludes that we also have to protect our borders and democratic values when they are attacked or attempt to be attacked with the use of violence in the terms I have indicated, because what we cannot lose is the common sense at the time of interpreting: 1700 people acting in groups, going towards the border with dangerous elements, is a violent and organized group - I understand - 1700 people acting together are not two who are on the street to go out for coffee. And there's the mobs. Yes, there are the mafias and if we avoid common sense in our speech, we will come to conclusions - I believe - that they are not the right ones. I say again that we can empathize and sympathize with the reasons that can lead people to act in this way: economic, political, social, of all kinds, of what comes. That's why I was talking about the external dimension, but that doesn't rule out that we can't allow in a rule of law the exercise of violence against our borders or against our agents of the forces and security forces or against any official. That, I think, is a matter to be taken into account. Mr. Rego. The same is true of the insensitivity that you have spoken of. He also spoke about the lack of empathy with migrants and again mentioned how this Government saves lives every day and then has important reception programmes, like no other country in the European Union. And you tell me about the Moroccan cops in Spain. One of you has also said so. You know - I did not lie, Mr Iñarritu, it is something obvious that everyone knows - that when there is a border perimeter there is visual contact every day between the police officers of one country and the other. Even, for specific infrastructure reasons, one day they pass to pick up or turn less - whatever - within the perimeter and are allowed, but they do not act. That's what happened. They don't act, but that's what they think. That - I say again - is taken for granted. They are simply entrances for the purposes of infrastructure; indefectively, they do not act in Spanish sovereignty territory in that sense. I would like to mention in this broad spectrum, as you said, Mr Ruego, that we have and work, as it cannot otherwise be, on an integral migration policy, to which I have referred, in an external dimension; border control with joint research teams; the fight against mafia; and regular, orderly migration policy, such as circular migration. The Minister of Labour has already initiated circular migration policies with third countries with the government of President Sánchez. In that regard, I refer again and point out that the security of our borders is not outsourced. Again, that is an attack on the sovereignty of another country. Are you not realizing that you, saying that, are more paternalistic than anything else? And Mr. Gutiérrez, from Citizens, I don't know, you're going to get a hernia, an ulcer, just seeing me. It's been four years since the first day you don't want to see me. He's talking about infrastructure. We have more infrastructure in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. Tell the president of the city of Ceuta to see what infrastructure he has now and what he had four years ago. And I think he's not from the Socialist Party, but Mr. President of the Autonomous City of Ceuta is a serious person. If you also talk to the President of the Autonomous City of Melilla, you will tell them the same about infrastructure, now and before, and what this government invests in infrastructure and what it invests in personal media and what was previously invested. I just want to mention that. Migration policy. We have a migration policy since the first day we face the arrivals of more than eight hundred people. When we arrived in June 2018, there were even a few days eight hundred people a day; if not, I refer to the hemeroteca. Today we are heard in the European Union, we are heard in the JHA. We are not going a third step of the ministry, which are technical and very good, to the JHA. No, the minister goes, the secretary of state goes. They are going to see that it is the Government of Spain, really, that is working on this. We are, we are known and we are valued for everything that is being done. For this reason irregular entry into Spain is decreasing and, above all, the disarrays of mafia in different African countries, and also in Spain, which use irregular immigration, are also widening. In that sense, I want to say that there has been some progress. Then there are peaks of inputs and outputs, but you have to keep the overall tone and the overall tone is reduction. Why? Because there is that serious and important work in that regard, because there are more personal means, more material means, because there is more international cooperation and coordination with the countries to which I have referred in that indication. With which you can claim, but I believe that at some point you also amend the plan to some sentence, even from our highest court. Today, at least, he has amended the plan to some sentence. Mr Legarda is also concerned with insensitivity. I appreciate your tone, but the fundamental fact of the insensitivity of the President of the Government again says that it is not. Don't uncontextualize, please. And we're talking about mobs and irregular immigration. I'm sorry, a group of 1700 people, Mr. Legarda, is an organized group. It acts together - that is a clear organization - with violent means, with aggressive means, and that does not happen if there is no minimum organization, a minimum preparation. That - I repeat it again and I will repeat it to the full - does not mean that we are not a government involved, but quite the contrary. We are the Government most involved in ensuring the lives and security of the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable irregular migrants. I say again, I refer to Salvamento's data and to what our means are for those purposes and for those objects, which - I repeat - means that we cannot accept violence as an element of action by anyone, let alone against the State and public officials. And again I say that there are the data of Maritime Rescue, to which I have referred, and a concrete manifestation which, moreover, is a duty of every rule of law not only because of the requirements of the various international normative instruments, international conventions, but also because of a principle of ethics underlying every rule of law, every democracy. I would also like to refer to the entries of the Moroccan police officers to which Mr Legarda has also referred. As far as investigations are concerned, as I have said, the Attorney General's Office is investigating, the delegated prosecutor in foreign and immigration matters, with which we are, as I have said, collaborating and cooperating from the beginning, delivering all the materials, well graphics, well reports on them in the terms requested from us. Here it was also said: the Prosecutor's Office will decide, and it is for the Prosecutor to resolve and understand what he understands once he has all the elements on what happened on 24 June. I refer again to the concrete fact that the High Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and Public Freedoms of this institution, the legislative branch, the Ombudsman, has also opened an investigation in these terms. That is why, Mr Iñarritu, the only one who is also investigating the facts and has everything to do with it is the high commissioner of this house. And, obviously, the architecture of our fence-that already tell you now - it had no impact on the tragic events that occurred. Yes, Mr Iñarritu, I speak of proportionality because our forces and security forces of the State acted with proportionality and using the necessary means for the situation generated and created in Spanish territory. I'll tell you again, as you wish, but if you want, you know, you have here some fellow traveler and you who like to cross borders, because transit territories also with some fellow traveler here. You know how I tell you. As for the advertising of the images, we have moved the images where they were required of us, which is not on the website of the ministry, but where they are investigated is where they have to be valued and where they are. The Office of the Attorney-General of the State has them, i.e. the competent Office of the Public Prosecutor - she will know and decide on their use - and the Ombudsman. The images are also provided by the Ombudsman, which is the necessary and precise transparency in a rule of law before the competent bodies. You've told me about three days, but you already know that those Tarajal videos were even talked about manipulation. I understand that Mr Centella, Member of the United Left, made some reference to this, but, well, if you have fallen off the horse today, as he did at another time, and for you today is the example of transparency Mr Fernández Díaz, I must say that this Government understands transparency in other terms than those understood by Mr Fernández Díaz's Ministry of the Interior, in the light of the news we are aware of in this regard. With regard to the rejections at the border, those that occurred were in accordance with the law and in parameters of what is required by the European Court of Human Rights and our Constitutional Court. I say again that everything can be improved in terms of temporary protection and of the precise and necessary instruments, but we are working, as Mr Santiago said - and Mr Santiago knows it - in a decisive way in international protection and in providing the necessary and precise means in all areas for all applicants. And we will continue to work and continue to work, as I have also said, because this Government takes the migration policy into holistic parameters, of full transversality, in means and in the process of legal migration, orderly migration. Let us allow the investigation, Mr Iñarritu, to be concluded by the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ombudsman, and we will be able to continue to make the necessary and precise references or their allegations in this regard. Mrs Vehi, I think I've answered more or less everything you've come to establish. Look, where I was initially a little more in agreement - a little bit, huh? - with you is that migration policy is an integral policy and it is not of today or tomorrow, but it is of always and has to be in those open parameters of cooperation. But on the rest of the issues, I would like to point out that no one is going to lecture us on human rights. I again insist, even if it is very repetitive, on the performance of Salvamento Marítimo, the Civil Guard and the National Police. And I want to remember - now that it comes to my memory - another image, which you could see, of civilian guards saving children who were drowning in Ceuta. [[Applauds]] I think you remember that and I would like to express that gratitude to the state security forces and bodies, because those are our state security forces and bodies. We are to create a public and safe space for all in full diversity and we all accept our rights and freedoms. Just as we saved at sea with Maritime Rescue, and what the National Police and the Civil Guard are doing too - they could see it and observe all of you - that is being done every day, but that is not and cannot be incompatible with not allowing the exercise of violence to enter our country, with which I say again that the means used in Melilla on June 24 were the appropriate, necessary and precise means, taking into account the situation that had occurred. I am with you on one issue: the democratic standard of a country is measured by the treatment it gives to the most vulnerable. I just want to refer to the social laws that are being implemented; I just want to refer to our conviction and our relationship with the migrant population, with the population that comes from outside, social, economic media of all kinds to guarantee their lives in dignity. For us, for this Government, vulnerable individuals and groups, not only because it is the standard for assessing the level of democracy of a State, but simply because of a principal, first and indisputable ethical duty, are really the element in which we look, the main objective, so to speak, of our policies of all kinds, mainly of social policies. And in that context I would like to thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group, its spokesman, its words, for the support it gives to the Government, just as I thank the United Parliamentary Group We can, because we are really concerned and convinced that migration policy is essential today, but it was so in the past, although it was obviated by previous governments, and it will be so in the future. In those terms, that comprehensive and human rights-based policy will continue to guide us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u207	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have made myself clear. I told him that we were going to wait for the investigations to be completed and, at that time, we demanded the responsibilities. I think we have been the most loyal group today with you and the government - yes - and you bring me a written reply of insults to my person. That's what you need ten advisors for, to remind you of what I did or said ten or fourteen years ago? [[Applauds]] I'll tell you one thing. For you and for me, I will not remind you that we did ten years ago, because at that time we would have to speak both of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That said, Minister, he asked: What are you hiding, Mr Marlaska? Today it has avoided any hint of condemnation or criticism of the episode and its background, which is irregular migratory pressure and the mechanisms to contain it and ensure territorial integrity and border security. You were talking here today about not giving anyone human rights lessons. I remind you that you were the only Minister of the Interior who both the judge of the CIE of the Canary Islands and the Ombudsman himself said that they had migrants overcrowded as cattle. That was never told to any Government. I also remind you in human rights that you have the record on the coasts of the Canary Islands of 4,000 dead and that three hundred of them are drowned children. And I also remind you that you remain - that immigration policy you presume - the gateway to immigration into Europe. This data is not my data; it is your data, which publishes every fifteen days the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Marlaska, which I see you do not even read to you. [[showing a graph]] His erratic political, changing, open-door, paper-for-all, is the example of this mistaken migration policy. Change your immigration policy. It must enhance return policies. I give you an example: of almost 50,000 immigrants who entered Spain last year - it added the 8000 of Ceuta that you never add -, they only expelled from the country about 2500. Only 5% of immigrants entering Spain return from Spain. By the way, the European Parliament is asking you, Mr Marlaska, to explain the deaths in the Melilla fence. Are you planning on going or are you going to keep hiding? And, by the way, lessons from appearances... Hey, you've got 171 pending appearances on the Interior Committee. You have the record of all ministers, Mr Marlaska. We have the right to know whether his change of position with Morocco, to which he did not allude, is because of the theft of information they had on their phones and that they were taken away with Pegasus. We have a right to know what the new stage is with Morocco in terms of security that you are talking about here. The new stage with Morocco is that when Sanchez is on vacation in Lanzarote more than seven hundred immigrants arrive from Morocco in five days to Lanzarote, when in the previous months none had arrived? What was it, to welcome him? Is the new stage with Morocco that almost 50% of immigrants entering Spain have Moroccan nationality? Is the new stage with Morocco that only 6% of Moroccans who enter Spain illegally accept return? The new stage with Morocco is to break relations with Algeria, which today do not accept us a single immigrant back, and in passing we are left without the gas that so much is missing from us? The new stage with Morocco is to break relations with Algeria and now to see how immigration to the Balearic Islands increases, with an increase of 15%, being of Algerian nationality 90% of those arriving? The new stage with Morocco is that the customs of Ceuta and Melilla are still closed? What is the new stage with Morocco, Mr Marlaska? We have a right to know. And, look, I remind you that Ceuta and Melilla are Spanish and not Moroccan, Mrs Trujillo says it or the Socialist says it. [[Applauds]] And you have an obligation to defend the borders and security of Ceuta and Melilla. I'm done, Mr. Marlaska. You are here today by your face, but you are also by the face of Sanchez, who throws you here in the lions' yard - yes, laugh, Mr Marlaska - where your first lion is your immigration incompetence and your second lion, given today's situation, are your government partners. If he had dignity - if he had dignity - he would first break with those who brought him here - that it was not the People's Party, that the People's Party wanted Sánchez - that are demanding very serious responsibilities, Mr Marlaska, very serious. Today they say that this has been in Spanish territory. But if you are unable to do that and it is about staying in power at the expense of whatever it is, if you had dignity - I repeat, Mr Marlaska - you would leave this government today, because today you continue to face Sánchez, but hiding before the Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u209	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u210	Today you continue to face Sánchez and hide yourself in front of the men and women police and civilian guards who have sworn to give their lives for this country and who today are the only ones who are defending borders and security in Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u211	Thank you. Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Great-Marlaska, you've shown that you're keeping the guy as good as you can, with justifications for one another and with lies for another. Cheer up, you've got less to run away from. But really the only thing I had to tell you about what ministry CETI manages when I told you about immigrant transfers from CETI to the peninsula? Do you also want to drain the bulk of those transfers? Entering your exhibition, I do not know if you have yet to know that we are talking about a matter of defense in the face of the attack of thousands of immigrants to Spain. And in the face of those attacks, you, your Government, do not react. Well, yes, by inaction in many cases or by action against in many others. I say inaction because it did not give me time in my previous speech to teach you how you defend the border of Melilla in the two assaults that took place in March this year in twenty-four hours. [[Show a picture]] Onda Tuit Zero Melilla, March 3, ten and two minutes in the morning. Advance: Dozens of sub-Saharan immigrants have managed to access Melilla this morning through the area between the Chinese neighborhood and the Muslim cemetery. First tweet from Wave Zero. Second tweet by Onda Zero Melilla, March 3, ten and twelve minutes in the morning - ten minutes apart -: Nine days of equality begin in the Civil Guard Command. Ten minutes difference between one tweet and another, will you explain it to me? Because this is because, in the face of the organized and violent attempt of hundreds of immigrants in March at the Melilla fence, you force the Benemerita agents to be on a course on equality while the rest of the troops play their lives on foot without material and without reinforcements. Very enlightening of the protection that this Government is doing from our southern border. [[Applauds]] As enlightening as it is that you lie when you talk about reinforcements, and the truth ratifies you, Mr.Marlaska: Interior leaves the squares of 114 civilian guards unreplaced in the fences of Ceuta and Melilla. Who do you want to fool, Minister? Let's see, that entering Spain illegally with violence cannot be a right, and the Executive, far from admitting the error and implementing a firm immigration policy that seriously protects our borders, what it does is allocate public money to feed mafias and NGOs, eating that monster from the trade of people fed by the deaths in the ditch and by the sea. Human trade will continue as long as this Government does not act firmly. As long as they continue to allow the subsidized proliferation of NGOs, they will continue to defeat the mafias; and, as long as that happens, they will continue to obtain barbarism, Minister, with those deaths of immigrants who come to Spain invited by their executive, deceived under the promise of a better life; and you will continue to obtain barbarism, too, in those neighborhoods. In short, chaos everywhere, Mr. Marlaska. [[Applauds]] And when he continues to leave our civilian guards on the border; and when the Ministry of the Interior has published the vacancies at the national level and we see - and see the agents - that, to top it off, he does not take out a single vacancy for the protection and surveillance units of the border perimeter and, therefore, again acts out of inaction, because you bet not to increase the staff of the Benemerita to defend our homeland from violent attacks. Faced with this, we can only come to a conclusion: you, this government, are an accomplice to the mafia of human trafficking; and you can now put all the anti-trepa meshes you want and all the inverted feathers you want, that the problem is not the design or shape of the fence, because the immigrant who wants to enter illegally is going to make the weapon necessary to stand up and jump. Therefore, the problem is your open door policy, the problem is the so-called effect induced by those policies, the problem is the subsidies to NGOs, increasingly numerous and in increasing quantity, for such unhumane purposes, as you have shown here, today, you, trying to justify the unjustifiable. The problem is their lack of readiness to strengthen our state security forces and bodies at the southern border. The problem, Mr. Marlaska, is you. The problem, Mr Marlaska, is your Government, which so wretchedly protects our homeland from the invasions that are being suffered by land and sea.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u213	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u214	I'm done, Mr. President. Mr Marlaska, take care of what the Spaniards want and expect me to make a Government of Spain, to ensure our territorial integrity and national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u215	Your Honor, finish up, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u216	By the way, you can run now. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u217	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comuno, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u218	Mr Minister, it is clear that, apart from the fact that the events have occurred in Spain or Morocco, what has happened is a barbarity and tragedy that can never be repeated again, and it is not proportional a border action when the result is thirty-seven dead and one hundred injured, that is, that the means used were adequate, is to buy the discourse of the invasion of the right, and that is what we cannot fall under any concept, because, as I said before, there is no such invasion. The management of migratory flows at the border is joint between Spain and Morocco; there are methods of collaboration, agreements, agreements, and so appears in the BOE and everyone, while collaborating, has their obligations and responsibilities, and we cannot neglect or delegate responsibilities in a country with poor democratic quality and which uses migration policy, as we saw in May 2021, to remove Spain from its historical responsibilities with the Saharan people. It must therefore be clearly recognized that what has happened cannot be justified, and I ask you that the Ministry of the Interior commit itself to the fact that something like this can never happen again. The southern border of Spain will always be there, it will always be between Spain and Morocco, and we can never justify reasons for the violation of human rights if people's lives are put at serious risk and, much more, to reach extreme situations. That is to say, a means is proportional when it preserves a human life before a fence and, of course, Spain's obligations, responsibilities and capacity to act are priorities, apart from what has happened at every moment. Durable solutions, such as those set out in the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, which defends the Global Compact also for refugees, should be put in place, as advocated by both the International Organization for Migration and UNHCR; and due guarantees should be given at the border. E, I insist, border posts with access for asylum-seekers, access of asylum-seekers and international protection in consulates and embassies and everything in accordance with the Spanish asylum law and international standards and eliminate any area of legal insecurity or legal loopholes at the border. We have seen security officials from Morocco and Spain, on one side and on the other side of the fence, intervening in this matter that we are discussing today. The intervention of a Spanish border official who has as a consequence that the alien is under the effective authority of Spanish agents, by itself, has to be a criterion of Spanish competence and jurisdiction, primarily in order to preserve life and integrity, in accordance with Article 3 of the European Convention, because for this reason Spain is a State of law, and any rejection at the border has to be individualised, after communication to the judicial authority, as provided for in Article 58 of the Aliens Act and as has been introduced by the Constitutional Court's judgment in its criteria. In other words, the mafia, the organizations that traffic with people, mistreating, assaulting or causing this victimization with the people who are, in turn, the victims of the criminal organizations, are not combated, but dismantling and punishing their members. And I insist on the right, not even in Spain do you occupy the house when you go out to buy bread or there is no immigration invasion. Here are the figures from the INE, from the National Institute of Statistics. Migration flows, as everyone knows, move. The vast majority of foreigners arriving in Spain along the southern border have no intention of arriving in Spain or staying in Spain and, in fact, continue their migration route to Europe. It is false to interpret that all foreigners entering Europe along the southern border remain in our country. It doesn't hold. From the United Nations We can insist that we need to take concrete steps to collaborate in identifying the deceased, handing them over to the families, to give adequate social and psychological assistance to the victims and their families and, above all, to organize, initiate an independent, non-criminal investigation, apart from what the Office of the Prosecutor does, with the intervention of the United Nations, with the intervention of the International Organization for Migration, of UNHCR, of whom it is understood, in order to establish the causes of what has happened and, above all, to prevent it from happening again. Of course, these policies are very complex to manage and, the more hands there are for it and, hopefully, the better the intervention of the international community and human rights agencies. And let us not forget that just as today this happens with immigrants, with people from other countries, this very thing has happened with Spanish migrants not so long ago. In the 1940s, in the 1950s, similarly, Spanish emigrants arrived in other countries of South America and were also confined, were also detained at the border and were also limited in their rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u219	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u220	And, that which our people have suffered, we cannot allow any people in the world to suffer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u221	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u222	Genocide. According to the RAE, 'The systematic extermination or elimination of a human group on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion, politics or nationality'. You say invasion of violent, we say genocide. Three answers to your reply. I had prepared a text, but I will give three answers on the basis of what you have said here and ask you some questions. First, removing hot returns from Spanish legislation could prevent another massacre in Melilla. We have not come to politics or demagogy. Secondly, the paternalism that you mentioned, Minister, you know better than I do, it's called money. Millions of euros for third countries to stop migration and many times I killed migrants at borders. Thirdly, what a shame, Minister, that you have set Maritime Rescue as an example. Sasemar is the public fleet with fewer resources and fewer crews; people make 182 guards 24 hours a year, have no vacation and, despite making a regularization plan, the crews continue to fail, under legal minimums not to stop machines due to lack of crew. Do your government favor to decentralize the central services of Salvamento Marítimo, which are in Madrid, the port city of Madrid, and which has no sailor at the head of the management. Some questions. One. On the proceedings of the Spanish police, you have not yet answered. According to your point of view, have they been within the framework of legality? Two. Do you admit that the Spanish police let the Moroccan police in to arrest and handcuff migrants on Spanish territory? This told me in the CIE one of the surviving people. There is evidence that the Spanish security forces used their weapons. What explanation do you have? He hasn't answered either. Is it also within the framework of the legality, morality and ethics of your ministry and government to shoot asylum seekers? We need the images. When will you publish the images? Is there any explanation to hinder an investigation of genocide like that of Melilla, something to fear or conceal? According to the cadastre is Spanish soil, Minister, will they assume responsibilities? What has been and how has the anti-disturbing material been used? I've got a lot here in the office. In that rathole, minister, there were human beings dying from tear gas, how come the Spanish police didn't open the door so people wouldn't die? Can you answer this? By the way, as Deputy Mireia Vehí said, Morocco yesterday prevented the entry into Nador of the commission made up of Euro MPs, lawyers and activists to know what happened in the June 24 massacre. Will you do anything with Morocco about this? Or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I know it's not up to you, but, anyway, will you do something as Minister of the Interior? Do you think the ministry will end the use of firearms against the unarmed civilian population? Does your ministry intend to provide mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring police actions and the use of force against migrants at and outside borders? Do your ministry and your Government intend to continue to deny victims their right to reparation for the damage suffered by families? Do you intend to continue to contribute to the lack of protection against attacks on your physical, moral and psychological integrity, Minister? You could have learned from the Tarajal, it's been said here. I also mean the Tarajal, but they managed to get to the right of the PP. I have just said, Minister, that you do not pretend that no democratic person, no anti-racist person, no person with a minimum sense of humanity is with you. Accept your account. Of course, in the Catalan countries we do not, we do not, and all we want, Minister, is to denounce them, to denounce the facts. We are doing it, we have done it and we will continue to do it so that justice is done and that the terrible situations we have seen on the border never again occur, because migrant lives matter, black lives matter. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u223	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u224	Thank you, President. Minister, I thank you for your concern for my health, but I will tell you to be calm, I have an iron health and nothing happens to me. I think you have a problem with how you understand democracy and how you understand the negotiation or the deal between the government and the opposition, because I talk to many of your fellow ministers, they call me - yesterday, without going any further, with the Minister of Industry I was half an hour on the phone - but it is that you never call. I speak with the Minister of Industry, with the Minister of Defence, with the Minister of Justice, with the First Vice-President, with the Minister of the Presidency, but not only me, my colleagues and his colleagues in the opposition. Do you know which minister is the only minister who doesn't talk to anyone? You. So I think the one with a problem is you and you have to make him look, I've already told him once. Neither you nor the Secretary of State ever want to consent to anything, never call the opposition for anything, don't report anything and don't want to comment on anything, so don't blame us. I think that if you think that I love you badly or think badly of you, you are basically just expressing your bad conscience, perhaps because you have a bad awareness of past actions and statements at some point with this party and with this parliamentary group and also with whom you speak. Anyway. Gentlemen of the Government, these days we are seeing how Russia gives us lessons every day - Mr Serrada, this too goes for you - on how a war should never be waged. You show us every day in this Chamber how a country is not governed, how a country is misruled and, above all, what you are demonstrating is how no other legislature like this will ever be repeated. The failure of June in Melilla - I think we have already talked about it - is the failure of Sánchez and his entire government. Yes, Minister, of this whole government, because, of course, and you have said so, it affects many areas and perhaps the one which is the least internal, the least affected by the migration problem, the least affected. That is why we have always asked that the appearance that should have taken place here is that of Mr Sánchez and not his, because it is the president to whom we have to face the absence of a real migration policy, because what you have told us are patches, not new migration policies. A migration policy that is employment-oriented, a modern, uncomplex policy that puts migrants and their rights at the centre of migration policy and not patches like the ones you are putting in our weak legislation on this issue. We Citizens have already proposed several times the need for a specific law that addresses all these things and many regulatory changes. We have demanded this from the Government several times from this rostrum, which agrees with the social partners and with the rest of the parliamentary groups on a broad-based reform that ends up effectively regulating these migratory movements and makes it easier for people who wish to move towards a better life the conditions and rights to be able to do so. Minister, you haven't and you won't. That is why I am announcing that, given their inaction in this matter, Citizens will soon be presenting a bill that will regulate the conditions for a safe, effective and labour-oriented migration that will put an end to the mafias who traffic with people, who are the only ones who win with these tragedies. Mr Marlaska, you wanted to be the Fouché of this government, that ambitious person, with an over-ambitious ambition, who also always had the ability to keep up at all costs in the different French governments in which you were in. You, as we have already mentioned, began as an independent technician, triumphed in adopted politics, but I fear that in the end you will be remembered exclusively as a lazarillo. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u225	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u226	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your explanations. In my first speech I commented on the facts of Nador Melilla, and treated them jointly as Nador Melilla because the President of the Government also treated them as a joint operation when he congratulated both security forces on the work done on both sides. He commented that he considered it a failure of migration policies based solely on security with a diminutive dimension - he said - of the dignity of people, of humanitarian principles and of the fulfilment of international commitments, mainly in asylum and shelter, but I believe that after this session I have to conclude that I also consider it a failure of migration policies from a security perspective, in my first intervention I commented on it from a prevention dimension. They were not planned facts, seen afterward. It was a predictable spontaneous action by migrants camped in the vicinity of Nador on the coast or because of arrests, raids, forced displacements and the destruction of camps carried out by Moroccan security forces; I would define it as a Fuenteovejuna of migrants. In the media used there were no stairs, no forks. It is true that there was an electric shear, which seems to have been damaged in the first attempt, in which they managed to pass one hundred thirty-three, but no more. Then the mobs didn't intervene. I asked him and he did not answer me: did the Moroccan security services inform them - said vulgarly - of what was being cooked there? Because, if you had known, and I think you should have known, the device would have been another, I have no doubt. The security device would have been another one. These incidents occur when the security device is not sufficient with respect to aggression. When the safety device is well dimensioned, there is no aggression, it is repelled much more easily, it happens in all manifestations, at least in everyday events. Second, neutralization. The neutralization of the incident was a failure, because, if I had to draw the conclusion of what you are telling us, it would be that in the face of a similar situation in the future we would reasonably admit between twenty-three and thirty-seven dead and one hundred injured, because it was proportional, it was reasonable, it was appropriate to the situation; that is, from twenty-three to thirty-seven dead and one hundred wounded we have to assume them as a reasonable action. Reasonability is linked to equity, and it is about means and results. The result, of course, is absolutely disproportionate, and not just because of the result in relation to the means of aggression, because I have to look at the result in the assaulted forces. What was the result of the assaulted forces against thirty-seven dead? It's just that you don't have a comparison, minister. Really, you can't accept that it was a proper performance. I mean, in the future, would another similar action also be appropriate? No, no, It is an answer that no reasonable citizen can accept, and we can understand the difficulties of the moment, etc. And it's a failure in the investigation. We still do not know, except for some investigations by humanitarian organizations, what happened quite prolificly. You have only told us here that there has been a violent aggression of a thousand and a thousand people, but you have forgotten the whole dimension of security, prevention, neutralisation and research. We don't know how many dead or the cause. It may not have been in Spain, but we have an obligation to ask our partners, and it is now clear who the partners are, after the government's turn last March with the Saharawi question, as identified by the president of the government: a joint action. Finally, with regard to the most purely migratory issues, we believe that they should be on our frontispiece. Spain and the Basque Country went and we are welcomed and I think we should welcome, and we went and we are realities of migration and we should offer what we would like to receive, yes, from social responsibility towards our societies and also solidarity with emigrants, and we must remember that the most developed countries in the world are those that best manage diversity. Finally, I would just like to recall - he concluded, President - the words that our group has already said in the debate on the state of the nation on this issue. We must respect the objectives of the Global Compact on Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, the Marrakech Pact, and the Union's frameworks and international treaties, especially in the area of refugees and asylum, and all this, which we cannot ignore, in a scenario of intensifying the phenomenon of migration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u227	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u228	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I think it is a nonsense that you, with more than thirty dead people, talk about proportionality. It's a nonsense, it's not consistent. Seeing what happened, it doesn't make sense. I don't understand how you come to that conclusion. You wanted to highlight whether it was Spanish territory or not. All you have to do is go to the plans that I was provided from your ministry when I made a request for information on what is the delimitation of Spain. I'm not saying it, it's his plans, those of the cadastre, those of the IGN, the plans of the international treaties of Spain. The entire fence is located in Spanish territory, but also the border infrastructure. If you want to give territory to Morocco, then, as you will understand, Bildu won't care much, but here we are talking about a matter of jurisdiction. It will be a judge or a magistrate who has to determine where the facts occurred. I'm not saying that everything happened on Spanish territory. I am telling you that the courtyard between the Moroccan door and the Spanish door is Spanish territory according to its plans and according to international treaties. As far as I know, this House hasn't changed them. And I think it's important to investigate to the full, because the important thing is to determine what happened and how it happened. You told the People's Party that in the opposition they say one thing and then they do another. And you? You guys, what? With the Tarajal, did they not ask for a commission of inquiry, the images and the appearance of the minister and the secretary of state? Now what? No, he is investigating the Office of the Public Prosecutor and the Ombudsman; it seems to me very good, but why are they restricting the possibility of being investigated in this House? You love the commissions of inquiry about what the People's Party did, and I think it's very good, but why not about what happened in this legislature? I think it would be important to have that capacity also from the General Courts. At least he has acknowledged that yes, that the Moroccan gendarmes entered Spanish territory, in Melilla, we have taken a step towards what he said in June in this House, but he has said that they did not act. I invite you to go to social media and see the images recorded by a journalist in which police are seen, in this case Moroccan gendarmes, acting with anti-disturbing material and detaining people in Spanish territory. Is that acting or not?, I ask you, you are the expert in the matter. So far - we've been a long time - I haven't been clear how much material and what kind of anti-disturbing they used. You said that it was used, but tell us how much, because there are testimonies and there are indications to think that part of the catastrophe, of that tragedy, occurred because of the amount of gas thrown on both sides of the border in that border area, Spanish territory, in which there was an avalanche and several people fell to the ground. You still haven't explained why that door didn't open. Why didn't they open it, Minister? Explain Lo to us. And what did you see in those images? Why don't you want to teach them? True, Mr Fernández Díaz is not an example of anything, but you are acting even worse. The People's Party put four videos; you haven't put any. Animate yourself, win it in transparency; animate yourself, it's easy, it's very easy. And then there's the timeline of the facts. It can be seen that before four o'clock in the morning, what happened in the previous days, you had no record that you had forced them to leave the Gurugú camp and that everything had meant that what happened was going to happen. Morocco already knew, had thousands of agents destined in the area and even auxiliary forces; you, one hundred agents. I do not know if they had a previous schedule, but it is important to know when they knew what was happening in that border area to know whether they activated that protocol or why they did not activate the protocol of health collaboration and emergencies in the face of the terrible images of beatings of agonizing people and injured people that were occurring in that border area. It's over, Mr. President. You talk about mafia, but it's very easy; if legal and secure systems and pathways are installed, you're done with mafia. What way does a Sudanese in Morocco have and feel unsure of being able to access Spain legally and apply for asylum? It doesn't exist. They have the capacity to do so with their Moroccan partners. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, also encourage us to make committees of inquiry into very serious events that are taking place in this legislature. I believe that it would be beneficial for this House and for all citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u229	Thank you. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u230	Thank you, President. Minister, you have not responded to the specific issues raised with you and, in fact, you have reiterated the proportionality in the use of force. Amnesty International just released a statement a while ago about his appearance reiterating the demand for explanations and detecting - he says - in particular eight types of violations of rights in the actions of the Spanish police and the Moroccan police. You have said that we need to be clear about what we are talking about and have referred on several occasions to the mafias. I very much agree with what Mr Iñarritu proposed. There are mafias, it is true, but if their answer is persecution of the people who suffer the mafias, it is not a proportional or ethical response that guarantees human rights. What people need are rights, human rights and foreign rights in this particular case. In fact, there is an ongoing ILP that proposes that you make a massive regularization of migrants because the borders are external, but they are also internal. [[Applauds]] If you are very concerned about the mafia, grant rights, work for migrant people in the Spanish state to have rights. You said when you told us about the plans for collaboration and cooperation: we are working to ensure that people do not have to leave their countries. That people do not have to leave their countries has a very clear name, which is racial capitalism. It has been working for many years, it is not new and it has responsibility, and the Spanish State has a very clear colonial past and very clear responsibilities that its Government has not wanted to recognize or repair or address. One last question. You talk about the need or exercise of saving lives, you have referred to various concrete examples of saving lives. What is happening on the southern border is a practical class of what we call institutional racism. You're discriminating by origin. Another thing is that you can see concrete images of concrete people saving lives, more would be missing. I return to a question which may seem a little more philosophical, but which I believe is understood in practical terms in a very easy way. I return to Frantz Fanon and return to the border between being and not being. Being are those bodies that have rights, those bodies that seem sacred, next to the non-being, those bodies that can be mutilated, persecuted and in this case even murdered. There are sacred children and children who are persecuted, and there are teenagers who are sacred and adolescents who are persecuted. You were talking about not giving them lessons in human rights, in concrete images. Do you remember in May 2021 those images of the Spanish Army throwing young people from a rock because they had illegally crossed the border? I already know that the Spanish Army is not within the competence of its ministry, but since we are talking about images of life saving I believe that on the southern border there have been many that have not exactly gone in the approach of saving lives. The corporal. I believe that there is also a responsibility not only for legislators, but also for those who implement public policies. Laws generate realities, laws generate subjectivities and migration policies, the Aliens Act and policies that come from the European Union, provide a specific framework. And this determined framework is that of the persecution of the migrant population which is considered not legal by origin. This is the framework that supports the speeches of the extreme right, Minister, as much as I know you do not consider yourself to be of the extreme right, but if the migration policy that is being pursued is the persecution of the migrant people, it is supporting the utterly implausible speeches that the extreme right makes. There are many forms of racism in the Spanish State. We were talking about asylum - the application of the asylum law shines through its absence -; we were talking about racist raids, which have been condemned by various human rights agencies; we were talking, for example, about discrimination in access to housing for people who are no longer crossing the border, but are in the process of regularization, and we were also talking about racist insults. For example, we have a partner who is going to be the top of the list at Barcelona City Hall, who is a black woman and who today has to be listening to racist insults for being black. Therefore, you have responsibilities, policies generate subjectivity, and in the case of Migration policies is even more important, because we are talking about concrete human lives and bodies, in this case it seems to be of seventy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u231	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u232	Thank you. Genocide and racism, on the one hand; on the other, open doors and called effect. Ladies and gentlemen, I think they are quite disproportionate and quite unfair with a government policy and a state policy such as migration policy, as I also think it is too unfair to question the government's policy of migration in terms of security and that it is working well. Mrs Vázquez, I don't know where you read the data, but the data offered by the statistical portal of the Ministry of the Interior is that between January 1 and September 15, 2018 37,900 people entered our country, and in the same period this year, 21,000, or that in the same period in Melilla entered, compared to this year... [[Mrs. Vázquez Blanco: It wasn't us.]] No, it was you, Mrs. Vazquez, do the math. [[Mrs. Vázquez Blanco: Until May]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u233	Mrs. Vazquez, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u234	Two thousand fewer people entered Melilla. Therefore, justifying an attack on the Government's internal migration policy with this data is quite light, as light are some comments you have made here, because they are still quite unfair and do not even take into account your past, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Mrs. Vazquez Blanco shows a chart]] In 2014, you yourself in a national security report said that you had to have a little more consideration for our preferred partners, that you had to be careful because there was a change in migration routes and that you had to make investments in the perimeter of Ceuta and Melilla, because you were going to suffer more migratory pressure, and you did nothing, you didn't even listen to yourselves, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. So don't come today asking for explanations about something that you know is very difficult to counter. Mr. Santiago, what security forces and bodies are we talking about? Are we talking Spanish? Because if we talk about the Spanish, I think they acted proportionally. Evaluations of what other security forces and bodies do can be done, and of course we are going to do them and they are going to be done, and of course explanations are going to be given, and of course the international agencies are asking for it, but, I insist, let us also be fair in making assessments and making certain comments on the performance of State security forces and bodies. Mrs Carvalho, I wanted to ask you a question: if we do not have our partners, if we do not have countries of origin and transit, if we talk about them as externalisation or of giving competences that they do not have to help curb the irregular migration phenomenon, who can we count on? Because we cannot count on the European Union either, because it seems that it is not a common body and an agency that can establish some kind of policy and we believe that its migration policies are wrong, tell me what we are doing. Do we isolate ourselves, as we have been isolated with the People's Party, or do we do as we are trying to do with this government, which is to ensure that in the European Union Spain again has weight, again has relevance, and its decisions and voice are taken into account? Mrs Carvalho, I do not understand your position and, of course, I do not understand the demagogy that your group is doing, even while always respecting your opinion, because I think it is a fairly well-founded opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what the commitments of this government, which I believe are being fulfilled and we will continue to do so, which I believe is the best way to combat the irregular migration phenomenon and which I believe is the best way for some in this House to associate the migration phenomenon and criminalize it to stop having a voice in this House, because that is what we want all the Democrats in this country. And as democrats, it is good that we know what the government is doing, what its commitments are, and whether or not they are being fulfilled. Let us value these elements and see whether they are made or not. The Government committed itself to improving security policy, and is doing so. He committed himself to supporting State security forces and bodies, and is doing so, improving his working conditions, increasing his salary, increasing staff and investing in infrastructure. The Government of Spain has committed itself to strengthening and expanding bilateral relations with countries of origin and transit, and with more than thirty countries, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of Spain pledged that the European Union would regard Ceuta and Melilla as the southern border, and that is being done, that it is being achieved and that the European Union will be able to feel and take into account the importance of the southern border of Europe, the protection of its borders and, of course, the protection of human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u235	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vazquez, you may have read some of the reply, but it is that you are predictable, then facilitates the work; however, I have also given you the oral reply you were asking for. [[Applauds]] You were talking about 2018. You're right, 2018 was the worst year, but that's because you did nothing from 2001 to May 31, 2018. And that situation was created and generated because all bilateral relations with countries of origin and transit had been squandered. See the data for 2015, 2016, 2017 and until 31 May 2018. Suddenly they don't appear. [[Mrs. Vázquez Blanco shows a chart]] No, don't teach anything. Reality is reality, how they went... [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived]] If you want, you can listen to me, as I have. That's the reality. Why then in 2019 did they drop by 56%? Because a serious, comprehensive, orderly migration policy and recovery of relations with countries were already producing immediate and rapid results. That is so clear, a problem so complex and a policy that you have broken down, migration policy, obviously is not fixed in a month or two. But if I may now, I would like to reinforce that we have been very effective from the very beginning. You talk about arrivals this year. Look at the Mediterranean, look at the arrivals in other Mediterranean countries. I do not like to individualise by country, because we all form one and because I tell you that migration policy is a policy of the European Union, not of each of the countries of the European Union. You talk about coming back. Of course, and we are doing so, because, in proportion, we are the country of the European Union that returns most irregular migrants, also as a result of our relations with countries of origin and transit. You are like VOX, you would stop the migrants - I don't know how it would stop you, I prefer not to think about it - and you will return them all by putting them on a plane and taking them to a country. That is ignorance and maximum ignorance. If there is no cooperation, there is no collaboration with countries - I do not want to extend much because I have already said this on other occasions - there is obviously no possible return or feasible return. We are increasing it, we are working and it is a consequence of those relationships we have. He talks to me about Morocco and Algeria. Of course, they are two very important strategic partners. He talks to me about Algeria and a supposed change of Algeria. Look, Algerian citizens' admissions have been reduced by 35% compared to the year 2021. You can see that, too. Finally, you tell me about relationships and my mobile phone. I don't know what my mobile phone is for, but you know I'm very transparent. You, VOX and Citizens - I'm going to put you in -, I want to, and I think you've shown it for four years, but if there had been any of those other conversations you would have come out, because other conversations come out of many people and I've been in many sensitive places. Didn't they come out? With the wish that you would have had that my name or my voice would have come out at some point. They are obviously not afraid of the President or any member of the Government of Spain. We, of course, have nothing to hide or anything to worry about in our lives, neither in the personal nor in the professional, with which I ask you for that tranquility. Mrs López Álvarez, I just want to say that yours is the speech of falsehood, when I hear you talking about CETI, because if someone doesn't have a specific data, the rest of your speech is very unreliable. And the rest of your speeches are unreliable, because they are more effective, and I tell you to ask the authorities, ask the National Police, ask the Civil Guard, and use all the necessary and accurate data, because there are more personal means and more material means. Because not only do we have to support the National Police and the Civil Guard here, but we have to do it later, at work, on the ground. And in that you are not good, in that support I must say that you are not good. You make an absolutely hate speech. Hate is part of your life. Tell the NGOs today and what speech you have made regarding them. That's right, with a very nice smile, but that smile, too, I can hold on to it. As for running away, I didn't run away at more difficult times, so you won't think I'm going to run away from here for your assessments or interventions. But I will tell you something clearer and more serious in this regard. I will not flee from here or from politics, first of all, for my interest for more than thirty-four years in the public service, in the administration and in the service to the whole of the citizenship that I have always had in my professional life - it is an honor to be Minister of the Interior for someone who really wants to the public - and, secondly, because I will not go until I can unmask the totalitarianism that enclose each of your interventions. You give me the strength to continue for that purpose. [[Applauds]] Mr Santiago, we fully agree that we can improve the entire international protection procedure. We are working on this, but again I say that our forces and security forces of the State, as Mr Legarda has mentioned, acted in the necessary, precise and circumstance-sensitive terms, with effective parameters of proportionality, and investigations are open. There is an investigation in the Office of the Public Prosecutor and the Ombudsman, where all the circumstances have been brought forward. Mrs Carvalho, all I'm saying is that I can allow you everything - and you know I don't usually be so expressive on some issues - but I'm not going to let you say that state security forces and bodies used firearms against migrants, against vulnerable people. I won't allow it, because it's fake. They acted with the necessary and precise means and certainly never used firearms. As for the images, I say again that they are in the place where we have been asked, in the competent bodies that are investigating it, that is, in the Office of the Public Prosecutor and the Ombudsman. In that sense, when you speak of Maritime Rescue I will tell you that we are the only country that really has a service like SASEMAR, with very important and very relevant means. I would like to acknowledge the work they are doing and the cooperation and coordination they have with the Civil Guard and the rest of the State security forces and bodies. In that sense, it is true, it is so and in those terms: we save lives. When he says to decentralize, I want to tell him that the Spanish Government, in this matter of Maritime Rescue, is something more than Madrid, does not limit us to Madrid. We are even decentralizing certain institutions within the General Administration of the State. Obviously, we are the Government of Spain, not the Government of Madrid. Mr. Gutierrez, I am very pleased with your state of health. I want to tell you that I speak to the speakers at the necessary and precise times, and you also have my phone for as long as you want to talk to me or comment on some extreme. I don't think anyone will have any complaints, when they made a call, asked for some information or asked for any other circumstances that were competing and needed to be specified. I therefore believe that this area has no greater scope in the case you have expressed. As far as migration policy is concerned, something else will not have been done by the Ministry of the Interior during these four years, but I always say that migration policy, because of objective and obvious circumstances, has been, and will be - because it is a present and future challenge - an essential element. That is why we have general policies, both in the Interior and in the other competent or concerned ministries. Mr. Legarda, I feel a little bit the tone of your speech, I did not expect it to be in those exact or concrete terms, because it is not you, but quite the opposite. You are a very technical person, very moderate and very worried about reality, and here I see you draw conclusions too early to a tragedy. To all - and I say again to all - no one has suffered more than to us those deaths of those people. In this sense, let us stop the development of research, but I repeat again, we cannot be alien to common sense either. The necessary conclusions are being investigated and drawn on the basis of the evidence. Although it is also true - and I repeat again - that a violent attack on our borders cannot be assumed in a rule of law, because it is so much like a violent attack on democratic values. Obviously, we are among the first drivers of the Marrakech Pact for safe migration, as you also know well. Mr. Iñarritu, that's what I said. You do not regret more than I do, nor do the rest of the Government or the parliamentary group, the death of these migrants. We continue to work, we evaluate all the actions that we have, that we develop and that we perform. We also cooperate in the investigation of the facts in the manner that is, of course, appropriate and appropriate under the direction of the competent authorities, mainly the Office of the Prosecutor, but also the Ombudsman. I'm telling the D.A. 'cause it's part of the courthouse. Mrs Vehí, I say again that we are working on migration, on that comprehensive and cross-cutting policy, and not just on security. We also work, as it cannot be otherwise, in the area of social protection, universalization of health care for migrants, regardless of their regularity, irregularity, etc. Why? Because human dignity is a guiding principle that is part of our DNA. Mr Serrada, thank you very much for your intervention, your cooperation and your support. We will continue to pursue a cross-cutting and comprehensive migration policy, looking at people and human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u237	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u238	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the concrete measures that the Government is going to take to resolve Spain's position on energy and to solve the ruin of the Spanish people. Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor for the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u239	Very good afternoon. I will try to be very brief and quickly explain the initiative we have put forward. We are debating a motion for urgent interpellation, that is, it comes from an interpellation that I raised last week with the Minister of Ecological Transition, the Minister of Energy. I asked her a number of questions, in my opinion of absolute common sense, and she answered a little with her political agenda and, of course, she did not answer any of the questions I asked her. In this motion today we will vote on ten points proposed by VOX, which are of absolute common sense. We are going to ask you to vote separately, so that each of the parties in this House has to get wet in each of these proposals, and so the Spaniards, who listen to us and who see us, can hold each of these parties to account. [[Applauds]] As an introduction, it is important that we all know something that is palpable in the street and palpable in the environment. Spain and Europe - but today in this House we are concerned with Spain - are in a situation of energy - also in others, but above all in energy - critical. We are paying the most expensive prices in the history of energy, and we must ask ourselves why. For many years there has been a policy in Europe - and in Spain too - of centralising the types of energy, of de-diversifying the sources of energy used in Europe. We had coal, oil, nuclear energy, gas, hydraulic - both pumping and flowing - solar and wind, all this energy mix allowed us to diversify. When it was convenient to focus the shot more on one and when on other occasions it was expensive on the other, we focused on the other. With this mixture we kind of survive. For almost 30 years, however, we have been imposing what is now called the 2030 Agenda, which is a strategy by which we are going to discard a number of energy sources, including coal, oil and nuclear, and we are going to focus only on renewable energies. What's going on? That when the wind doesn't blow or when the sun doesn't shine we have no energy. What are we forced to do? To burn gas, because we have knocked down our thermal power plants and we have been shutting down our nuclear power plants, and gas is at historical maximum prices. For several issues, among others, because the main supplier is Russia, which is progressively closing our tap and rising prices. In this situation where we find those who get kicked in the ass of that supposedly green policy, of that policy of focusing only on some types of energy, it is the Spanish families, the Spanish industry, all the Spanish workers who see how they are losing their jobs or how they care about the products they buy every day to survive. And this policy was precisely motivated by those who are now benefiting from it. We have discovered that these green NGOs - among others, that of the spokesman for Podemos, Mr López de Uralde, president of Greenpeace Spain - were financed by whom? For Russia. Surprise! Europe's main gas supplier. [[Applauds]] It has all the meaning of the world. Turns out that nuclear campaign? No, thank you,'remember?' it was financed by the Gulf countries, the world's leading oil producers and exporters. Could you have known? Obviously, yes. It was clear that they were directing European energy policy according to the interests of a few. And the injured are the Spaniards, also all Europeans, but today we are concerned with the Spaniards. As Russia hired nothing more and nothing less than a German Chancellor, Prime Minister, hired by one of the German oil companies and hired by one of the German gas companies - gentlemen, the real lobby led to its fundamental state - Greta Thunberg receives precisely funding and support from lobbies who do not respond to the interests of the citizens and that 2030 Agenda which is being imposed does not respond to the interests of the Spanish, but responds to the interests of not knowing who and who, moreover, refuse to reveal, we have to give a complete turn to the energy policy of Spain. That is why we bring to Congress today ten very simple measures of absolute common sense. The first, ask the Spaniards which prefer: Reasonable energy prices or Greta Thunberg? What do you prefer? If, as you say, in VOX we are madmen and negatists and we are alone, that referendum that you will convene will win it. They'd take our minds away from us. Do it. I am very afraid that the Spaniards will say no to Greta Thunberg, ask common sense and ask for freedom. Please, second, draw up a rational contingency plan for crises such as the one we are experiencing, a plan b. If the price of gas, on which we depend and with which we produce between 20% and 30% of Spain's energy, continues to fire, what are we going to do? We need an emergency plan. Third, sovereignty. It is clear that we are not going to be completely autonomous, but let us try to be as far as possible, as far as we can, in order precisely to avoid depending on the influence of third parties. Fourth step, repeal climate laws. It is very simple: they focus on the interests of the Spaniards and not on the interests of their lobbies, not on Gazprom's interests, not on Greta Thunberg's interests, not on Gerhard Schröder's interests. Focus on the interests of Spain, Spanish industry and Spanish workers. [[Applauds]] Establish a transitional framework to freeze the rise in CO2 prices. Any industry that emits CO2, either to generate energy or to produce any property, has to pay fees for that CO2 emission and each year these fees are charged by law. Parallel. Parallel. I'm telling you, set up a transitional system. In the meantime, whatever they collect from CO2 dedicate it to lowering the bill, do not do as now, that they get stuck in the pocket for their chiringuitos. In short, we bring you a total of ten measures of absolute common sense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u240	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u241	Please, keep in mind. And, to all of you, move and then report to your voters. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u242	Thank you. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, I have the floor, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion that the VOX Group is bringing today is an example of how seriously our country's energy policy is being taken in this House. In fact, it's practically a copy and stick of the one they brought in three months ago, although eliminating some points and correcting others, to see if this time it hangs. Anyway, welcome to recycling. As we do take this issue seriously, we have amended its motion in several points so that they may at least be subject to discussion. In fact, we propose to eliminate their public consultation so that the Spanish choose the country's energy policy. I do not know whether to say that it is because of how populist we consider this measure because it transfers to the citizens the work that belongs to us, to their public representatives, or simply to remind them that the only two times that the Spanish people have been consulted has been for entry into NATO and to vote for the European constitution, I do not think that much more needs to be said. We have also amended your proposal on the European emissions market and your new attempt to have Spain repeal any agreement established by climate and energy laws. We do not know why this time they do not refer specifically to the Paris Agreement and the European Green Pact, do they still think that these agreements should be abandoned, or do we not know whether the repeal of Articles 9 and 10 of the Climate Change Act is no longer necessary. In any case, I would like to dwell on a matter that the liberals do take seriously and that for VOX seems to be another issue on which to turn their occurrences. Citizens have been defending nuclear energy as a back-up technology since the beginning of the crisis, even before the invasion of Ukraine. Proposing the extension of your useful life or the installation of new power plants at the same point as coal plants only demonstrates that little seriousness with which you address this fundamental issue, being essentially different technologies, with radically different costs of capital and operation and with time frames that have nothing to do with each other. Moreover, the price of coal, by its nature as a greenhouse gas emitter, discards it as a back-up technology. If other European Union countries such as Germany are to resort to coal burning, it is precisely because they have made the mistake in their day, which they are also rethinking now, of shutting down their nuclear power plants too soon. For this reason, in Citizens we actively advocate delaying this timetable for the shutdown of nuclear power plants still operating in Spain, which now account for more than 20% of the electricity generation in our country thanks to the seven reactors that are active at the moment. Coal may be needed in Germany, still very dependent on it, with a thermal power of 42 gigawatts, a total of 21 % of the country. But Spain is a European power in liquefied natural gas regasification capacity, accounting for about 25% of the regasification capacity of Europe as a whole and, in addition, one third of the storage capacity. It should be recalled that coal, apart from emitting three times as much carbon as natural gas, is currently under EU embargo with regard to imports from Russia, which by 2020 accounted for almost half of the total, up to 47 %. This causes their price today to be fired, with Australian coal, the reference one, reaching 390 dollars per ton this summer, when at the beginning of the year it moved in the environment of 160 dollars. We believe that efforts should be directed towards nuclear energy, which is a complex technology that cannot be addressed with occurrences such as the proposals of its vice president in Castile and León, who advocates reopening the Garoña power plant, already in dismantling, and building new reactors. In addition, from an autonomous government. Beyond this curious conception of the state of autonomy - which is so critical of VOX, but which now takes advantage of to be proud of proposals in nuclear matters - the same company that owns the plant has stated that it considers reopening impossible. Therefore, we are witnessing what the spokesperson for Citizens in the Courts of Castile and León, Francisco Igea, has already described as VOX propaganda financed with public money. In the face of the owner's refusal, the question is whether you are going to propose the creation of an autonomous nuclear energy public undertaking. In short, this issue should not be dealt with from an autonomous point of view, nor do we believe that it should be ridiculed by proposals such as reopening a power plant that has been closed and dismantled for ten years. The only real priority is to delay the timetable for the closure of nuclear power plants which are still operating in Spain. In this respect, the amendments we have tabled and we believe that they are perfectly reasonable to be taken up and incorporated into your motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u244	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. Both the question to the third vice president and minister for the ecological transition and the demographic challenge and the very broad content of this motion, which is about energy, raises a number of essential actions in the face of the energy disaster that we Spaniards have suffered as a consequence of the measures that have been taken since Pedro Sánchez arrived in La Moncloa, following the motion of censure to Mariano Rajoy, more than four years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that one of the first steps that the new socialist government took in June 2018 was to throw into the trash the recently completed report that different experts in energy policy, freely proposed by all parliamentary groups of the XII Legislature and also by trade unions and employers, had prepared after almost a year of intense work to determine consensually the energy strategy of Spain in view of its immediate future. Similar contempt of the new government of Sánchez and his minister, Teresa Ribera, and such a waste of time, resources and measures included in that report with analysis and proposals for decarbonization - including those suggested by the Socialist Parliamentary Group - was the banner of departure for a crazy race towards impoverishment and ruin to which we have been dragging since then. As a significant fact, it is enough to point out that in the PSOE-Podemos coalition agreement, the two parties that make up the blue bank pledged to reduce the receipt of light. Today, however, the Spaniards are paying historical prices, which multiply several times the electric fare that was applied to Sánchez's arrival in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the question raised by Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, Asturian MEP for VOX at last week's plenary session, who this afternoon also explained the ten measures he is proposing, highlighted the government's squabbles, shortcomings and inoperations in energy policy. We have been debating proposals throughout the XIV Legislature that have not met the priorities of the Spanish families; nor those of the autonomous, commercial and SMEs, as well as those of the industry. With regard to industry, and more specifically electro-intensive industry, one of the pillars of the Asturian economy and other communities in northern Spain, it should be remembered that they were calling for a return to the interruptibility system as an aid mechanism. Yesterday the Council of Ministers approved what will be called the rapid demand response service, which we will already read the small letter of this energy novelty, often so surprising. Today in Asturias, without going any further, there is a continuing insistence on the application of a tariff which equals the entry of iron and steel products into the European Union from countries which do not have the environmental and labour requirements to which European producers are bound. Today, in Asturias, the manu militari closure of the Lada power plants in Langreo and Soto de la Barca in Tineo has not been accompanied by socio-economic compensatory measures for the affected regions. While in Spain thermal power plants have been closed and blown, new plants have been opened in other European countries and coal is being consumed as never before in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, the closure in 2018 of coal mining - Sánchez and Ribera vias - has meant the renunciation of Spain's energy sovereignty. While here we deprive ourselves of the only autochthonous fossil fuel we have, we buy it on the external market at the price we are set, including the import of Russian mineral in full war after the terrible invasion of Ukraine. With gas the government acted late and badly. To show that Forum has been demanding ten years here, in the Cortes Generales, the exploitation of the regasifier plant in the port of El Musel, in Gijón, and now, in the face of the gas crisis, everything has been hasty and photocalls ministerial to update the facilities and put it into operation. That is, in part, as a warehouse. In short, I will vote in favour of the package of measures they put forward in this motion because its implementation will undoubtedly have an impact on the reduction of the current crazy prices, which cannot be absorbed by many private consumers and companies, and would allow for reversing the fundamentalist decisions that have ended in a plumage with the thermal power plants that ensured backup power and supply, as well as the role of nuclear power in the energy mix. As far as energy policy is concerned, it is a matter of urgency to recover these dark four years lost in the Pedro Sánchez period. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u246	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u247	Thank you, President. Very briefly. I have the feeling - I am going to say that I have confirmed and reaffirmed - that with you in the energy field - and I think that has been said before by another Member - we have debated practically the same thing over and over again: motions that are a totum revolutionum of other motions that you have been presenting throughout the year, not to mention the parliamentary term. One thing I have to recognize, and it is the commitment and impeccability that you have to bring back motions in this area over and over again, even though you are aware that you are not going anywhere, because once again you are going to be rejected by this House, and you know it; proposals that no longer pick up or true occurrences. There are no proposals that truly solve the energy problem; all they raise is, once again, climate negationism, obviate climate risks, propose the abandonment of climate laws and give simplistic solutions. Moreover, in the motion itself you boast of criticizing the climate fanaticism of different governments when - look - you advocate anti-climate fanaticism. It is also surprising that the petitum of the previous motions following calls from the VOX Group - the one on the energy strategy and the one on the energy policy - and of which we are in majority agreement today. There are points that are based and in others the wording changes somewhat, but they remain the same. Therefore, we are faced with repeated and already debated points. As new points, we can talk about the popular consultation that the National Security Council proposes and convene, clearly ineffective proposals that I believe, as has been said here, transfer responsibility for decision-making to another field of play. We are not going to go in and evaluate the rest of the points of the motion because we have actually done it on previous occasions and would repeat ourselves. In short, I think they don't care what they discuss, because their approach is always the same: a populist political pamphlet in which their energy strategy passes by abandoning climate policies and a endless number of proposals without any practical fit. Look, Mr Figaredo, we have no problem portraying ourselves on each of your points. And you know why? Because the people we represent endorse the no to each and every one of their proposals. [[A Member of Parliament: Take it now!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u248	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u249	Seeing this thebeo PNL came to a conviction and it's that VOX is left with time and initiatives because they don't know what to do with them. That's why they do this retreading exercise, with flaps and patches of previous motions, and with occurrences, such as the one you've already been shaved here, that of the unlikely consultation. They talk about energy sovereignty, but they deliberately forget about public enterprises. Would they be willing to support the creation of a public energy generation company? No, of course not. You are in favour of privatizing: privatizing health care, privatizing pensions... Would you be willing to regain public control of Endesa in the hands now of the Italian multinational Enel? There would be greater sovereignty because the energy would be of the State - i.e. of all - and not of a few. But you're not out there. That would make it sovereignty, not with bracelets and fans with the flag. [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala speaks words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] Don't worry. You talk about encouraging renewables. On the other hand, they did not vote in favour of repealing the sun tax. They abstained! In short, this PNL reminds me of a section of the TUBO: The great inventions of Professor Franz of Copenhagen, where straphalar inventions are described, even in a complex way, but with an absolutely banal purpose. For this is an apparently complex GNP, but empty of content and banal as a lettuce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u250	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u251	Thank you, President. Listening to VOX's spokesman, who has reiterated on different occasions that the ten points of this motion resulting from interpellation were points full of sense of common sense, one comes to mind Voltaire's assertion that common sense is the least common sense of the senses. And this, in the VOX world, materializes. I am not going to analyze the ten points, but I am going to do it with the first and the last - the tenth - to see if they are full of common sense. In the first, they propose a consultation to see if the Spanish are in agreement with energy policies. They urge the Government to make this consultation. The remaining points are to repeal, before you know the outcome of the consultation, all the energy policy that you are now submitting to the consultation. Well, don't do the consultation. I, here, common sense don't find much. In any case, with regard to your assertion of consultation, here we do agree, because, what are you afraid of making a referendum? If you know it's not going to go to Catalonia's independence, make a referendum and don't be afraid to make a referendum in Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Mr. Figaredo said. [[Mrs. Romero Vilches: In Spain]] Will you allow a consultation on Catalonia's independence in Spain? [[Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala makes negative gestures]] Oh, not at all. All over Spain? No, neither. [[Several Members: Yes, yes]] Neither, nor... nor... [[Several Members: Yes, yes]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, don't come in... Mr. Bel, one second.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u253	They panic the result in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u254	Mr. Bel...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u255	Hey, hey, hey, hey, In any case, I do not want to forget the tenth point - from the second to the ninth I leave it to you and you will see the result in the votes -. A national water plan - eye here, which surpasses the People's Party - that allows interconnections, not only for the supply of water for the mouth or for irrigation, but here VOX already makes a triple mortal leap: a national water plan that allows the stability of the electrical system through interconnection between basins. Here they have already beat all the records and I common sense do not see it either in the comas or in the dots. Let's vote no one to ten. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u256	Thank you. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u257	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are once again debating what we have already discussed and argued so many times, and I support Mr Bel's and Mr Baldoví's comments. You continue to turn around like the ass to the carrot and shouting to the four winds that science and scientists serve nothing and that your studies, your conclusions, your findings are wrong, are wrong, when not malicious. According to VOX, climate change does not exist, they are inventions of the SocialCommunist Government. Tell the Spanish after this suffocating summer of almost five months. His motion once again shows the model of country they propose, a model of country with short-term policies, without a look and turning its back on scientific evidence. Or that they were children of the People's Party. This motion demonstrates its inability to present solvent and studied proposals. They have become experts in negationism, as they have already done with the COVID-19. Now, they focus on denying a climate crisis that has been knocking on our doors for years. In the next motion, I see you asserting that the Earth is flat and that the Government is hiding it. Data they are likely to know: 74% of Spanish territory is at risk of desertification. In some territories, as I live in, in the Balearic Islands, an increase of up to five degrees in the average annual temperature is expected due to the increase in the temperature of the Mediterranean. AEMET has confirmed that this summer has been the hottest since we have records. Numerous research indicates that Spain will be one of the countries most affected by the climate crisis, causing heat waves and droughts that are more extreme and prolonged over time. But you don't care about the data, it's more than shooting the gas can to see if it bursts. They propose to increase the climate crisis by paralysing the closure of coal thermal power plants or prolonging the operational life of nuclear power plants, a model that is obsolete and unsustainable for our country. You're short-timers. The proposal for these measures only accelerates a process of global warming that goes against our interests as a country, but, above all, against those of our daughters and grandchildren, putting their lives in jeopardy. That's right, patriots are self-proclaimed. I will not remind you who takes the benefit of all this unrighteousness, and it is neither the Spanish nor Spain. If they were patriots, they will bet to set up a public energy company, as we have done in the Balearic Islands, which, through shared self-consumptions, is already providing electricity to families at cost; a public company that should manage the hydraulic electricity companies so that they do not leave entire peoples without water again, in order, without any doubt, to increase the benefits of these to whom you defend. They want to reopen obsolete nuclear power plants against any common sense and endanger the population. Numerous studies indicate that our water resources will suffer significant losses in the coming years due to prolonged droughts. We also know that nuclear power plants require large amounts of water for cooling. Where do you plan to get the water from? It is important to be realistic and take advantage of the natural resources offered by our territory, such as soil or wind. Spain was the second European country to generate more wind and solar energy last year, but our country has the right climate conditions to be the first. This is the path we must take and it seems that you are trying to avoid it. They are pacotilla patriots, who are in favour of the indiscriminate exploitation of the material and intangible resources of the country. You are asking here today - I quote textually - for a plan that employs all the sources and resources available in our country, and this is only to incite the exploitation without contemplating all our resources, which, I remind you, are finite. Let me tell you that they're not patriots, they're just irresponsible. We'll vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u258	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hoyo Juliá.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u259	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost overruns of the gas and electricity bill, the loss of purchasing power from families and the closure of many industries that are very important to our country are not the result of either the accession to the Paris Agreement or the European Green Pact or the 2030 Agenda, which is all about eradicating poverty, improving education and ending the rise in temperatures and its consequences. The energy problems we are experiencing are the result of a very complicated international situation, yes, but they are also the result of having a radical and capricious minister trying to impose his ideology. [[Applauds]] They are also the fruit of the historic clichés and taboos of the Socialist Party, which lead to measures that are absolutely nothing effective. They are also a consequence of Mr Sánchez's lack of dialogue. These are the real reasons why we are in this situation. A year ago, my parliamentary group in this very rostrum presented a proposal for a tax cut in energy. That day we warned that the Government was increasing its revenue and revenue at the cost of emptying the citizens' pockets. There was still no invasion of Russia to Ukraine, but prices were already firing: the price of gas had risen from 14 euros in September 2020 to 58 euros in September 2021 and the price of electricity had doubled in just twelve months. Some spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word, and some who are going to happen to me, said that they are against the measures that we propose; some out of ignorance, others out of ballading to the Government and others, the most radical, because they said that this tax reduction in this area to the only ones that benefited was the big corporations and the upper classes. We are asking for fundamental questions, such as the suspension of the value tax on electricity production, the reduction of VAT on electricity and the increase in the gas reserve in view of the forecast of a price tension in the slot shopping market, and this we did not yet know - we learned two months later - that the erratic diplomatic policy of the Government would close one of the pipelines we had with Algeria, which meant losing 50% of the gas we had at long-term negotiated price. Well, ladies and gentlemen, after the majority of you will vote against our proposals, the government implemented our proposals: the government decided to suspend the tax on electricity production, lower VAT on electricity and increase gas reserves. Subsequently, they also reduced VAT on gas to the minimum required by the European Union and included cogeneration in the gas cap mechanism. I do not need to remind you, because it is quite recent, that this was a proposal by President Feijóo. To your dismay, the Journal of Sessions and the Chamber of Deputies are unappealable, ladies and gentlemen; here you are and show that we have a government that begins by criticizing our proposals, ends by applying them, and, between means, what the Council of Ministers does is to insult my party and insult a former president of the autonomous community, President Feijóo, who has four majorities behind him. [[Applauds]] The People's Party wants to take this opportunity to expose new measures, which we believe are the right ones to overcome this situation. They criticise them today, but they will eventually apply them. Firstly, and with regard to fiscal policy, we must prolong VAT reductions at least until the winter is past and maintain a trend of tax cuts to the generation so that bills are relaxed. Secondly, the government must guarantee the PVPC, especially to small consumers. Thirdly, we need to negotiate a price of the tonne of CO2 emitted more in line with the situation we are experiencing and to study the possibility of taking the price of infra-marginal energies in order to contribute to the relaxation of invoices. And fourthly, it is essential that the government listens to Europe, listens to Europe and implements an energy saving plan...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u260	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u261	... to save - yes, I'm finishing president - in the public administrations, starting with the twenty-three ministries, which, of course, seeing what they do, we could dispense with many of them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u262	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u263	And by the way, President...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u264	Stop it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u265	...,I want to say that I am convinced that at this point most citizens, except Tezanos and members of the government, know who has the proposals, who is prepared to solve the problems...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u266	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u267	...and, of course, it's not Mr. Sanchez, it's Mr. Feijoo. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u268	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u269	President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, where have you been all this time? Let's see if in the end the early Spain comes here and finds out nothing. [[Applauds]] I don't think it'll do you any good at dawn. It is 30 billion euros injected through different measures for families, small and medium-sized enterprises and industries to cushion the rise in prices and to support the social majority of this country; that, since September. I'm going to refresh your memory, because it seems that early Spain doesn't know anything. I will continue to say what the Government has done at this time, of course without obviating the difficulties and circumstances at which we find ourselves. Do you remember the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, Mr Figaredo? You voted no. Do you remember the minimum living income and its rise? You voted no. Do you remember the rise in pensions according to the CPI? You voted no. [[Applauds]] The increase in the amount of scholarships? You voted no. The gratuity of public transport allowances? You voted no. The reform of the electricity market to limit the price of gas? Twenty cents per liter of fuel? You voted no. Is the tax on banking and electricity, which, due to the energy situation caused by the cruel and unjust war, are having extraordinary benefits? You've voted no. Ladies and gentlemen, what Spaniards do you say you're defending? What Spaniards do they defend? Perhaps they defend the same Spaniards as Moreno Bonilla in Andalusia, who have a heritage of more than 700 000 euros. [[Applauds]] Those are the Spaniards you defend. Make it clear here. Make it clear. What freedom do you allude to in the motion we bring here today? What freedom? I'll tell him. You defend the freedom of those who can pay for it. That is the freedom you defend. [[Applauds]] The Socialists are very clear, ladies and gentlemen, on whose side we stand. We are on the side of the teachers, the nurses, the masons, the engineers, the fruit trees, the people of the sea and the people of the countryside; neither did they support the law of the food chain and come here and tell stories, which they invent. [[Applauds]] We are on the side of all the people who get up every day to go to work, because they live from their work. We are on the side of the workers and the middle classes of this country, and that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is where public resources go. That's where public resources go. Let's see if, in the end, it's not going to be bad faith, it's going to be insolvency, and you haven't realized that the 0.2% that Moreno Bonilla benefits is so few people. Let's see if they didn't know that they were very little benefited by them and that they are also rich. They didn't find out. [[Laughter]] They laughed when the President of the Government proposed to get out of the crisis in a just and sustainable way; you laughed, and there are the European Green Pact and the funds associated with it. They laughed when the President of the Government proposes to increase gas reserves and diversify purchases, and there it is, it is a reality in Europe. They laughed with the gas cap, with the Iberian exception, and there they are in Brussels trying to change the pricing of energy. Mr. Figaredo, do you know why? Because it's unfair, it's unfair. [[Mr. Figaredo Álvarez-Sala: Sure, that's why!]] So keep laughing, because as long as you laugh - you have a little laugh - the government is working for the future of Europe, which is our future. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the heirs of those who put the tax on the sun, of those who stopped the development of renewable energies, of those who raised the bill for light. They are heirs of the People's Party, come here and allude to chiringuitos. Yes, Your Honor. You, VOX, came out of the People's Party bars. [[Applauds]] That's where he came out and they'll be back. [[Mr. Figaredo Álvarez-Sala: Do you want us to report it?]] And let's talk about nuclear, Mr. Figaredo. [[Mr. Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, making the handcuffed gesture: That's how it's going to be!]] Let's talk about nuclear. Mr. Figaredo, it's up to me, let's talk nuclear. Is the price of energy in France cheaper today than in Spain? Is the biggest nuclear park cheaper today? No, no, So don't lie, Mr. Figaredo, don't lie. Chernobyl, does that ring a bell? Fukushima, Zaporiyia. Does Zaporiyia ring a bell, which is more recent? It is the largest nuclear power plant in Europe used as a weapon of war. Don't you think that's why it's just not worth taking that risk? The referendum they want to do so in those places where they say they want to build two, three or four nuclear power plants, and ask the neighbors if they want them next to their villages and next to their cities. Ask the neighbors. [[Applauds]] What is it you don't like about the 2030 Agenda, Your Honor? What does it propose to work to reduce poverty, hunger in the world, work for the health and well-being of all, gender equality, decent work, justice or peace? What don't you like about the 2030 Agenda? Well, I'll tell him. They do not like a strong welfare state, because that is the basis of true freedom, and to expand it, strengthen it...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u270	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u271	...and consolidate it the Government of Spain and, in my group, the Socialists too. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Figaredo, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u273	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u274	Thank you. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on progress in the development of the loss of the electric and connected vehicle and its impact on a strategic sector for the Spanish economy as a whole. [[File number 173/000168]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u275	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the progress in the development of the PERTE of the Electric and Connected Vehicle and its impact on a strategic sector for the Spanish economy such as automotive. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Cortés Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today we are discussing a subsequent motion of inquiry into the PAST of the Electric and Connected Vehicle that my colleague Elvira made to the Minister of Industry last week. As happened to another partner of ours, TristanaMoraleja, in another appearance of Vice President Calviño, there for the month of May, none of the questions that were raised to her were answered. [[Applauds]] By the way, we should rethink what appearances and interpellations are for if then, in the end, the ministers answer nothing. That's where I leave the reflection. Mrs Maroto's speech was one in which we were able to see what many of us feared, and it is that this government is blocked, paralyzed and hysterical. I suppose it is because of the climate of social discontent that we can see on the streets and, also, because the latest polls do not give the current government very good prospects. Look, Minister Reyes Maroto devoted seven out of the ten minutes of her first intervention to insulting and criticizing the People's Party, when she should have devoted herself to answering those questions about those more than reasonable doubts about the execution of the PEST of the electric vehicle. And of the five minutes he used in his replica shift, he used half, in this case already, to insult President Feijoo. The rest were just vagueness. The data you provided only show that Mrs Maroto has a complicated relationship with the truth, with solvency and, above all, with the effectiveness of European funds. [[Applauds]] This would be nothing new, indeed, but let us remember that we are talking about the automotive sector in Spain, a sector that employs more than 1.8 million Spaniards and accounts for 7.7% of the national gross domestic product. In the People's Party, as an alternative to government we are, we could not stand idly by or resign ourselves, like other political groups. That is why we have brought this motion today as a matter of urgency, which I hope will have the majority support of this House, since, in the light of the results of the convening of this PART and the current implementation rates, you will agree with me that well, what is well said, is not going well. Although the claims of the three rejected projects are lacking, the provisional balance sheet cannot be more disastrous, with implementation in these two years reaching 26% of the grant line and 13% of the loan line. It's not to be exactly happy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is urgent to adapt the new calls of the PERTE of the Electric Vehicle and Connected to the reality of the Spanish business fabric. It is necessary to re-establish the basis for them to be able to respond to the real needs of the automotive industry; that is, following a process of dialogue with the sector and with the autonomous communities. It is necessary to extend the deadlines for implementation, because after more than two years of delay the time you give for the implementation of these projects is totally insufficient. It is necessary to reduce the obstacles and requirements that have led to long-term national and international companies in the country having resigned or not even submitted to the call. And if we really want SMEs to have access to aid, it is necessary to change the requirement for initial guarantees; a requirement which, in fact, excludes SMEs, since they are required guarantees even before they have been selected, which makes it impossible for them to obtain the approval of the banks. We also call for officials not to be pressured and for them to be allowed to work to respect the basic rules of the procedure for guaranteeing competition and equal treatment in calls; for the verbal incontinence of some ministers who announce millions of awards to be avoided as far as possible - I know it is difficult - before they have been resolved or even before the call itself. This is particularly serious, because it affects the image of seriousness and rigour that we must have vis-à-vis other European partners and, above all, vis-à-vis the European Commission itself. [[Applauds]] And finally, transparency. This is aid to a strategic sector of the country, which will also generate a debt to be paid by future generations. The Spanish deserve to be regularly informed of the implementation of the plan and of the real impact in terms of growth and employment. On the other hand, if we really want an electrical, connected and resilient automotive sector, as the slogan of the funds says, we cannot tolerate the continued production of images of thousands of cars parked without ending because of the lack of microprocessors. It would also be crazy if, in order to supply us with essential raw materials for the construction of batteries and other electronic components, we were to remain dependent on third countries that are triggering prices and generating tensions in supply chains solely for geopolitical interests. We cannot afford tomorrow closed battery factories due to lack of components for their manufacture. Therefore, this PERTE should be accompanied by two more ensuring the national supply of these basic raw materials and of the microprocessors needed in the car manufacturing process. I tell you about a PART that guarantees the manufacture in Spain of the microprocessors necessary for the automotive. I am aware that there are expressions of interest from very solvent companies, which have made proposals in this regard. I also talk to you about a Park that reactivates mining for the exploitation of the deposits of these fundamental raw materials that exist in Spain and that are not being exploited today. This PERTE should also include the installation of mineral processing plants in the area, thereby enhancing wealth and local employment. In this way, the supply of electronic components for automotive and battery plants is guaranteed. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, these are the measures and proposals that the People's Party is presenting to you today for debate and approval. They have no doubt that they are proposals and measures that will make the automotive sector in Spain a sustainable, resilient and future sector. Think, if only for once, of the 1.8 million Spaniards working in the automotive sector and approve this motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u277	Thank you. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bustamante Martín is speaking for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u278	Good afternoon now. Thank you, President. The Spanish car sector in a context of general uncertainty is going through a particular crisis as a result of the shortage of key supplies. Production stops in assembly plants are frequent and are also having consequences throughout the network of suppliers. This affects whole regions, whose socio-economic livelihood depends to a large extent on the activity of this sector. We understand that unemployment is not only caused by the semiconductor crisis, but is also affected by the shortage of raw materials and energy prices as a result of the war. Therefore, in this context of the prolongation of the war and of sanctions policies by the European Union and NATO, a situation is being generated that also has negative effects on the peoples of Europe. I meant it on the International Day of Peace, which is today, precisely. The car industry in Spain is the seventh largest in the world, the second largest in the European Union, behind Germany. It employs 9% of the labour force and accounts for 11% of GDP and around 15% or 20% of exports. However, as a problem, it should be noted that it is a sector that is highly concentrated and where nine of the top ten invoicing companies are of foreign capital, with a strong external projection. This is a weakness in terms of industrial sovereignty and planning capacity, as decision-making centres are abroad and respond to the private interests of multinationals. However, in terms of employment and GDP, we are talking about an industry that is strategic and therefore it is necessary to address the transformation towards the manufacture of clean vehicles through strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation. In this regard, we do not share the motion of the People's Party, which has tried in Brussels to ensure that European funds do not reach our country. Last week the Minister of Industry gave right here the authorization number of payments worth 48 billion, of the 7 billion that correspond to this year, almost 70%. In any case, we insist that how important it is as the way it is spent. In this sense, the PARTE is well designed and those companies that want to apply for some type of aid have to comply with the criteria set out in the regulatory bases. It's not about giving blank checks. Companies will receive aid, but in return they have to ensure stable employment and respect for the social and environmental rights of the territories. Therefore, making the criteria more flexible in line with the People's Party would mean spending more, but worse, or at least with less return to society. If the criteria are changed, what we have raised in the Committee on Industry are a number of questions which are fundamental and which your group has not supported, such as the maintenance of current levels of employment, that the manufacture of electric vehicles is complete in Spain, from the manufacture of batteries - greeting to the battery project in Sagunto - to the final assembly, to ensure the entire value chain, or that the templates and trade unions also participate in the elaboration of projects. In fact, on 1 December we adopted in the Committee on Industry, on a proposal from the United Nations, a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to put forward conditionality mechanisms in the financial support instruments associated with European funds in order to strengthen the viability of industrial projects in the medium and long term, so that they contribute not only to job creation in national territory, but also to ensuring a framework of good working conditions in industry and in all activities related to industrial activity. With this approach, we have registered an amendment with the Socialist Party that includes continuing to support the strategic sectors of our country, such as the automotive, agri-food, naval and technological industries, renewable energy sources or health; continuing the deployment of the strategic project for the recovery and economic transformation of the electric and connected vehicle; strengthening collaboration with autonomous communities and trade union and business representatives; maintaining dialogue with social actors through the car table, which was a demand of class unions, or regularly reporting on the implementation of the PETE and its impact in terms of growth...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u279	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u280	...and job creation. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u281	Thank you. Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u282	Thank you, President. Before we talk about the loss of cars, let us see where we come from, because the deterioration of a strategic sector and job-creating sector cannot be understood without the damage caused by this government. This sector suffers from a government that does not leave a tax behind. It has suffered the consequences resulting from a state of unconstitutional alarm - it was declared as such thanks to the appeal lodged by VOX - which curtailed rights and freedoms. Thus, from one day to the next, he forced many factories, businesses and businesses to close, prohibiting many Spaniards from working without indemnifying them for it. Many have remained in the way and others are beginning to pay for the terrible consequences of the worst government at the worst time, which in the face of its incompetence only resorts to the triangle Putin, virus, Franco. No one is surprised by the criticisms expressed by the sector as to the slowness of the processing of this PART and for excluding part of the value chain from it. The sector is going through a critical moment: it faces the fall in car sales, shortages and strong price increases in parts and components, energy and transport, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, it is at stake that Spain has an important role at European and global level, but we still hope that this LOSS will be resolved. On Monday the minister announced that the government will publish resolutions on the PERTE projects in early October. I am confident that this statement will be complied with and that it will not occur as with the special register for LOSS, which took a year longer than the deadline set. Months ago the representatives of the sector warned of the slowness that the Government was having in the development of PERALTE, and VOX recorded initiatives, because we understand that the agile channelling of these funds is as necessary as the implementation of additional measures that support the industrial transformation, an industrial transformation that must be planned with common sense, and not be a crazy race towards the criminalization of our industry and decarbonization, with precipitated deadlines imposed by globalist agendas, which reduce competitiveness to other countries that are much more polluting, a nightly ideology peculiar to the 2030 Agenda, shared and defended by PP and PSOE. Yes, Spain must be a leader in this sector and protect employment, but it is not common sense to bend to the imposition of policies subject to climate fanaticism. Why don't you ask the Spaniards what they prefer, if their fanaticism is to be greener than anyone else and without looking at the damage that comes or a gradual transition, which prioritises the interests of the Spaniards? Points of recharge are missing, the bill of light is fired, the Spanish families are getting poorer every day, and from their offices they intend to impose the electric car, which is insecure for many compatriots. Sanchez will take off his tie, but he has put the rope on the neck of many Spaniards. [[Applauds]] This Government has the counted days and should call elections to return the voice to the Spanish people. They say Sanchez has a plan. Which one, destroy Spain? They say Feijoo has a plan. Which, assuming the Socialist Party's misconceptions, does not comply with the law, stating that they have no interest in seeing in prison those convicted of ERE fraud in Andalusia - 700 million who have stolen from us Andalusians - PP and PSOE are more than the same. [[Applauds]] By the way, a PP who does not accept our amendments, who asks to push this PAST; is it that they like to copy. It is time to confront the urgent needs of Spain, which are not what this progressive consensus says. To do this Santiago Abascal does have a plan, VOX has a plan: our agenda Spain, which is not for 2030 to 2050, is for today, to regain our sovereignty and the reins of our future, so that families are at the center of all policies. It's time for Spain to decide. It's time for freedom and prosperity. It's time for the alternative, not the alternation. And it's time for millions of Spaniards who trust VOX to raise their voice loudly, because they know we're going to rebuild everything you've destroyed. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u283	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Soler Mur has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u284	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a special greeting to the neighbours of Viveros, who are with us this afternoon. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I certainly understand your position. I assure you that I understand her; I do not share her, but I understand her despair. The pandemic has arrived and you thought that such a serious economic situation, which affects the Spanish daily, would be a major wear and tear for the government. But the government came and launched the ERTE, the ICOs, the aid to the self-employed, the rise of the minimum living income, the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, and, with the collective effort of the majority of the Spaniards, we managed to overcome the worst of the pandemic. Then came the war of Putin, the invasion of Ukraine and with it the energy crisis. But again the Spanish Government went to Europe to ask for the support of the Union and we managed to lower energy rates, the Iberian exception, we lower taxes, we support the Spanish to buy petrol, especially the transporters, especially the families, especially the students, and, among all, we are fighting and overcoming this energy crisis. They once again thought this was their time, but it wasn't. They always side with the crisis, against the Government, and never with the Government, against difficult situations. That is the constant attitude of the People's Party. And now they come to criticize the electric vehicle PART. And what do they propose? They argue that the procedure is not right, that it is not right. I tell you that the procedure is open, that it is competitive, that it is transparent and that all the information, moreover, has it on the ministry's website, and therefore all the legal requirements have been met. Stop making veils of suspicions; if you have anything to report, go to court and stop making veils of suspicions. [[Applauds]] They also plan for it to be designed, for it to be done again, and for another new PERTE to be carried out, when we are about to award what we have. And they say that it is done for dialogue with the sector, that this is what they want, but it is obvious that already in December 2020 the expressions of interest were made and that all the economic sectors and especially all the automotive companies were able to say what they were thinking about this programme. And they also say that more information is being given, when information is constantly being given by the Government. What's important here? The important thing is that $24 billion will be invested: 4300 by the public administration and 19,700 by private companies. The important thing is that already the companies have started to operate and the giant factory of Seat, Volkswagen in Sagunto, the Renault manufacturing project, that Mercedes Benz will make an electric monovolumen, the revision project in Navalmoral of the Mata, the project Thesis of Stellantis in Aragon. That is the reality; companies are working and you want to paralyze the plan. [[Applauds]] And the reality is that in this country, right now in Spain, of the cars that are manufactured, 11.2% are electric, and three years ago it was 0.4%; that is the reality. The reality is that 13 projects have been presented to this LAST, which you want to paralyze. That's the reality and you want to stop this. You sabotaged the European funds; you talk about the image of Spain, but I don't know what image you support if you boycotted the funds. You voted against the actual decree establishing the LES, against the labour reform necessary to receive the funds, against the reform of the pension system, against the law on vocational training, against the general budgets, which are fundamental to the implementation of the funds. You have been permanently boycotting any action by the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] And while you guys are boycotting, what's the reality? The reality is that the first country to receive the first disbursement of European funds was Spain, the reality is that the only country that has received the second disbursement is Spain - European money, of course - and the reality is that there is someone who has no PSOE card, which we know, and has congratulated Spain on the management of the funds, and is called Ursula Von der Leyen, who is the President of the European Commission. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP, you continue to work on the PP campaign - by the way, read the CIS in the last survey - that we will work for the Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u285	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. I speak in support of this motion by the People's Parliamentary Group, which I consider necessary for the Government to receive guidance from the Congress of Deputies for the development of the Strategic Project for the Economic Recovery and Transformation, PART, of the electric vehicle. It would be a disaster for Spain to prolong the crisis in the automotive sector and to waste the very important resources derived from this strategic project. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a black day for the Spanish and Asturian industry because just a few hours ago the fateful announcement by Duro Felguera of applying a collective dismissal and dismissing workers, in an undetermined number but in any case anticipating personal and family dramas, and again highlights the siren songs of the Ministry of Industry headed by Mrs Maroto Illera. In the crisis of Duro Felguera, a flag company and leader of the national industry, we summarize the socialist inability to reverse the consequences of the crisis that threatens and threatens the future and industrial employment in Spain. Place From this rostrum to the government of Pedro Sánchez to avoid the ERE and the partial collapse of Duro Felguera, giving use to the important public aids injected in the last year 2021, of the order of 120 million euros granted through SEPI, to restructure the company and generate employment, not to destroy it. Just a few days ago in the General Political Orientation Debate in Asturias, the President of the Principality, Mr.Barbón, presumed to open new horizons to the company. Today what has been opened in Duro Felguera is a labor chasm, another labor chasm, and always with the socialists in the middle. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the car PAST is a test of fire for the economy as a whole. There is no doubt that a substantial part of the national economy orbits around the sector; in fact, Spain ranks second in Europe in the manufacture of vehicles and ninth in the world, so the transition to the electric and connected vehicle must be done with restraint. And that is the focus of the different measures advocated by Mr Cortés Carballo, which is summarized in the four points contained in the operative part of this parliamentary initiative, which I consider to be more than relevant because they call on the Government to take a series of measures to redesign, reinforce, comply with law and transparency both in the calls and in the implementation of the strategic project itself. We are also faced with a priority which is not only related to the car sector, but is also vital and vital for the whole industry and the multitude of services that revolve around the automotive sector, involving millions of jobs. Thus, the Asturian example to point out that a few days ago ArcelorMittal's CEO in Europe has warned of the serious dangers to the Community steel industry, which would drag many sectors, including the automotive sector. Ladies and gentlemen, industry is staggering and the government continues to install itself in inaction, conformism and reporting. It was disappointing to hear here last week the Minister of Industry's open answer to the questions correctly raised by the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Rodríguez, in a matter in which the Government's action to ensure competition and equal treatment in the various calls of the PERTE has been called into question. That is why it is also important to open a call for the PERTE of the electric vehicle, to take account of the needs of the automotive industry and to listen to the autonomous communities in which there is historical implementation of the sector. Although the Government scorns it with its actions, strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation have been designed to act as a driving force for productive and economic growth and to generate employment and strengthen the competitiveness of the Spanish economy and must foster public-private collaboration, giving way to participation by the different administrations. In short, the concerns raised in the inquiry are reasonable, because, at a time of concern and uncertainty over the very costly consequences of the energy policy that is sweeping the whole of society, the risk of taking advantage of the Automotive PART forces us to be very attentive to its implementation. That is why the measures put forward by the Group of the European People's Party in this motion, which I will vote in favour, are essential. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u287	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u288	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing the motion resulting from urgent inquiry that was addressed last week to the Minister of Industry regarding the loss of the electric vehicle, a motion in which it is requested to redesign the VEC PART to carry out a new call that can respond - they say - to the needs of the automotive industry after a process of dialogue with the sector and the autonomous communities. It also calls for compliance with procedural rules guaranteeing competition and equal treatment in calls, preventing opportunistic manifestations and regularly reporting on the implementation of the plan and its impact in terms of growth and job creation. Of this project of the PERTE VEC, of course, it must be said that it is novel and also complex, because it is structured around the figure of the consortia and also by the weight that the SMEs must have in it and the volume of investments it implies. On the basis of this premise, that it is a complex project that has generated many expectations, the one that has remained a desert percentage is worrying, but it must be recognized that it cannot be attributed to that design, which perhaps and to the past should have been otherwise, but also to the adverse circumstances that we are experiencing as a result of the Putin war, a situation of uncertainty that is causing investment decisions to slow down over time. Although it seems a contradiction, the truth is that at first it must also be recognized that the LOST has led to investment decisions that might not have been made until a few years later, and I refer to the resolutions. With regard to the small amount of the motion, the part which says that the procedural rules of competition and equality are respected has not just been shared, because there is a basis for calling for the award criteria and it is the technicians who carry out these appraisals of the projects, so that we do not question that assessment or much less that which does not comply with the procedural rules. Moreover, it is somewhat contradictory to criticise the rejection of three proposals for failing to comply with the minimum structure of the PERT, when they also criticise the non-compliance with procedural rules. I do not think that there can be any doubt about the procedure, because they are doing the administration and the technicians working on it a little favour. Nor do we share the part of the Party's redesign as there are companies that have already worked to meet and adapt to all the requirements and a redesign with perhaps more lax conditions - because they do not say so - could constitute an aggravation for those that actually meet and have met the criteria set in response to the calls and are surely stricter. In addition, companies that have not been awarded or have been awarded in amounts lower than those requested have submitted allegations to justify those elements that the technicians have considered insufficient and will have to know what the final decision is, and perhaps, once this is known, it will be time to make a further assessment and take action, if any. The fact is that it is also essential that the projects presented begin to be developed, which do not take too long, precisely in order to have an impact on the economy, on employment, on the productive fabric and on the whole value chain. As for the periodic reporting of the implementation of the PERTE, we certainly agree, because it is important to know the implementation and its impact, because the information is essential to use these funds properly and, therefore, to correct in its transformative objective of the economy and the productive apparatus and also to overcome those obstacles in its rapid and agile implementation. Amendments have been tabled to this motion and we will therefore wait to see what the proposing group that has tabled the motion decides to establish a position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u289	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Cortés, I must tell you that in Citizens we have no objection to the content of your motion. If anything, I would simply like to remind you that you are talking and demanding from the Government precisely the greatest transparency, clarity and objectivity in both the information and the processes of allocating European funds to projects, in this case the PERTE of the electric vehicle, which are contained in the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience; transparency, objectivity and clarity that we could have had much better guaranteed, of course, if VOX in its day, in January 2021, had not voted abstention from that decree which would have allowed precisely greater control by the opposition. In any case, we agree that the electric vehicle PART is a necessity, an opportunity and a project that is of great importance because of the importance that any effort, in collaboration with the private sector, with businesses and the public as a whole, is at present necessary to move forward on issues such as mobility, environmental protection, energy saving and sustainability; in short, that, with all these concepts, joint action should be taken with regard to this project of PERTE, in particular. We will support this motion in the conviction that the People's Group is not asking for anything strange, nothing illogical. This motion calls on the Government to do something that we share with the liberals, to ensure the attendance and equal treatment of applicants for aid, in accordance with Royal Decree Law 36/2020, to activate dialogue with the sector and the autonomous communities to complete the allocation of funds in successive and future calls, to seek to meet the needs of the automotive industry and to inform in any case the execution of the funds and the impact that such execution will have in terms of employment and growth. We must recognise, Mr Soler, from the Socialist Group, that the Group of the European People's Party is making you a political marketing roadmap in every way. I cannot understand the reason for the rejection in your case of the motion because I do not see the reasons why the Socialist Party or the United Nations We can refuse not to do things right with European funds and in this case with the PART of the electric vehicle. They are asking for dialogue, competition and equality, and you are even invited to make this management known and sold. In any case, it was surprising the debate that we had last week between Mrs Rodríguez Herrer and Minister Maroto, who, rather than a debate, almost seemed like a caress, in an absolutely timely inquiry and to which the Government simply replied with a very childish 'bad Feijóo'. Beyond the fights and barbaric debates between the government and some opposition group, we certainly do care what has happened so that the third recipient in European funds of this PART, the multinational Ford, has given up nothing less than 106 million euros for the development of the electric car. We are concerned that this company announced less than a month ago results in 2021 with losses of 35 million euros and a decrease in sales of 17%, so it is difficult to understand that in the end they have given up aid. We understand that the good words to the government and the government to the company really cover some other situation, possibly of design of the PERTE itself, which is why, of the 2975 million initially programmed, have been awarded, albeit provisionally, only 703 million, and of those 703 million fall 106 million from this American multinational, and still remain to be applied 21,66 million, almost 73% of them; this is not logical. We recall that there were already criticisms from the automotive sector on a basis of the call that took a long time to be approved, that were modified because they were insurmountable by virtually all the candidates and that they have possibly over-restricted the possibility of being assumed. It is a pity that we do not have funding to carry out an electric vehicle project and everything that this means at the moment, but it is regrettable that, with almost EUR 3 billion for this objective, we are beginning to think at this stage that we are not going to be able to implement all these funds, and this is something we have warned many times about. Under these conditions, the redefinition of PERTE and its conditions is not only an opportunity, but an obligation for the Government, so we do not understand an obtuse position of sustenance and not an amendment and that this leads us to absurdity. That is why we simply hope that the Government at this point will take a reasonable position and address the situation and needs of the sector from the perspective of ensuring, yes, the best and greatest success of PERTE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u291	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u292	Thank you, Mr. President. The government's management of the PERTE of the electric vehicle has excluded the automotive sector in Galicia. Indeed, early announcements on this issue call into question competitive competition for access to funds. That is why the BNG advocates another model, one that prevents this instrument from being reduced to a way of transferring public money to large transnational corporations with million-dollar profits. But that is neither in the concern nor in the proposal of the People's Party. Nor is there any talk of conditionality to ensure that resources are devoted to modernizing productive systems, reducing external dependence or shielding employment with decent conditions. The People's Party intends to review them more advanced for dialogue with the autonomous communities, but it does not demand a real system of co-governance, in which in our case the Xunta de Galicia, the Galician Government can have a real decision-making capacity in the projects and promote others, apart from the interests of large companies. In our view, it is urgent to put in place a genuine industrial policy that is committed to innovation and productive diversification, and to shield the continuity of strategic activities for our country, for Galicia, in this case in the automotive sector, which is one of the fundamental pillars of the scarce industry that, unfortunately, we have. We understand that this is what the Government should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u294	Thank you, President. The explanatory statement for this motion describes in detail the importance of the automotive sector in Spain, its weight in the gross domestic product, in quality employment and in the internationalization of the productive fabric; a sector representing a high percentage of total exports, an innovative sector. We agree with some of the points to which the Government is urged, such as the request for a new call, or the need to report regularly on the implementation of the VEC PEST and its impact. We believe that a new call for proposals is essential for a number of reasons and that it should be agile, to which the maximum number of companies representing the sector, especially SMEs, which are the backbone of our business fabric, can be chosen. At the outset, the EUR 700 million granted on a provisional basis does not reach 25% of the budget of the comprehensive line of action for the development and manufacture of electric and connected vehicles. If we subtract the EUR 700 million granted provisionally from the total of EUR 2975 million, there are more than EUR 2200 million in grants granted by the European Union which are currently not allocated, and which cannot and should not be wasted. For the well-being of a society it is essential that the economy is based on a high-value-added and technologically advanced sector, and the automotive industry is one of them. Pensions and the welfare state cannot be claimed to be paid with a low-wage-based productive fabric. That is why I believe that we should bet on sectors that solvably credit these values. And because of the weight of this industry, since 11.4% of the State's gross value added is in the automotive sector, at a time when a technological change is taking place that will mark which companies will lead and will therefore have more chance of surviving, this aid cannot be wasted. I would not like to finish my speech without showing our concern about the low implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. In June, according to IGAE data, it is 16% compared to the final budget allocations, well below 50%, which would be logical, and in the specific case of the Ministry of Industry it is 18.3%. We will follow the evolution of the text and if we accept the amendments tabled to establish our sense of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u295	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u296	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. European funds are a real opportunity to transform a productive fabric that is polluting, inefficient and unequal. How we take advantage of this opportunity will therefore mark the future of the new generations. To implement them successfully - we have said it many times - an effective decentralization is necessary not only of its management, but also of its decision-making capacity, because it is the territories that know its reality and its needs best. It makes no sense to impose criteria from a Madrid office. Therefore, in order for these billions to be fully exploited and to meet the main challenges facing the productive model, such as digitisation or energy transition, we really need to believe that of the subsidiarity principle. We find at least the belligerence of the People's Party on this issue suspicious, a party that has on so many occasions shown its profoundly centralistic and uniformizing character. We can hardly trust the Gürtel party or the rotating doors. In view of the fact that the Spanish State is on the podium, when not the first, in the rankings of little efficiency and little exploitation in general of the European funds, governs who governs; in addition to the fact that this dubious honour was already held by the PP governments, it announced to them our intention to abstain on this point, linked to the compromise expressed that we expect from the spokesman of the PSOE with an improvement that we consider essential for this and for all the PARTS and, in fact, in the tramitology of the European funds in general. We believe, given the low implementation of European funds and the low absorption of the productive fabric, that we must rethink how we are managing these resources. For example, we propose that the unallocated amount of each PARTE may be distributed among the autonomous communities on the basis of their industrial weight instead of the State having to make a new call, with all that implies. In this way, this new call would conform to the reality of each territory, because, as we have already said, it is the territories that know their reality best and those that know their own industrial fabric best. If you know that this is the formula for the use of European funds Next Generation, apply. Given the current context, it is more urgent than ever to miss this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u297	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Cortés Carballo, do you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u298	No, no, The vote will take place on their terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-21-CD220921.u299	All right, you'll vote on your terms. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. The meeting was suspended. It was five and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
