ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Miguel Ángel Bustamante Martín, he asked Don Ezequiel García Nieto if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u2	For democracy, for social services, for feminism and for peace, yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u3	Thank you very much. Don Ezequiel García Nieto has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning the debate on the opinion of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2023. We begin with the joint debate on Titles I and II. In defence of amendments, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you for a little silence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u5	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are beginning this debate and, at least from my parliamentary group, we are doing so by exercising political responsibility which is nothing more than telling the truth to the Spaniards about this law. And it is true not because I say it, not because my parliamentary group says it; it is true because the data are irrefutable: the data from the Bank of Spain, the AIReF, Funcas, the International Monetary Fund or BBVA Research, among others. These budgets are born addicted - said the AIReF -, notice notable deficiencies - said the AIReF -, are based on unrealistic macro data - said also the AIReF -. The Government makes these budgets just the opposite of how budgets have to be made. The government does not depart from forecasts of income and growth, it does not; it takes and says: what did I want to have to satisfy my ideological, particular and electoral interests?, and, from there, elaborates the forecasts of income that it will need and takes them out to where there is no. The general budgets of the State, these general budgets for the coming year, I am sorry to say, have no remedy for looking at them from where we look at them. They are irresponsible accounts that will eventually have perverse consequences for this country, struggling to suffer in the future a level of cuts and budgetary rigidity that mortgaged several generations. We have the reasons to oppose it, but if only one of the items is to be chosen, it is the one for pensions. We know that we are the only ones who dare to put this on the table and today we say it again: spending 40% of the country's budget on financing the public pension system is unsustainable and profoundly unfair to the young people of our country. This, ladies and gentlemen, is to treat the Spaniards as adults and not as mere depositors of votes in an ballot box, because of course we would like to be able to raise pensions by 8.5%, but it is not the most responsible and obeys a single maximum: to obtain votes. A linear rise - which seems here, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, which has forgotten you about the progressive issue - of pensions without undertaking a single reform in the system that guarantees their sustainability is lying to the citizens. We need reformist policies in favour of birth, youth, employment promotion, which support tomorrow's pensions, not an indiscriminate rise, as these budgets show, which means an additional 20 billion, an additional 20 billion because they add to the budget line of EUR 190 billion, almost half of the budget. What we allocate to pensions, ladies and gentlemen, is twice what is allocated to the ministries of Justice, Defence, Interior, Education, Industry, Health, Science, Social Rights and Equality all together, twice what is allocated to these nine ministries is what is allocated to pensions. The truth is that with everything that has been explained so far, there are sufficient reasons for my parliamentary group to vote that it does not, but I would like to use this rostrum to criticize once again the anti-democratic forms with which the Government treats this House, the Legislative Power, and I do not speak, ladies and gentlemen, who support the Government, of the prerogative of the Government to accept certain amendments - of course, it is a constitutional prerogative that we respect - I am speaking of the ideological and partisan roll that leads the Government, for example, to veto citizens a measure to increase funding for the sick affected by thalidomide and not to do the same, for example, with the Euskal Group Herria Bildu, an identical proposal that we are told is inappropriate, vetoed and considered not to be debated because it is proposed by citizens, but if Bildu proposes it is possible, because we all know that 'in Bildu have always been flagged on the defence and protection of the lives of all citizens'. I am talking about the shame of having recognized by the Government itself without redundancy that the assessment of vetoes, far from being based on technical criteria, in budgetary adequacy, would be based on subjective assessments of whether or not the proposer submitted an amendment to all budgets, turning the Constitution into wet paper. And I hope that your government ladies and gentlemen will be just as clear as I am today and will tell us why of the more than 5,000 amendments recorded by all the groups in this House you have only found the proposals by your nationalist or regionalist partners beneficial to the citizens. We have been vetoed amendments for a plan to prevent suicide, to increase IPREM, to lower VAT on basic products, to combat trafficking in persons, to prevent forest fires, to implement the Austrian backpack or to reform the autonomous financing system. Tell us why, but without the euphemisms employed by the spokesman for Podemos, Mr Guijarro, in the Commission, saying that the vetoes depended on the logical human factor to veto amendments from the opposition - without turning red or nothing - a government party accepting totalitarianism and dealing with general state budgets without the apex of technical appreciation, were an immunological factor. I believe that I have sufficiently explicitly defended our position as opposed to these budgets. They are accounts with unrealistic and unconfirmed forecasts that leave young people in oblivion, who lack essential reforms for our country, who mortgage half of the resources by financing unproductive expenditure, who break the pension system by pure electoral calculation, who are born out of a sectarian and totalitarian parliamentary process, and, above all, who are the result of the infamous Government's infancy of Catalan separatists with the reforms of the crime of sedition and embezzlement. Thank you very much, President. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just started a plenary session which is expected to last 40 hours. I ask you to remain silent. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we start the final debate on the general state budgets for 2023. My group will rise, represented by dozens of colleagues, to defend the 2400 amendments we have tabled, including to defend all those that the government vetoed passing the roll. We will defend all of them, because in them is our alternative government program, others will not be able to say the same. Others decided not to amend or participate in the debate in the Commission on the most important laws of the year, but we did. We have alternative projects, we have ideas, we have teams. That is why our group will defend those 2400 amendments, which would certainly improve this budget, because, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is a bad one of solemnity. I will not repeat all the adjectives we have already devoted to you in the Commission or in the amendment to the whole of my group. Already all Spaniards at this point know that these budgets are nothing more than a flight forward from Sánchez, who are nothing more than the start of his electoral campaign with money from everyone. They are but a new chapter in his series of assignments and concessions to those who want to break Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not the budgets that Spain needs, because they will not help families reach the end of the month, because they are not designed for that purpose and because our businesses and self-employed will not have the support they need to generate employment and wealth in our country when one in four companies is in a vulnerable situation. These are not the budgets that Spain or the Spanish need, because, as much as they go up here to repeat their arguments these four days, the data are there and are irrefutable. Beyond the numbers, these are the budgets of ignominy, with negotiations that are not taking place here, at parliamentary level, and in which there is no talk of items and numbers. These will pass into history because they are the budgets in which prisoners were changed for budgets, in which the historical memory has been left in the hands of Bildu, in which the crime of sedition is suppressed to content their independent partners, in which in parallel they are suppressed the crime of embezzlement to content their insatiable travel companions who do not want Spain. [[applause]] These are the budgets for which they have to keep the useless and proud Minister of Equality so that their partners do not back off or the budgets in which they gave in to the Sports Act so that regional elections can compete at the international level. [[rumors.-Applause.]] For all this these budgets will be remembered, and for the hole in which they put the country. The other day we knew that the general government debt already exceeded 1.5 billion euros - with b -, more than 116% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, in a year with record revenues, with still low debt rates, public debt is growing to 5% every year compared to a growth that barely reaches 4% every year. Spain is not growing, it is in debt and, therefore, it is becoming poorer, because the 295 billion additional debt that Sánchez has brought - 295 000 - has not been worth anything. We remain the European economy with the highest unemployment rate and twenty-seven in recovering pre-pandemic levels. What does it have to be progressive to indebt the country in this way for many generations? [[Applauds]] Socialism has been saying for years that Spain did not have a problem of spending, but of income, for two things: first, to spend what it wanted without control, as it is doing, and, above all, to be able to raise taxes. Up to fifty has already risen Sánchez with the excuse that the fiscal pressure in Spain is low. Not one thing or another. Spain has a problem of spending, of unproductive spending, and revenues have triggered them at the cost of raising taxes and suffocating the autonomous, the enterprises and the Spaniards. And, despite this, continue to increase the debt exponentially with that unproductive expenditure, which these budgets sponsor up to EUR 14 billion in grants says the AIReF that they have no effectiveness, or up to 60 billion unproductive expenditure considered the Institute of Economic Studies that there was. The result of this unbridled political spending and this brutal increase in taxes is that Spanish people are poorer every day and have more problems reaching the end of the month. And this budget, which is the main economic weapon of any government, goes way beyond them and focuses on the political problems of the coalition government and the future election campaign of Sánchez, firing the government's propaganda spending. Ladies and gentlemen, the consumer confidence index has collapsed by twenty-two points in one year, and the corporate confidence index by more than fifteen. And without confidence there is no consumption or investment. How do these budgets help confidence? Does anyone believe that accounts that are based on wrong data help to improve confidence in our economy? Does anyone believe that budgets that violate the principle of universality help to restore economic confidence in our country? Does anyone think that in the midst of a polycrisis - which the Bank of Spain is already talking about - this is the budget that helps to improve confidence in our economy? Does anyone think that raising the tax burden by 9% in four years from Sanchez to our families helps them make investment decisions and regain confidence? Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets go deeper into all the imbalances in the Spanish economy and politically have an extra-budgetary cost that cannot be absorbed for our country and for our future. Therefore, during these four days by the People's Group we will go up to defend our alternative model. We will do so with conviction, with passion, with reasons and with projects, and convinced of being up to the level of a great country that suffers the worst rulers of its entire democratic history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. [[Mr Rufián Romero asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u9	Madam President, I would like to ask the Member of the People's Party to withdraw the insult of 'useless' to the Minister of Equality, Irene Montero. I am ashamed to have to ask you, who did not form part of your parliamentary group. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr. Píriz Maya.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u11	Madam President, useless is not useful, and I still think it is not useful. Therefore, he did not withdraw it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. Mr Mazón Ramos, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u13	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I would also like to defend the amendments of all the members of the Joint Group provided for in this section and in all the sections that follow today. I would also like to reiterate that having approved budgets for each financial year is essential for one country. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria has always, since 1995 that is in government, been characterized by having budgets approved in time every year, and what we believe is good for Cantabria we also believe is good for all of Spain. In the negotiations leading up to the adoption of the bill, we raised the most important issues affecting Cantabria and I have to say that the amendments incorporated largely meet our aspirations for the coming year, so we believe that these budgets are good for Cantabria. Finally, Valdecilla's debt is settled, which we especially thank the Minister of Finance, and includes the financing of the La Pasiega logistics centre and the Museum of Prehistory and Archaeology. A number of amendments are still pending, which we shall see in its section, and we hope that by the end of the year some commitments agreed for this 2022 financial year, which will soon be concluded, will be fulfilled. But I've been assured from the Ministry of Transport that they're going to do it, and I can only say that they're actually doing it or trying to do it. Come on, we're happy with this minister and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure. With regard to Titles I and II, corresponding to this turn, it must be said that most of these concepts are already in the General Budget Act, but it is never more to repeat than the great challenge that we have and that has this Government and this budget is implementation. Budget implementation is always letting it go, and I believe that this year should improve significantly, especially on the subject of meeting European funds. We'll keep discussing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Throughout this week we are going to talk about budgets, yes, but we are going to talk about something more important, which is the price we are willing to pay to have budgets. Because last year we already paid the price of the pardons, and this year to separatism, to the coupts of Catalonia against the Constitution, it seemed to them insufficient and they wanted the government to bend the knee a little more; to subject Spain a little more; to humiliate us all more if possible. And, indeed, it was possible, because Sanchez, with his lack of scruples, has yielded a little more. Therefore, what we bring this year is the modification of the sedition crime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budgets are not going to have a better road or a road, but they are not going to have a train or not; this budget is whether or not these General Courts are subject to independence and therefore all those who vote in favour of these budgets become necessary accomplices and co-operators of a government that trades budgets for impunity. [[applause]] That's what we're talking about with these public accounts. We have already reached such a level of scandal that the strategy is for a larger scandal to hit a previous scandal. And so the government, with the law of yes, is lowering the penalties of the aggressors, covering up the crime of sedition, that what is going to do is that the thugs go free to give a blow to the Constitution and that when they try again, as Junqueras said before its executive, go free to them. The sedition is to cover up the modification of the crime of embezzlement, because what they want is that if you steal for yourself that's wrong, but if you steal to give a coup d'état or if you steal to steal money from all Spaniards in favor of a party and a customer network that's not so bad. And of course, the embezzlement in turn covers Marlaska's scandals, which we have seen how he made an absolute inhumanity and, moreover, lied to the General Courts. And Marlaska, in turn, covers the hidden negotiations with Bildu for the Democratic Memory Act. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what these budgets are about. Of course, Spain needs budgets, but above all, what it needs is an urgent change of government that returns to legality, to legal certainty...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u16	Mr. Sayas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u17	...and, of course, defend the Constitution in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u18	Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u19	Thank you, President. When these budgets began to be dealt with, from the CUP we tabled an amendment to the whole, for three reasons, one of which was related to respect for civil and political rights. At that time we were talking about Pegasus and the listenings. How could we approve budgets for a government that is spying on us? Today, with the proposal for a law presented by the Podemos and the PSOE, which transposes certain European directives and also amends the Criminal Code, we believe that civil and political rights of assembly and demonstration are at risk with the modification of public order offences. From our perspective, what the proposal of law does is to transfer the spirit of sedition to public order. Concepts such as intimidation or suitability are empty concepts, which cannot be proved; they are concepts that will depend on the judge's judgement and not on the objective facts that have passed, and these concepts endanger the right to protest. With the reform of public order proposed by the Podemos and the PSOE, the occupations of banking entities that made the movement for housing and that obtained the donations in payment would be persecuted; the demonstration made by environmentalists here, at the door of Congress, would also be a crime; it would be a crime the Tsunami Democrátic; it would be a huge crime of the demonstrations that lead us either to gain more rights or to protest. We are convinced that neither the Republican Left nor the United Nations negotiators want to jeopardize the right to protest; we are fully convinced. So today we have come up to this rostrum to tell them to plant themselves, that sedition cannot go at the cost of the fundamental right to protest. Please, because the right to protest is fundamental in European democracies since World War II; the right to oppose an unjust law is fundamental. Settle down, correct, there's time, we still have a week. That sedition is not at the expense of fundamental protest rights, because tomorrow we do not know who will be in Moncloa.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u21	With the permission of the President, I will speak from the seat only to defend all our amendments throughout the various sections and chapters, and to point out that we will only speak in the last round of speeches before the vote on the budgets.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u23	Thank you, President. I, too, am going to make only one intervention and I am going to endorse all the amendments by the end of the budget. As is already known, my group will support these budgets for a number of reasons. First, because they have been addressed in a climate of confidence that we have been demanding and that we believe is necessary to address any negotiations. As you know, in our case this climate has been given by the fulfilment of some of the previous agreements entered into, as well as by the agreement already signed last week for the renewal of the five-year quota law in the same parameters as the current one, which means for Basque citizens to have funding of course enough to address those challenges that it has in the future. Challenges in infrastructure, social services, health and education; ultimately, to improve people's lives. Also because we share the need to provide stability to the institutions, it is necessary for every Government to have a budget that, of course, fits into the new context in which it remains necessary to address the energy, social and economic emergency reproduced by the war in Ukraine, and, in turn, that each Government can carry out its programme, order action and its economic and financial policy objectives and, therefore, improve the life of citizens by fulfilling the commitments made to society and the most vulnerable groups and, at the same time, generate sustained growth and stable employment to guarantee that welfare state, reduce inequality, social cohesion and address the structural problems and challenges that persist in the economy so that it moves towards a productive, green, digital, equal and sustainable model. A budget which must contribute to the transformation of the economic model and which, moreover, has two key instruments for this, such as the suspension of tax rules and the Next Generation funds; funds which, being finalists, it is true that we cannot amend and, therefore, with no margin for making changes to them through amendments. Having said that, in this framework in which the general budgets are drawn up, the Basque Nationalist Party has always had very clear and very concrete objectives, such as the Basque agenda, to work to ensure that it is fulfilled and to defend the interests of Euskadi in Madrid. This involves tabling amendments on matters that are the responsibility of the State in the general budgets and also supporting policies that help to improve people's lives and improve that welfare state and reach more people. In this respect, our amendments have been adopted. So, thanks to the dialogue, negotiation and subsequent agreement, 70% of the amendments we had tabled were already adopted in the presentation procedure. Last week in the Commission procedure, one more came in, and now in the plenary procedure, we are confident that we will incorporate another. Amendments that represent an investment of 72 million euros, which means about 41 million more than the amount granted in last year's budgets. Amendments, as I said, to boost economic growth and productive transformation, such as in R & D projects in Araba, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Navarra, such as the testing laboratory of the electrical traction system through the MOVIL Foundation, the CENER project in Navarra for the development of electrolyzers and fuel cells, or the testing laboratory of advanced electrolyzers through the CIC Energy Foundation in Araba. Amendments to improve key infrastructures for the day-to-day life of citizens, railway infrastructures to provide continuity to those projects already initiated previously, such as the removal of steps at the level of Balmaseda and Zalla, and hydraulic infrastructures, such as the Loiola EDAR or the flood prevention project of the Zadorra River. Amendments for the development of cultural projects, such as the Guggenheim Urdaibai or the restoration of the Sestao blast furnace; projects on the coast, such as the construction project for the repair of the pedestrian road in Sukarrieta or the Txurruka hostel in Orio, or other projects such as the protection of the defence of human rights, a programme in which work is already under way in Euskadi and which we want here in the State to develop a similar one to protect, through temporary reception, human rights defenders who see their lives or physical integrity threatened precisely by the activity they carry out in their countries of origin. Today we are discussing the joint text and the truth is that, apart from the amendments that we agreed with the Government and that have already been put to the vote, there are a few amendments from those tabled by my group to the joint text that are not going to be discussed or voted on, precisely because they are vetoed. For example, those relating to the public service and recruitment of public sector staff; some relating to the social security and retirement of certain collectives, such as the Ertzaintza or the Navarra Foral Police, or to the extension of the 30 per cent aid to the autonomous communities and local entities providing urban or interurban collective transport services that undertake to implement a reduction in the price of transport allowances and multi-travel tickets for land transport services of their competence, when I am sure that the extension of this measure will be seen in some other decree. There is also an amendment that will not be able to vote because it has not been accepted by the Bureau because it has no budgetary content, the one relating to the plans for the equality of cooperatives, in order to give them a solution to the problem they have with regard to the registration of cooperatives of the plans for equality and effects for public aid and that, despite having the approval of the Government, it will have to be left to resolve it in another law. I have no amendments to Titles I and II. However, as I have already said, I am going to defend all the amendments that we keep alive in the joint text and also the amendments to the other sections of the draft budget, as this is going to be my only intervention, but I would like to highlight some for your consideration. An amendment relating to the Audit of Accounts. An amendment concerning the exceptional measure concerning the price review of public contracts where labour is the main cost, a revision which focuses on labour prices, i.e. it does not reach either materials or other contractual costs, and with which it is intended to extend the extraordinary review to all types of contracts, since until now it was applicable only to very specific contracts, in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree-Law 3/2022 of 1 March, and which can be applied both to the State public sector and to the autonomous, fora and local sector, as well as to Ceuta and Melilla. A revision that, in the current economic context characterized by an increase in prices, would allow companies to impact on the price the costs of the wage increase applied in the agreement and, in addition, facilitate the adoption of wage agreements, avoiding labour conflict and ensuring the provision of service. Finally, in the area of the sections, I would like to highlight two amendments that remain alive, the one concerning the maintenance of the infrastructure of the Tindouf refugee camps for UNHCR, as well as the amendment to strengthen research into rare diseases, aimed at Bioef, diseases that are characterized by a large number and a wide variety of disorders and symptoms that, of course, we believe, require an increase in this heading for their research. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u25	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are with a new budget debate. And who was going to tell us, two years ago we were approving the budget for 2021 in this House and there were not a few of us who thought - even some member of the government, not precisely the Minister of Finance, who was convinced that he would approve all the budgets of the legislature - that that was the first and only budget that would be approved in this legislature, and now we are debating the third, as he was playing, and there seems to be a sufficient majority to be able to take it forward. Therefore, that does not cease to be good news. It is good news that there are budgets and that there is stability. As I will repeat later, whether these budgets are implemented is the responsibility of the current government, but whether or not there are budgets is the responsibility of this House. I have already defended all the amendments by the Democratic Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Therefore, they are all defended. I was saying that this is a budgetary debate and therefore we need to talk about revenue and revenue forecasting here and we need to talk about expenditure and expenditure forecasting, but, as your ladies and gentlemen will have appreciated, apart from revenue and expenditure, there are certain parliamentary groups here who want to talk about many things. Some of the Penal Code - which we are already going to talk about on Thursday, but they are in a hurry to talk about it on Tuesday and Wednesday, and surely in the morning and afternoon - others want to talk about the law 'yes or yes' and others will want to talk about what the government is selling and about the government's handovers and concessions to the independenceists and the nationalists. To the latter, to whom they say the government is sold, I would have to make a little memory because depending on the government when it was negotiating with the Catalan groups it was a clear and crystal clear negotiation, and I even remember that sometimes they came to some emblematic hotel in Barcelona and that others spoke Catalan in privacy to negotiate the budgets, and then there was no problem. [[Applauds]] Now all are transfers and concessions to the Catalans, to the Basques, that if the prisoners, that if the exiles, that if the condemned, that if the pardons... No, here we are talking about income and expenditure, and this is a responsibility that each of us has. In this first intervention, in relation to the budget, I must also fix the things that I do not like, because there are things that we do not like. We would have liked a budget with all the revenues and all the expenses. We said that on the first day in the Commission. It does not seem to us - and we must say so - that a budget is submitted to this House in which there is 10 billion revenue and 10 billion expenditure which is not reflected in the budget, but which is reflected in the budget plan which the Government sent to Brussels. Therefore, just as the macroeconomic table was corrected, we understand that there was time to correct income and expenditure items. With regard to the macroeconomic picture, we must say and note that it is always difficult to make a macroeconomic picture on which to build budgets, but in the current scenario it is much more difficult. We recognize him. We are in a very complicated situation, with a post-pandemic recovery that has not reached 100 percent, with a war in the heart of Europe that is particularly affecting us and with high inflation, not only in Spain but in many countries of the world, which has caused central banks to react with an increase in interest rates and also with an uncertain effect on a part of the economy. We therefore recognize that the macroeconomic picture is certainly better, very secure, but that it is also very difficult to get right with the specific variables and the impact they have on the economy and also on budgets. How has our parliamentary group focused on these budgets? How should any budget negotiation be focused? We understand that there were some budget items that needed to be supplemented and that there were other budget items that did not exist and that should be incorporated, thinking essentially - because we are a Catalan party - in our constituencies, in Catalonia as a whole; and in that we are, we have not yet concluded an agreement, but I hope that it can be concluded absolutely immediately. In any case, once the budget has been approved - if it is approved and I will repeat it at the end of this parliamentary debate - the responsibility for implementing the investments in this budget will not be for the 350 Members or for the 180 or 190 that we can vote in favour of the budget, it will be exclusively for the Government of Spain. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u27	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This week we hope to close those which will be the third general budgets of the state of this legislature, surely the last of it. These accounts are therefore the result of a third negotiation between various political actors, a negotiation that has been re-edited this year and which has made it possible to draw up the most ambitious budgets of history in social terms. In fact, social spending will reach EUR 266,700 million next year, or 35.4% more than that approved in Mr Rajoy's last budget in 2018. In any case, the scale of the ambitions embodied here does not cease to correspond to a complex, uncertain and dramatic reality for moments. Therefore, if there has been any time in our recent history to be ambitious about the operational capabilities of our State, that time is now. This is because the various critical episodes that we have had to face over the past three years have placed many families, hundreds of thousands of families, on the brink of collapse and, therefore, have completely challenged our capacity to respond as a society as a whole. Frankly, I believe that the two partners who support the present government have been able to understand the crucial moment that we are going through and have been able, therefore, to negotiate general budgets aimed at responding to the difficult context in which we find ourselves, in addition to doing so, in two directions: on the one hand, these budgets substantially raise the indirect salary of the middle and working classes of our country, after a few long months already causing worrying inflation figures with the consequent loss of purchasing power that this entails. For us, it was essential that families be compensated by measures that not only facilitate their day-to-day lives, but tend to affect their own price index downwards. I am thinking of aid for transport and mobility, housing, the provision for the future family law; I am also thinking of reductions in energy VAT, women's hygiene products, etc. On the other hand, while these budgets could not fail to respond to the urgency, they have also not neglected the importance, that is, the structural change in our productive matrix. And it is that, in order to increase the productivity and sustainability of our fabric, we will continue to channel resources, both national and European, with an unknown degree of ambition in our country to date. State investment increased by EUR 11.8 billion, 33 % more than in the previous year. 72% of European resources will also go to such important areas as R & D+i, digitisation, industry and energy or boost resilient infrastructure and ecosystems. Similarly, the public accounts we are debating today include the largest resources from the financing system for the autonomous communities, with EUR 135,300 million, or 24% more than in 2022. For their part, local entities will receive 23.2 billion, i.e. 5% more than the previous year. As you know, the system of autonomous financing has already expired for more than eight years and it is therefore of the utmost urgency to update it, so that the system is sustainable in the long term, something that unfortunately does not happen today. In any case, although this debate is not a substitute, it can be dealt with - let us hope that it will be in the coming months - in conditions which are somewhat less stressful than those which are currently living thanks to these budgets. Finally, and despite the suspension of the tax rules, the public accounts have not failed to honour the commitment to fiscal responsibility and therefore provide for a deficit reduction of up to 3,9 %. This will mean a decrease of up to 60% compared to 2020, thus maintaining the viable path already set out in last year's budgets. I would also like to point out that the agreement on these budgets includes a tax chapter without which it is impossible to understand the meaning that we wanted to put into these budgets. For example, one point increases the taxation of capital income by more than EUR 200 000 and two points by more than EUR 300,000. At the same time, reductions in income from labour are increasing and the corporate tax rate for companies of less than EUR 1 million net turnover is also reduced from 25 % to 23 %. In fact, the temporary tax on energy companies and financial institutions, as well as the solidarity tax on big fortunes, fits into this same logic and comes from the same agreement from which these budgets are born. In conclusion, I would like to dwell for a moment on a certain parliamentary configuration which has given rise to these budgets. Already in the debate of the whole that preceded this solemn session we could see where these shots would go. The right-wings, then, demarcated from any attempt at negotiation and again demonstrated a histrionicism incapable of covering up the total absence of alternatives on their part. Because - and this must be said - the decibels they employ in attacking the government are directly proportional to the emptiness of their proposals. We have heard from their lips and even the satiety that these budgets will not serve to meet the objectives of a greater redistribution of wealth. Well, neither have they declared any of these three rights if they share these objectives and with what different measures could be achieved. It all ends irremediably in the no and a thousand times not. Mr. Píriz, you spoke of futility; futility is what you do here lately. And you here have shown that, nothing, nothing, nothing. That's what you're for. [[Applauds]] In any case, there have been leftists here who have been able to answer, who have been able to live up to them. I think of Compromís and, of course, of More Country, but also of those lefts who have been accused one and a thousand times from the benches of the right to be enemies of Spain. Compañeras y compañeros de Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya y de EH Bildu, apart from the legitimate national aspirations that can be expressed, today is demonstrated the de facto commitment of your organizations to the workers of this country and their well-being. That is bad news for all those melancholy - as we have seen today - servants of the past in a new cup, as Silvio sang, worse news for all and all those we bet for a sustainable and peaceful future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is going badly, Spain is going badly; in fact, Spain is the worst in Europe. We are the country that later and worst we are recovering the pre-coronavirus pandemic levels, because we are the economy that has suffered the greatest destruction of its productive fabric and because our homes have suffered the worst loss of purchasing power in the West. That is the context in which we are discussing these budgets and, unfortunately, the latest economic growth data do not point to an improvement; on the contrary, they certify that the worrying economic slowdown that we are suffering from can be the antecedents of a recession that many institutions already give for sure. That is, that we are facing an economic stagnation, in addition to the consistent inflation, that is, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are leading us to stagnation. In addition, a particular circumstance accompanies this context and is that we are in an electoral year, with municipal, autonomous and general elections around the corner and with your determination to govern with your alternative facts. Therefore, they try to convince us that we are the first in the class, so they try to avoid the realization of the slightest self-criticism and, therefore, instead of trying to solve our problems, they aggravate them with irresponsible, unreasonably and deeply damaging budgets for Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the forecasts on which these budgets are based are absolutely unreal. The nature of the revenue that makes it possible and the electoral nature of the expenditure committed do not lead to any other conclusion. As we have been denouncing, these budgets are designed by and for the premise of benefiting not the Spaniards, not even the government, not even the Socialist Party, but only one person, Pedro Sánchez. And perhaps where most and best reflects the drift of this government's budgetary policy is precisely in Titles I and II of these budgets that we are discussing today, titles that describe the basic structure of the accounts, which presents all the statements of revenue and expenditure of the state public sector and which ultimately consolidate a budgetary hole that threatens very seriously the sustainability of our public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to grow again with solid foundations, to attract and retain foreign investment, to encourage domestic investment, to gain productivity, to create stable employment and to successfully face the financing of public debt in the face of rising rates and as the European Central Bank continues to raise them, Spain needs to fulfil a precondition: to have credible public accounts, and these simply are not. Firstly, because these accounts are based on forecasts that no one is believed to believe, not even you; forecasts unanimously rejected by national and international bodies, from the AIReF to the Bank of Spain, the IMF, the OECD, FUNCAS and a long time ago, which make these budgets, before they start, a wet paper. Secondly, because they consolidate a chronic structural deficit, with an expansion of public spending, even above the extraordinary expenditure incurred in connection with the exceptional pandemic. On average, serious institutions believe that Spain will grow by 1% next year, but you intend to raise spending ten times more, giving up even a gesture with those Spaniards who ask for sacrifices that you do not want for yourselves, because while 57 % of the Spaniards fear not being able to pay their bills in the coming months, the government of the twenty-two ministries chronicles the waste of the most expensive executive of democracy. You, ladies and gentlemen, are having a public spending party and passing the bill on to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Those same Spaniards who are in danger of economic slowdown, those Spaniards who are suffering the greatest impoverishment in forty years from the rise in prices, those who you turn off the heating in winter and turn off the air conditioning in summer, those who you propose to iron in the morning, those same Spaniards are amazed at the spectacle of a government that is once again raising its salary, which is once again setting a record of spending on advisors - which is already 65% higher than they were when they arrived -, a government that throws away a real fortune in buying wills, propaganda, televisions, trade unions, tailor-made surveys, political tolls and the construction of an ideological imposition machinery by the public era with harmful consequences for all Spaniards, and which does so while approving a tax increase with which it will continue to express to the Spanish middle and popular classes. The Minister of Finance denied me three times that I was going to raise taxes, but, at the time of truth, you have not left a tax behind. The OECD says: no developed country, none, has experienced an increase in fiscal pressure as high as Spain has in these years of Pedro Sánchez's government. [[Applauds]] No other has thought of raising taxes in the middle of a recovery. Believe me, that increase in the tax burden, when what our productive fabric needed was more support than ever, has much to do with us being the last in a recovery that does not arrive in Spain. And in these budgets they do it again. When we have not yet recovered economic activity prior to the crisis, when the total hours worked are 0.9 points below the existing one then, with 50,000 companies less than before the epidemic, the Tax Agency is going to collect more taxes than ever: 17% more for companies than before the pandemic, 20% more for VAT and 30% more for IRPF. In addition, you have changed the system of calculation of the municipal surplus; you have introduced disaster, the Google rate, the Tobin rate, the plastic tax; you have increased autonomous quotas, the VAT of sugary and sweetened drinks, corporate tax, the taxation of pension plans, the registration tax, the insurance tax and the IRPF, both on the side of labour income and on the side of capital income and savings. And the Minister of Finance will continue to argue that taxes have not been raised. [[Applauds]] With these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, the government is redoubling fiscal asphyxiation. You, who are responsible for this fiscal hack, use many tales to try to deceive the Spaniards with the accounts, but, ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards are not fools and will react with their vote. If you trust us, we can promise you and promise that we will rebuild everything you are destroying. There's less left. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u31	Thank you very much, President, and good afternoon. Mrs Muñoz, amendment to the largest: in all the general budgets of the State in which the Spanish Socialist Workers Party participates, while the pensions are in government, they will be protected. They're going to protect themselves! [[Applauds]] And I'm going to thank you for one thing. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled amendments to all of us in different sections, but there was one that it did not submit, that of passive classes, and hence the doubt: are they in favour or are they against raising pensions? But the doubt is clear thanks to you, because you voted in favour of your amendment to all pensions, so there is no doubt, Mr Feijoo does not want pensions to be increased in our country. [[Applauds]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, VOX has a holiday in August, October and November, with 52 Members, 47 assistants and not one amendment or one. We did 586 votes in the Committee on Budgets and you only participated in 25 random random votes. It seems that Spain that is early gives laziness to have to raise even the hand while sitting. Unproductive public spending? Yours. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it is equally true that the European Commission's autumn forecasts say that Spain is among the three fastest growing countries; it is also true that Eurostat places Spain in the penultimate position in inflation growth; it is also true that we are going to close the year with a record employment figure; it is also true that we are going to close the year with an unemployment rate that has not been seen since 2008; it is also true that we are closing the public deficit with less expenditure; it is equally true that we are lowering the public debt, because for you everything is wrong. Mr. Píriz told us that he was evil of solemnity. Is everything wrong? The gas cap has saved EUR 2 billion on the bill to consumers, is that wrong? We're paying 80% less taxes on light and gas, is that wrong? 9 million pensioners are going to see how your pension increases, is that also wrong? One million students have complementary training support, to study, is that also wrong? There are 2 million protected homes so they don't get cold in winter, and that's wrong? 2 million citizens benefit from free transport allowances, and is that also bad of solemnity? All this is in these budgets; in these budgets so bad. But what happens to you are not these budgets, you like others more. You like Mrs Ayuso's budgets, those in which she lowers 1 billion in taxes on the rich, the wealth tax, and refuses to extend the rebate on public transport because she says it costs 250 million euros. [[applause]] For with the 1 billion workers would have 4 years of public transport; it gives 1 billion to the rich and, instead, the workers who pay for public transport. And about the vetoes, the usual cry. Vetar is bad, the party always says that when it rules it is the most veto. But do you know what's going on? Which the government has to veto. Of all your amendments, I have counted up to 53 which represent a decrease in income. How is the welfare state paid? Of course it has to be vetoed. The Government will veto all amendments involving the dismantling of the welfare state. And we tell you today, that twenty-two years of the murder of comrade Ernest Lluch, the father of universal public health in our country. [[Applauds]] Today, less than ever, we will allow it and today, more than ever, our support for the health care workers in Madrid. Mr Píriz, last year you told us the same thing: our 2400 amendments are the People's Party's alternative plan. Yes, but last year you mentioned Mr. Married and this year, out of prudence, you didn't mention Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Píriz, who didn't mention it! [[laughs]] [[laughs]] He didn't mention it to us. [[Applauds]] What is the People's Party's alternative plan? In the pandemic, Madrid does not close; in the energy crisis, Madrid does not go out; for our elderly, do not go up pensions; in the renewables, put a tax on the sun; to lower unemployment, Mr Feijóo said that it was best that people do not sign up for unemployment; in health: videoconferencing; to protect the most vulnerable, vote no to the 15% increase in minimum living income or non-contributory pensions. At the very least, you say no: no to the minimum wage, no to minimum income and no to contributory pensions. Of course these cannot be their budgets! These are our budgets, the budgets of social democracy, because in these budgets what there is, gentlemen of the People's Party, is freedom for health, neither for education nor for dependence, because public services are protected. [[applause]] There is no freedom for pensions, pensions are raised and the pension hatch is filled. There is no freedom for young people, young people are protected by training and emancipation policies. There is no freedom for those who get extraordinary benefits because of a war, there is no freedom; this time the costs will be shared among all. There is no freedom for you to be cut off from the light and there is no freedom for you to be cut off from the gas, because there is a thermal bonus; you will not fall into the productive fabric of our country as you did in the last financial crisis. These are our budgets, the budgets of social democracy, those that protect the social majority, the family economy and also the productive economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez. We continue with the debate on Title III. In defence of amendments, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u33	Thank you, President. The draft general State budgets include a salary increase for both public employees and members of the Government and their senior officials. In both cases, the increases are identical and next year the members of the government will see their payroll increased by 2.5% compared to what they will end up collecting this year 2022. In addition, in 2023 it will be the second consecutive increase in the salaries of members of the Government, after the 2% that was already raised in 2022. This inflation of up to 1184 high offices of the socialist government, in coalition with Podemos, will reach in 2023 a cost of more than 130 million euros in full crisis, according to us the general budgets of the state itself. The State staff has increased by more than 20%, both in expenditure and in the number of staff. Since Mr Sánchez entered the Presidency of the Government there are 104 more senior officials, with an increase in the total expenditure of ministries and institutional bodies of more than 16 million euros. Thus, these budgets include an initial expenditure of 94 million euros on salaries: 87 million of the State plus 2.1 million of the autonomous bodies and almost 5 million of the other bodies. In total, the actual cost of the high charges foreseen for the year 2023 is more than 130 million, which is what all Spanish taxpayers pay. We will also take this opportunity to refer to section 15 on the Ministry of Finance and Public Service. As we have already pointed out, one of the most promoted measures is the just and positive increase in the salary of public employees by 2.5% by 2023, but the problem is not so much this increase in salary, but it is not enough for administrative agility and the response to the citizen in a context in which the replacements of staff are basic after years in which a drop was barely covered by a new discharge. The staff of the General Administration of the State ages while temporality and interinity are the main fronts to be faced by the administrations. It is true, moreover, that the public workforce needs a generational replacement and also increases in the number of staff in key areas such as those that manage, for example, benefits, subsidies, subsidies, pensions, unemployment or also the inspection - the most necessary and demanded - but there is a slow response due to the lack of human and also material resources, which do not solve these budgets. It has already been discussed in the previous section on indiscriminate and arbitrary vetoes submitted by the Government. In particular, with regard to those who have submitted to the Citizens' amendments, for example, major amendments have been vetoed to attract young talent to the public administration. We believe that the Administration needs young people ready to take on the challenges presented, and we have therefore proposed a system of scholarships and training within the Administration itself. The growing generational imbalance makes it difficult, as you know, to attract, maintain and develop that young talent that will help build better and more effective public institutions. That was vetoed. Our proposal for an increase in compensation for officials residing in the Balearic Islands was also vetoed, which was also derived from a GNP approved in March of this year by the Committee on Territorial Policy. The supplement that these officials are charging does not, much less, compensate for the cost of living in the Balearic Islands, and this is leading to these public employees asking to leave or to request a leave to fill a different position. The proposal to increase the troop replacement rate in the field of State security forces and forces from the current 125 % to the 130 % required to begin to recover from the previous years has also been rejected. In the area of State security forces and bodies, there is a notorious lack of human resources to address the many challenges faced daily by these officials in the area of citizen security. They have also vetoed the move to exclude from the computation for the replacement rate for priority sectors, including, nothing more and nothing less, personnel as important as research personnel; for example, places created for biomedical research within the National Health System. We know that the pandemic has made evident the importance of enhancing biomedical research in the hospitals and centers of the National Health System. And this has also been vetoed by you. It is not only that the general budgets of the State are bad, but also that they refuse to provide solutions to improve them. That is why we cannot support them from my group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror Saavedra. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I take this opportunity to present the overall position of the BNG in relation to budgets which, from the moment the Government of the State presented the project, we critically assess as insufficient and inadequate for Galicia and for the popular classes of our country and of the whole State. Why? Firstly, because the investment in Galicia is stagnated in a context of expansionary budgets in which investment in the whole State and in the vast majority of the autonomous communities increases significantly, except in our country, which is once again clearly discriminated against by the Spanish Government. Secondly, because social expenditure is also insufficient to meet pressing needs and to alleviate the negative consequences of the social and economic crisis associated with price escalation on the part of the people; in particular, as the most important item in these budgets is that of defence for the purchase of arms, which, in our view, is unjustifiable in the context of extreme social and economic difficulties. From the BNG's point of view, allocating more than EUR 17 billion, to the elderly, in a multiannual programming between 2023 and 2029, to military spending is a real barbarity and implies mortgageing the capacity to develop social and economic policies to protect and improve the quality of life of the social majority. It will also have a negative impact on the quality of public services and on employment and will result in new social cuts. What is surprising is that as long as the commitments made by the Executive in social matters remain unfulfilled in this legislature, what the Government does meet is the increase in military spending. Of course, in this case, at NATO's request and for greater profit from the American military industrial complex. In the face of this draft budget, as I said, clearly insufficient and inadequate, the BNG has tabled more than 350 amendments, 50 of which, by the way, have been vetoed by the Government in a very - very little - democratic exercise. However, despite the BNG's willingness to engage in dialogue, the government parties: the PSOE and Podemos did not show a real willingness to negotiate to improve it and voted against all the proposals put forward by us in the Committee on Budgets, including those that fall within the framework of the commitments made, such as the rise of minimum pensions, the creation of three gender-based violence courts in Compostela, Lugo and Ourense, or the failure to comply with the 50% funding of the law of dependency by the State. It should be remembered that if these commitments are not met in these budgets you will not meet them, because you are the last of the legislature. We can, in our opinion, explain to Galician society why they voted against - presumably again in this plenary of amendments - to increase investment in Galicia and to overcome the historical deficit in infrastructure and services, or also those which aim to help solve the serious industrial crisis in our country. I would like to remind you that among these amendments is the proposal for the establishment of the service of railways in the cities and metropolitan areas of our country, to modernise the internal railway network; to complete the construction of the high-speed Atlantic axis, to complete the little more than 30 kilometers of track that would allow Galicia to connect with Portugal with high speed; and to assume the construction of less than 30 kilometers of line that would also allow the capital of Galicia to join with Lugo with railway, to remove this city from its isolation in terms of communications. There are amendments to boost road infrastructure such as A 54, Santiago-Lugo, which has been in construction for more than twenty years and the Government is delaying its completion until 2024 and 2025; A74 in A Mariña; A76 between El Bierzo and Valdeorras, or A 56, Lugo-Ourense. There are also departures for the sanitation and regeneration of our rivers and rivers; or in the economic sphere, to guarantee the just transition for As Pontes and Meirama, for the conversion of Navantia into an integral industrial complex that incorporates the civil shipbuilding and for the public intervention of Alcoa as better solution to guarantee the continuity of the activity and the totality of the jobs in A Mariña at a time when, as you will know, the company itself questions that it can fulfill the commitment to restart the activity in January 2024. They are also amendments to ensure social policies in different areas, to meet peremptory demands, and others to ensure a fairer and more redistributive tax policy by lowering VAT, a non-progressive tax on essential products and goods to 4% or 10% in the case of hairdressers, as was the commitment of all political forces - of the PP when it came up, of the PSOE and of Podemos when they were in opposition and in any case, now and always, of the BNG - and by raising others, such as that of assets, one point in each tranche from EUR 1 million to get them to pay more who has more and less the social sectors they have less. In any case, given the closure of the PSOE and Podemos to negotiate to improve budgets for Galicia and the popular classes, the BNG cannot support the state accounts by 2023 and opts for abstention. But we will vote against the sections of the Royal House, as an expression of the bet for a republican alternative and rejection of an anachronistic and corrupt institution such as the monarchy, and of Defense for the unjustified and antisocial increase in arms spending; to both sections, by the way, the BNG had tabled return amendments. Finished. In our opinion, once again PSOE and United We may not comply with Galicia or the popular classes and the Government of the State denies our country what is justice. The BNG will continue to work to ensure that sooner or later we have what is ours.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u37	Thank you, President. Members, we must start by saying that these are the budgets of infamy, because they are trading with the money of all Spaniards to please their partners, the sedious and the embezzlers of public money. [[Applauds]] They are the budgets of infamy because they change prisoners for budgets, because they have left in Bildu the historical memory and whitening of the ETA and because they have failed to fulfill their word by pardoning those who tried to break Spain. These are budgets that show Sánchez's weakness, which cannot even stop a minister whose irresponsible and frivolous conduct in the so-called law of yes has indeed provoked a great social alarm, which is to put rapists and sexual abusers on the street. [[Applauds]] It has caused irreparable harm to women and to society as a whole, for which President Sánchez himself is responsible. These are budgets in which the Government, in contravention of repeated rulings of the Constitutional Court, has introduced many issues that are not related to budgetary matters. For the third consecutive year they have not adopted a single amendment from my parliamentary group, and we have tabled nothing less than 2400, which shows extreme sectarianism, since there are almost identical amendments from other parliamentary groups that have accepted; instead, those from the People's Group have been vetoed. [[Applauds]] These are budgets which are based on outdated and outdated macroeconomic forecasts and which have been questioned by the AIReF and the Banco de España, among other bodies. Budgets that trigger spending, debt and taxes. While families, self-employed people and businesses have to adjust their belts with insurmountable prices of gas, electricity, the shopping basket, fuel, etc., the Government continues to mock the Spanish without making the slightest adjustment in unproductive spending. We have a disorbited number of high offices, no less than 559, which cost us about 87 million euros. But as far as contingent personnel are concerned, there are 1283 advisers, which represent an expenditure of 71 million euros, a scandalous figure. To be hired, the merits are the ideological affinity and the card of the party, since the third part of them, in particular 417, has no medium and higher degree. This PSOE-Podemos government has become a genuine agency for the placement of friends, all at a time when there is more poverty, more deficit and more debt. The Government has worsened population data at risk of exclusion; there are more than 13 million people, of whom 2.4 million are children. And it's not about reducing social spending, no, no, it's about reducing unproductive unorthodox spending to do more with less. It has created a public administration that is the most mastodontic in the history of democracy; public administration that is, in addition, professionalizing by attacking the quality and excellence that has always characterized our administration, since they have greatly reduced the requirements in the tests of access to the public function, that is, the requirements to be an official. That is why we have tabled an amendment requiring that all public employment offers be governed by the principles of equality, merit and capacity, because it is the only way to have an effective and efficient administration that serves the general interest under the principles of neutrality and objectivity. The price of pacting with Bildu and Esquerra is to eliminate any idea of Spain. For this reason, as far as Catalonia is concerned, they have vetoed amendments in which we propose economic incentives for judges, prosecutors, the police, the Civil Guard and all officials of the General Administration of the State; economic incentives that, in addition, exist for other autonomous communities with difficult coverage. The Government has vetoed them for one reason only: because these amendments are intended to strengthen constitutionalism and strengthen the state in Catalonia; this has been the only reason for the veto. All of this makes it clear that these are budgets that are dictated by those who want to break Spain and, therefore, completely removed from the interests of families, entrepreneurs and self-employed people, interests that do concern us, and very much, in the People's Party. That is why our numerous amendments have been designed to promote and improve the living conditions of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. On a position-setting basis, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u39	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to express my group's solidarity with the victims of this last weekend's attack at a LGBTI community bar in Colorado, where an event was being held to commemorate the International Day of the Memory of Transgender People; a heartless man went on fire, killed five people and wounded almost twenty. Unfortunately, once again it is shown that these are the consequences of hate speech, homophobic speech, and transfugo speech; and unfortunately, in this very House every week we have some groups that strive to defend these kinds of speeches and we must start to say that they are accomplices when violence is unleashed against the indicated groups and the things that happen. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, listening to the first point of debate, but also to Mrs Llanos de Luna's speech, I had to look at the calendar and the truth is that I didn't know if we were in 2022, 2021 or 2020, because the feeling is that we are on the day of the marmot, it really repeats, it repeats, it repeats. The government, on the one hand, presenting budgets with the highest investment in social spending in history and the right speaking of budgets of ignominy, budgets of ruin, talking of ETA, talking of betrayal of Spain and talking of anything else that has little or nothing to do with the budgets themselves. I still don't understand what exactly they don't like about these budgets. Do you not like, as has already made clear, for example, the spokesman for Citizens, the increase in pension spending and the increase of 8.5% in pensions for our pensioners? Do you not like to increase the minimum living income by 8.5%? Do you not like the increase in IPREM, on which the majority of subsidies that receive thousands or hundreds of thousands of people in this country depend? Don't you like increased investment in dependency, health care, education? Do you not like to increase investment in electrical social bonds or thermal social bonds? Do they not like to see increased investment in modernizing the production system and public administrations? Do they not like to see increased investment in scholarships, investment in science and research, investment in gender equality and the fight against macho violence? What exactly do you don't like? Because I really believe that this is a country project, this is to support the popular classes, this is to defend rights, and these are budgets that defend the country project that represents the majority that is present in this House. [[Applauds]] Because that is another, they come up here and show absolute contempt for this House, for its representatives and for the vast majority of parties that we are here. You basically come to us to think that these budgets are the result of some sort of negotiation in a reserved night club or something similar between government representatives and representatives of one or two political groups to sell Spain in exchange for votes that allow us to continue to govern for a few more years. And you forget, gentlemen, that these budgets are going to be supported by the vast majority of the groups in this House: by Coalition Canaria, by the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, by Compromís, by More Country, by Bildu, by Esquerra Republicana, by Unity We can, by the PSOE, by the Catalan democratic party, etc. That is called democracy, ladies and gentlemen, it is called negotiation, it is called sitting with the plurality of the groups present here, which are the people who have voted for, and it is called reaching agreements so that it is possible for the third consecutive year to carry out the accounts that this country needs in a very difficult situation, after a pandemic, with the effects of the war and, of course, putting people in the center! [[applause]] Therefore, I think it is time to tell you that the problem you have is a problem with democracy, which we have had for forty-five years of democracy and you continue to believe that power belongs to you!, and that when you are not in government there is an okupa and that there is no capacity to dialogue or come to weave majorities with other groups, because power belongs to you. That's the underlying problem here, and that's why they come to talk about the barbarities they talk about and to quote ETA and do all the barbarities they do and say. [[applause]] By the way, Mr Píriz - I don't know if he is - calling a minister of this government useless is machismo and it is political violence. [[protests.-Applause]] If you have done it as an insult is machismo, but if you have done it for what you have said, because you consider it not useful, it is even worse, because what are you saying? That the laws passed to defend women's rights are not useful? Is it not useful for this country to take the lead in defending women's sexual freedom? Is it not useful for this country to take the lead in the rights of the LGBTI community or trans people? That it is not helpful for this country to ensure that women who want to abort can go to a public clinic to do so and do not have to be harassed and subjected by people like you?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] [[Applauds]] Is that what you're saying?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That it is not useful to defend women's rights from a ministry?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, that's misogyny and it's machismo, let me know! [[Applauds.-Protests]] Finally, when this Government arrived, there were public administrations with officials who had had a cumulative loss of systematic purchasing power for a lot of years, with an ageing workforce, with very high rates of temporality, and things had to be done, and we have been there. We have made the law of reduction of the temporality and have applied, for example, an accumulated increase of the wages of civil servants, workers and workers in the public sector, which from 2020 to 2024 will have an accumulated of 15%. Do you know how much the salaries of public sector workers were raised in the years 2011 to 2015, with an absolute majority of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party? Do you know how much it went up? Zero euros. Therefore, I think that also explains why you have to come here to talk about the things you talk about, because if you really came to defend the political project that you have for public services, which is degradation first in order to be able to privatize afterwards, nobody would vote for you. So every time they talk about all these things, what it proves is that we're doing things really well. It's all there is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u41	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. It is really difficult to talk about budgets when we have an unscrupulous government that, betraying its nation, changes accounts for penalties and deceives us with tales to release prisoners, and the tales start every autumn with the new general budgets of the state. [[applause]] Both the AIReF and the Banco de España, the European Commission and the IEE, among other bodies, have questioned the data on which the budgets are based because they are not credible. Title III, staff costs, is a subject on which the Government has not stopped fooling all Spaniards since it drew up the first budgets of this legislature in 2020. We have already said this last year, and also the previous year and the previous year, it is indecent to place on the Spaniards the burden of putting up with an elephantic government that, to top it off, spends public money on insulting us all by calling us wasteful. Did you waste Crazy for turning on the light or putting on the heating? Did you waste Crazy for trying to live with the dignity that we have earned by right and that this government should protect, because that's what we pay you for? How dare you thus lose respect for the Spanish people? How dare you? What do we call a government that has not wanted to reduce a single ministry, a single high office, or a single euro of political spending to share even a little the pressures in which its people live? How? What do we call a government that hasn't stopped hiring advisors even at the worst time in the pandemic, when the worst people were going through it? How? [[Applauds]] From January to September of this year, this government has broken the national record of spending on advisors: 51.5 million, according to data from the General State Intervention. This represents an increase of almost 6% over the previous year. Is this your way of showing empathy? Yes, the Spaniards have seen what that is called progressiveism. It's a school of peseprismo and mammourria. What if they start by shutting down the Ministry of Equality? [[Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair.]] In the current year its staffing has been increased by 121%, 121%!But in view of 2023, they are planning to put 65 more officials in that pool of incompetence and hatred. And for what? To keep calling us criminals all men? To lower the penalties to rapists or pederasts or to protect women kidnap children? Because that is what this ministry is dedicated to, under the orders of the Government, because they are not avoiding the deaths of women at the hands of men or men at the hands of women; nor, by the way, those of children at the hands of their parents - men and women -; yes, also women, even if it bothers them to hear it, that is the truth. [[Applauds]] Is that the authority of this ministry that we have heard before, Mr. Honrubia? No, the government will not close it, but we will, as soon as we can, because in a VOX government there will be no room for hatred of the Spanish, be they men or women. [[Applauds]] Another well-known unskilled public manger is the Ministry of Universities. How many Spaniards would know the minister's name? [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: And how many Members?]] Not even a survey of Tezanos would fix it, ladies and gentlemen. In these circumstances, they promise to increase the staffing by 31% more by 2023, when by 2022 it had already increased by 65% over the previous year. This is see-gon-zo-so. [[Applauds]] And we come to the ministry of the Presidency, the courtship of Mr. Bolaños, who attends this gentleman named Pedro Sánchez. A staff of 1721 is planned for the coming year, of which 37 will be senior officials and 553 advisers. And in VOX we ask ourselves: How much does Pedro Sánchez need to live among flattery, ladies and gentlemen? Because a politician who needs a contribution of 553 advisors is either deeply incompetent or is implementing a giant manger, which will be very resilient and very circular, but nothing sustainable. This is a policy of leverage, ladies and gentlemen, of leverage. [[Applauds]] And in the face of this waste, the Directorate-General of the Police will see the police force reduced in 2023 by 4138, implying a loss of more than 5% of its staff. Ladies and gentlemen, without security there is no freedom, even the socialists are already beginning to recognize that octopus is a problem that worries the Spaniards, and they are not mere bubbles of what you call far right. Looks like they want to get out of the matrix they live in. Well, socialist ladies and gentlemen, welcome to reality. But it is that the Ministry of Justice also rigs the other pillar that supports the security building: the Administration of Justice, allowing insults to the judiciary, breaching the commitments made with judges and prosecutors, lawyers and other officials. No bargaining tables for wages, no pay adjustments, no reduction of population groups, no updating of the amount of guards outstanding for years. Nothing for 2023. We need more cops, more judges and less plugs, ladies and gentlemen. These budgets of ruin have no possible amendment, because with this government the distance must be infinite. Fortunately, every day there is less for our country to regain democratic normality, freedom, order and security. Members of the Government, you will have to listen to us. We will demand from here and also from the streets of Spain that they stop hurting our people. We will teach them that democracy is respected and defended. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u43	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. After listening to all of you, there is a common denominator: you have so little to contribute to this budget, ladies and gentlemen of the right, that you do not run out of time. [[Applauds]] That is the importance for you of Title III, which speaks of public employment, our workers and the public sector in general. Look, there's a fact that's fundamental. See if these budgets are good that have been dedicated to looking for party arguments or bad cuts from other interventions of other years, because they have not really talked about what we are, in this Title III. They have no will or support for the 2.7 million public employees of our country, because none have referred to them. And I, on behalf of the Socialist Group, say to you one more year: with a government chaired by Pedro Sánchez, three budgets, three salary increases to always recognize their work for our country and for the citizens! [[Applauds]] And, of course, when you're looking for excuses, because you have what you have, that you don't run out of time and, of course, you don't recognize what our country's citizenship knows, that you're listening to us today: that when you rule the right hand basically, cuts and austereicide work, when you rule the Socialist Party - in this case, in coalition with Unidad Podemos - what always works is the improvement of public service, which helps each and every Spaniard. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: if Title III of the budgets for 2023 envisages a salary increase for the 2.7 million public employees, after an agreement at the general negotiating table with the UGT unions and the Workers' Commissions, of 2.5%, which can become 3.5%, why do you not say whether or not they agree? Why don't you come up here and say clearly whether or not you're defending that pay raise? Why don't you say it? Very easy, I say it to you: because you are not reliable, because when you are in the opposition you simply give lessons, but when you come to the government the cut-off and the austere is working. That's the reality. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the offers of public employment in our country over the past four years have been historic every year, every year more and more bet on basically settling what you have cut, because, as you always like to do or try to do business with the public, you have come to leave our country's staffing virtually low. Well, this is the next budget, ladies and gentlemen, in which we are once again betting on an adequate public employment offer to improve the services that each and every Spanish person attends, but also with replacement rates that have been improving each year so that we can increase those priority services. By the way, at least let us give accurate data, Mr Espejo, how is it that researchers are not a priority sector? Page 47. At least read it! Of course, there is a bet as an essential service for researchers and public employment in our country, as well as for state security forces and bodies. By the way, what you cut, because you left 10,000 less workers in the security of our country and now, when it grows, I have never heard you say - at least, recognize - that we are going to get with this exercise to what was previously in our country. And there is also a commitment to the stabilization of temporary employment in progress, of course, through Law 20/2021 of 28 December of urgent measures for the reduction of temporaryity. But I will give you a figure that I think is sufficiently clear: 143,869 public jobs have been offered in our country since Pedro Sánchez is President of the Government, just twice that in the six years that Rajoy was President of the Government, just twice! [[Applauds]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, listening above all to the arguments of the People's Group, I believe that you have said today, with the beginning of the processing of these budgets in plenary, that you are abandoning the possibility of governing our country, because what you are doing is clearly anti-system policy, and in the public as well. They have made this clear here today, because they have not at one time referred to how you would do it or how you would improve public employment in our country in this case. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what is the name of the mayor of Madrid - for a short time, of course - Mr Martínez Almeida, and Mrs Villacís de Ciudadanos, who cover 108 000 euros a year, when they manage the interests of 3.2 million inhabitants? That's 18,000 euros more than the president of the government. Or what is it called that the President of the Community of Madrid - you know, who still manipulates her leader; be careful, who already made a Casado..., to see if she is going to go after a Feijóo; be careful - collects 103,090 euros a year to manage 6.7 million citizens? [[laughter and applause]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, when are you going to publicly offer Mr. Feijoo's salary data in your party? When are you going to do that? Or are they afraid to recognize, as in other cases, that there are difficulties of transparency in their party, in that headquarters of the street Genoa that they were going to change but from which it now seems that they no longer move? Beware of that headquarters, which has little transparency data, ladies and gentlemen! And the 15th plenary, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the spokesman, Mr Ruiz Navarro, was giving us lessons here from what, because in budgets you have worked very little; two months of vacation are very well, but of course, you, so much so that you give us lessons, should make you look at it. Full at fifteen: in my land, in Castile and León: 10 million euros in payroll, 140 advisors and high offices, including yours, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - the chiringuitos with whom they came to finish and who are settling on my land - and in addition 1.7 million euros costs their chiringuito, that of VOX, in Castile and León. Ladies and gentlemen, if we join him this week in knowing that whoever has been allowed to do so, Mr Mañueco, the Salamanca Audience blames him, the People's Party itself, the provincial manager and him, the provincial president and president of the Salamanca Parliament, my land remains Sicily and León, now also supported by the far right of VOX. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u44	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u45	Citizenship supports the Government's measures in these budgets, because they are to benefit the middle and working class, and also, ladies and gentlemen, I say this clearly, because they support leadership with project, ideas and a team that will defend it, as you will see this week. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u46	Thank you very much. We move on to the joint debate on Titles IV and VIII, and Section 7, passive classes. In defence of amendments, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u47	President, thank you. Pension spending is the key, the negative key, to these budgets. The 8.5% increase in all pensions, without distinction, advocated by all parties means condemning our children and grandchildren to an unbearable and unsustainable debt, but it also means condemning our young people from the very beginning to live in a country that is devastated, lacks investment and lacks reforms. These general state budgets allocate more than 40% of public money to pay pensions, pensions that do not stop rising in their gross attempt to buy votes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unheard of that 1 in 2 euro of this budget is spent on pensions and also on paying debt interest. Moreover, it is impossible for any country in the world to grow and guarantee the welfare state by doing this which you intend to do now. In these budgets the pension line increases by 11.5 % compared to the previous year, up to EUR 190 billion, which is said to be soon. Only the expenditure on pensions, I have said before, doubles the money we spend on Justice, Home Affairs, Education, Labour, Health, Science, Defence, Foreign Affairs and Transport together. I repeat, together. We are the only ones who have dared to break the silence and denounce this taboo in which you all go hand in hand, to see if you fall for votes. Mrs. Mínguez is not here, but I hope you will listen to me. Mrs Mínguez has made a speech in which she spoke repeatedly about social democracy and the pride of social democracy represented by her party. I would like to say to Mrs Mínguez that she looks at the Social Democracy of Portugal, where the President has reached an income pact with the social partners, with the workers, with the companies and where he has also included the State, deflating the IRPF, lowering the salary of the civil servants and achieving a three-step revaluation with the pensioners, which does not even reach the cost of inflation; it is a three-step revaluation ranging from 3.5% to 4% of pensions. That is a responsible social democracy. But we must also tell Mrs Mínguez that the more you say, ladies and gentlemen of the left, that there will be a revalorisation of pensions and the more you proclaim your armor the more reason you will give us, the liberals, to ensure that you will break the welfare state so as to win votes. And not only does Citizens say it, the Bank of Spain says it and yesterday the European Commission said it. News from all the digital news today: Brussels will for the first time monitor the expenditure on pensions of the most indebted countries, such as Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, although the pension system is a matter of internal policy, within the framework of the new fiscal rules that Brussels is preparing for 2024, the European Union has decided that expenditure on pensions should count as part of the expenditure rule and become a structural issue. In other words, policies such as linking the rise of pensions to the CPI in an inflationary spiral context will be considered a discretionary expenditure of the Government, for the first time counting on expenditure rules and debt control. It does not say Maria Muñoz, it does not say Citizens, it does not say Liberals; it says Brussels, it says what we have been denouncing for a year and a half: that you are using pensions as a political and electoral weapon. That is why we insist on convening the Toledo Pact, so that we can propose sustainability mechanisms, if it can be before the Government, with the connivance of the People's Party, mortgages the future of several generations. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there are no half inks, we must reform the pension system as a whole. It has been said repeatedly, and I stress again, that everyone must shoulder it, that all economic agents must give in a bit and share the cost of inflation, and that an income pact must be reached. In this context, an increase in pensions, as these budgets propose, is profoundly unequal and unfair to you, who are the most social government in history with the most social budgets in history. Because this rise of pensions to the CPI linearly and regressively causes workers - private - to continue to be forced to contain the updating of their wages and to sacrifice their purchasing power to pay the pensioners. We therefore ask you to look at Portugal, look at the Portuguese Social Democracy, and take a little example. We have been telling you this since last year, when the pension reform was approved, we also told you in last year's budgets and we have told you in this year's budget procedure, but you always veto it. We are opposed to reforming the intergenerational equity mechanism, setting a ceiling on the revaluation related to the evolution of young people's salaries. We are forbidden to establish a special CPI for pensioners. We are supported by savings and pension schemes - six amendments - to increase the deductibility of contributions to pension schemes. And I'm not going into what we've been vetoed, because that's indisputable. So, let's keep reporting that you guys are breaking the system...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u48	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u49	...of the welfare state. You've vetoed it here. I hope and hope that the Toledo Pact will be convened soon and that, at least there, we will be able to discuss it for the benefit of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u50	Thank you. For the Republican Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u51	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Firstly, we want to defend our amendments to all the titles and sections. We begin the week of the plenary of the general budgets of the State, one of the most important laws of the year, with the will to continue to advance in dialogue and negotiation. As we have already said during the debate on the whole of these budgets, it seems to us that, in view of the current economic crisis, with inflation triggered and a winter in which many families are going to have a very bad time, it is necessary to sit down and negotiate to try to improve them and make them a more social budget, which will help people, especially those who suffer the most. We recognize progress over the past few days, but we will continue to take advantage of the last few hours of negotiating space that we have left to try to improve and reach a good agreement, which we cannot yet take for granted at this time. As I said, we have made progress on issues that were fundamental to us. We have defended the necessary implementation of a mechanism of compliance and/or compensation with the investments of the State in Catalonia. We have already referred several times to the lack of compliance with budgeted investments, which do not end up being implemented, especially in the last two years. Catalonia and its people do not deserve the chronic disinvestment by the state. We deserve a dignified and modern infrastructure: it cannot be that one day after another there is an impact on the trains used by the people who are going to work or study; it cannot be that the works of the N-II in its passage through the Comarques Gironines have been carried out for more than two decades. It seems that there can be a satisfactory formula for the implementation of the investments budgeted in Catalonia and, therefore, seems to us to be good news. We want more tools as a country to help people, to make life easier for them. Any space of solidarity that we gain seems to us to be a step forward. We have also made progress in responding to the needs of many Catalan municipalities that for a long time have seen how it is impossible to cover their positions as secretary and/or intervener. In many cases, especially in rural municipalities with less than a thousand inhabitants, it has been impossible for months to cover these places, with all the negative consequences that this causes. As a municipalist party that we are and because the municipalities and local entities are the administration closest to the citizenry, we demand that immediate solutions be found. We must also make progress in the conquest of new public spaces and equipment for some municipalities and cities in the country, where they have unused military infrastructure or former Civil Guard barracks. These spaces are often located in a very central area and could be used for new uses and public equipment. We demand courage to address this issue. We must also make progress on green transition projects in order to fight climate change effectively, but in order to tackle this fight decisively, we need policies that are different from those made so far. As I said at the outset, our will is to reach a good agreement and, therefore, we are voting against the amendment to all the budgets put forward by the right-wing and we have sat down with the Government with the intention of dialogue and negotiation to make these budgets better. To do so would be to open the door to most harmful alternatives for Catalonia and its people. Not doing so would not make us more independent, but would make us less useful, and at such difficult times people will always find Republican Left at their side. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u52	Thank you. Mrs Pérez Merino has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In this intervention on Titles IV and VIII and Section 07, i.e. on public pensions, social contributions and passive classes, we will try to highlight the points that we consider to be most important. With regard to public pensions and passive classes, we highlight the increase in expenditure on public pensions. It is therefore desirable to comply with the guarantee of the purchasing power of pensions, by linking them to the rise of the CPI. Pensions paid by the social security system, as well as those of the passive classes of the State, experienced in general in 2023 an increase in percentage equal to the average value of the rates of annual variation expressed as a percentage of the consumer price index of the twelve months prior to December 2022. The Social Security budget is growing by 8.2%, up to 224 690 million. The largest item is that devoted to pensions, in fact, for which expenditure of more than EUR 190 billion is envisaged, 9.4% more than the forecast for the liquidation of the budget of 2022, and which reflects the revaluation of all benefits according to the behaviour of the CPI, guaranteeing the purchasing power of the pensioners. Moreover, thanks to the entry into force of the intergenerational equity mechanism, the EIM, designed to strengthen the income of the pension system, the Social Security Reserve Fund will receive contributions for the first time in more than a decade. The planned contributions will reach EUR 2793 million. Here we have to remember, in case someone has been forgotten, that the PP used the pension hedge for purposes that were not specific to Social Security, thus denoting the public pension system and following its line of circumventing public services to then privatize them. In the area of contributions, it should be noted that the new system of contributions for self-employed workers based on net returns will be put in place. Social security income will increase by 12.8%, and in these it will play a very important role the contributions of workers and employers, which will amount to 143,261 million euros, 16 billion more than last year. The maximum contribution bases will increase by 8,6 % in 2023. Finally, the increase in the maximum contribution basis will be associated with a write-off of the maximum pension. After this rosary of data, which I am sure all your ladies and gentlemen know, I would like to focus on what really matters to this Member, the people behind all that data and these numbers that we are talking about. To that end, I would like to reflect on two aspects that I consider relevant. The first is directly related to this intervention. I would like to point out that we must continue to protect and give our pensioners everything they have earned with their sacrifice, for it is not in vain that they were the ones who led us all here to maintain the status we have. They are the ones who, with their day to day, with work, effort and teson, managed to generate the social well-being that we enjoy, which, if we don't pay attention, we can lose by the work and grace of those neoliberals who are more concerned with favoring the powerful than with safeguarding the public. Our pensioners, our elders, are the ones who generously gave up their efforts and, sometimes, their lives so that we would have a better society, of harmony, of justice, of public and democratic rights. We will show little decency if we do not respect that legacy and defend it with nails and teeth, for them, for us and for those who come. We are already quite ashamed, at least in the Community of Madrid, to see how so far it remains unaccounted for, who caused our elders to die in the residences during the COVID, without receiving the relevant medical assistance, all by the work and grace of abject protocols that condemned them to an infamous agony, gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I hope that this judicial power, so equanimous and so formed, is independent enough to investigate thoroughly and sanction, if necessary, such a mockery. In the second section of this reflection, I would like to urge this progressive coalition government to continue to meet the objectives and agreements set out in this parliamentary term. To this end, we can and must count on all legal, democratic and constitutional resources, without fear, tainting that which undermines the coexistence and progress of all citizens, not just a few. This Government must demand that all persons who fall within the three powers that underpin the rule of law - legislative, executive and judicial - comply with the law and walk in the same direction, with respect and seeking a common good. There's no one above anyone, no matter how many people believe it. The general interest of the citizenry is above all that, and if anyone believes himself above good and evil or does not comply with what is agreed upon in our Constitution, using for this purpose artefacts or legugile arguments, we must demand it with the same firmness as society requires. This must be done, we must continue and we must maintain it. That is why we must continue, because society hopes that our Government will take care of the disadvantaged, that it will take care of our public services and that it will minimize the policies that the neoliberalism of the PP against health or education, for example, has been doing. The governments of the People's Party now protect and protect the powerful, the banks, the corrupt and the commissioners, while the rest are becoming more and more impoverished. In conclusion, I would like to thank and show my unconditional support to all those who, every day, with commendable courage, face lynchings prompted by spurious and undemocratic interests, since under the cloak of a supposed freedom of expression or independence, which is not so, they want to paralyze the progressive and inclusive policies of ministries and a Government that are uncomfortable, because they do not come to the demands and interests of a few. Strength and encouragement. We're on. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u54	Thank you so much. Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Government presents us with a social security budget that contains very significant data. First thing. Despite the €38,904 million in transfers, a deficit for non-financial operations of €7199 million is budgeted, which has multiplied by almost five since 2011, but does not prevent a continuing deficit for non-financial operations. Let us remember that in order to finance these transfers and the loans covering the remaining deficit the State has to be indebted, and the question is: can public accounts ensure the level of transfers in the future? The answer is no, and we are based on three main reasons. The first is that the projected deficit in the public accounts will amount to 3.9 % of GDP in 2023; that deficit, according to the stability programme, will continue for the next two years, and that deficit, according to the estimates of the International Monetary Fund, will exceed 4 % by 2027. The second reason is that Spain's public debt is at a historical peak, reaching the amount of EUR 1.5 trillion. The third reason is that the Social-Communist Government has no intention of cutting political spending. Second of all. The amount of passive class pensions, which are not part of the Social Security budget, amounts to EUR 20.5 billion. If we add to this amount transfers and loans, we are talking about EUR 69 billion of expenditure that is not financed by social contributions. Third dice. A social contribution income of EUR 14,702 million is budgeted below the contribution pension. This is a gap that will widen in view of the current population pyramid and the early retirement of the baby boom generation, a gap that is 5.2 times greater than the contribution of 2793 million euros to the intergenerational equity mechanism. Fourth given. An increase in income from social contributions is proposed by 11.5 % over the budget of 2022 and by 8.4 % over the forecast for the liquidation of this financial year. It is an increase linked to the rise in the maximum contribution bases and to economic growth. Let's look at both conditions. First condition, increase in the maximum contribution bases. With an unemployment rate of 12,7 %, the highest in the European Union, and after increasing labour costs as a result of the introduction of the intergenerational equity mechanism, increasing the maximum contribution basis by 8,6 % is a complete irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] It is irresponsible, as a further increase in labour costs, following the rise in the price of energy, raw materials, intermediate goods, interest rates and taxes, is an additional burden on companies. It is irresponsible, since those companies with problems in shifting the cost increase to prices, which are mainly SMEs, may be forced to reduce their activity, create jobs, or raise wages less in the face of the fall in their production margins. It is irresponsible to increase labour costs with unemployment rates ranging from 1.7 to 2.2 times the euro area average since 2008 and with a youth unemployment rate doubling that of that area. It is irresponsible not to take into account macroeconomic projections, such as those made by the Banco de España, which show for the period 2022-2024 that employment seems to be losing vigor and which point to a decrease in business turnover and the existence of a deterioration in confidence indicators. Secondly, economic growth that will boost income from social contributions. However, neither in Spain nor outside Spain is the forecast for growth of 2.1% of GDP by 2023. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what can never be lacking in a budget is credibility, and it is that, Socialists, in the light of your actions you cannot speak of credibility. I remind you of three cases: in 1985 the Socialists passed a pension law which, according to their union, meant a reduction in the average retirement pension of 21.3%; in 2011 the pensions were frozen to more than six million Spaniards, and in 2021 the maternity supplement was lowered in the pensions of mothers of large families. Nor do they have credibility when they speak of avoiding the intergenerational conflict, curious request of those who have left behind examples in their history of fostering conflict; curious request of those who have raised the debt of each Spanish since they came to power in more than 6000 euros; curious request of those who forget that the real dam of containment so that an intergenerational conflict does not arise is the family, because it is in it that we see reflected the values of effort, generosity, commitment, example, affection, respect, equality, solidarity and responsibility. [[applause]] In conclusion, I will recall a phrase that Minister Escriva recently said: from the public, uncertainty must be mitigated. It's a first step towards wisdom. It must now be realized that making unrealistic growth estimates does not mitigate uncertainty; that budgeting with deficits does not mitigate uncertainty; that increasing public debt does not mitigate uncertainty; that increasing labour costs does not mitigate uncertainty. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, socialist policies never mitigate uncertainty. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u56	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u57	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A moment ago we heard Mr Rego explain for seven minutes why these general state budgets were bad for Galicia. Unfortunately, he did not devote a single second to explaining why he is not going to vote against those budgets that are so bad for Galicia. [[Applauds]] I guess it'll be for consistency, for having made Pedro Sánchez president of the government in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess to you that today I have been very disappointed. Today, you have the best window to apologize to the Spaniards for the huddle of the law of yes, which has meant that, today, at least eighteen sexual aggressors have left jail or are going to do so before time; unfortunately, many more will come. Mr Guijarro and Mr Honrubia, you spoke of Mrs Montero's usefulness. The only ones I've heard defending Mrs. Montero's usefulness are the lawyers defending rapists and pederasts, the only ones. [[Applauds]] I have not heard it from Mrs Yolanda Díaz; yes to the lawyers defending rapists and pederastas, Mr Guijarro. The truth is that, today, none of you, and all of you are co-responsible, the Government and all of the groups that have supported this law, have asked for forgiveness, that no one has assumed responsibilities and that Mr Sánchez tells us that it is best to be held in arms watching rapists and pederasts come out of jail. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the debate on this title began. I have to say that they are two fundamental features of the government's legislative activity since 2018. One is frivolity, because a serious ruler does not rule at the stroke of slogan and banner, as you do, nor does he do at all hastily for purely partisan interest, and that is what you are doing to approve these general budgets of the State, to legislate at all hastily by forcing the deadlines to the legal limit, and, moreover, you do so by negotiating with your partners not on the basis of economic or social criteria, but on the basis of personal criteria, only personal: to gain time in the Moncloa for Pedro Sánchez. To this end, they do not care to make the general budgets of the State dependent on the approval of an amnesty for its criminal partners, convicted by the Supreme Court, or to approve the reduction of penalties for the corrupt. You don't care; you unprotect the rule of law so as to buy Mr. Pedro Sánchez a little time. Another feature of its legislative action is pride, which leads them not to accept amendments from parliamentary groups, such as the People's Parliamentary Group, to which 2300 amendments have been rejected, many of which, by the way, have been rejected, and with criteria not covered by the Constitution, which only empowers the Government to veto those which involve increased expenditure or reduced incomes. The Government has vetoed them on matters of form and on ideological issues, with regard only to the author and not to the content of the amendment, which is not legally permissible. And, Mrs Mínguez, spokesman for the Socialist Party, you say you have found fifty-three amendments properly vetoed by the Government, but the reality is that we have been vetoed almost three hundred, Mrs Mínguez; that is, for each of you who have vetoed correctly, we have five illegally vetoed, and you, on top of that, take out the breast, Mrs Mínguez. [[Applauds]] I'd recommend a little bit of modesty when you say what things. His vetoes have no other intention than to confront the debate with another economic model other than his, and that of his far-left partners. That is why they have abused, at least, the allegation of veto power. The pride has also been credited, once again, with deaf ears to all national and international analysts, public or private, who have expressed, one after another, their rejection of public accounts based on false macroeconomic forecasts. The AIReF, the Banco de España, FUNCAS, FEDEA, BBVA and, thus, up to twenty-three economic study centers have been denying the government over the last few weeks; twenty-three, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely all have denied their false accounts. This disastrous economic policy has serious consequences for the lives of the Spaniards. They're tangible consequences, and there's no propaganda I can cover up. As much as they spend on propaganda - and they spend a lot, more than anyone else - the Spaniards, with you in the government, suffer, especially those of middle and low incomes, the main damage to their economic policy. That is why inequality has not stopped growing since you ruled, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Since you govern, inequality has not stopped growing, as there are poorer people in Spain than in 2018, when you came to the government, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what you declare to be very social. [[Applauds]] Since 2019, ladies and gentlemen, the disposable income of families has been reduced by 5.9%, while the tax burden has increased by 5%. Speaking in Paladin Roman, with Sánchez in the government, the Spaniards are poorer, but we pay more taxes, so you will already tell me what social shield was that of which you presumed, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. We are the only ones who have not recovered and, therefore, despite increasing the debt on GDP more than twice as much as the European Union average, we have not yet reached the pre-pandemic GDP; the only ones in Europe, the last, the worst, no matter how much you say; the last, the worst in the wake of a crisis, which we have not yet overcome by their economic policies. As I was telling you, we have already exceeded a billion and a half euros, committing future generations. It's an absolutely unbearable debt. I do not know whether it seems moral to endorse our children and grandchildren - in Mrs Calviño's words - the bills of their disastrous economic policy. The Social Security budget has also contributed to this. The Banco de España estimates that, in the last year, the gap in public accounts has widened by 8% and that the debt of the pension system is already running at EUR 100 billion. FEDEA estimates that you are wrong about the budgets and that you do not estimate all the expenses. But go ahead that the People's Party is in favour of revaluing pensions, Mrs Mínguez - do not repeat something you know is not true again - that we have always voted in favour, of course, but just as important as revaluing pensions is that they are sustainable over time. Sustainability is achieved, essentially, with more and better jobs, and with you we have worse jobs, despite the makeup of fixed discontinuous jobs. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you not to tire of repeating that, unlike the 2008 crisis, with Zapatero, the exit of this one will be more just and more social. There are three lies in one sentence: we have not come out of the crisis, it is just, because there is more inequality and more poverty, and it is not social, because we are in debt to the eyebrows.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u58	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u59	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, at least this time, Mr Sánchez has not frozen pensions, as he did in 2011, and hopefully will not be able to do so because after next year's elections he will rule the People's Party and not freeze pensions. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u60	Thank you. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u61	Good afternoon. Mr Olano, the only one here who would have to apologize for the infamous 2013 pension reform is the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Infamous, because it cuts the pensions by 40% and left the Reserve Fund shaking. Come on, less wolves, caperucita! [[Rumors]] These budgets, despite the right - relax - create certainty for our pensioners, young workers and the elderly, because they know that these budgets guarantee pensions worthy of today and of the future and generate stability to the public pension system, also of present and future, balancing their accounts and, of course, giving a certain future and covering the generation of the baby boom. Purchasing power is therefore guaranteed with the CPI and progress is being made in the budgetary balance that will soon be achieved. These budgets, no matter how much they weigh, comply with the Toledo Pact, with social dialogue, with Europe and undoubtedly improve the system. For starters, the closing forecast for 2023 is 0.5% deficit; Mr Rajoy left it at 1.6%, EUR 18 billion, the worst deficit in the history of Social Security with the People's Party, these great managers. The dynamism of the labour market is making it clear that the system can be and is sustainable, thanks to the transfers from the State General Budgets to Social Security - which were led in recommendation 1-. I am surprised, because I believe that the Citizens' Lords were not in the agreement of the Toledo Pact that day. Recommendation 1 says that stability must be guaranteed, and, of course, the labour market is giving us great surprises with an increase in memberships, in improving membership and in improving jobs by 11%. These budgets therefore comply with the reform of Law 11/2001. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not agree, that this reform made it very clear in black and white: the state is a direct guarantor of both the balance of the system and the pensions and that they are worthy. This government promoted a reform by conviction and commitment, and that is why the CPI in pensions is guaranteed today. We are going through a fire test for these General State Budgets, because, look, here you, the right-wing gentlemen and these opinionators that we have in the media, do not believe in the CPI and have been saying it for more than a year. But, well, have you not yet realised that this high CPI is an extraordinary situation that cannot cause us to condemn pensioners to extreme poverty because we simply need to freeze pensions? I'm surprised the lords of Citizens, they don't listen. Look, I tell you times, when I hear the liberals say that's what the Bank of Spain has said, the economic gurus have said, I would also say if I paid the holidays to my civil servants with the money of all the Spaniards. What is it, that then they are already valid? This gentleman, the president of the Banco de España, knows perfectly well that what he has said is not supported by the new pension reform. They are again taking advantage of a short-term moment to impoverish pensioners. You're not reliable, you're not sincere. Look, two years later, and after eleven years of not agreeing on the Toledo Pact, we came to an agreement that cost us horrors and you voted with both ears, and it turns out you're questioning it now. They are neither reliable nor can we recommend them as managers. Of course, the right wing in this country does not build a country. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, Mr Olano has not mentioned a single pension word, he has not said anything. [[Rumors]] He hasn't said anything about pensions. You are creating, without any kind of modesty, an intergenerational internal confrontation that is indecent. [[Applauds]] Look at whether the issue of questioning the maximum pension CPI is fat, which we are talking about 7%, Mrs Muñoz, only 7%. Freezing maximum pensions does not ensure the stability of the pension system. It is deplorable that you confront young people with older people, because who guarantees a young person that because he freezes a pension, he will have a salary, he will do a decent job? Don't tell lies, don't tell lies because it's indecent. I'm finishing up. The most unworthy of all is that you fail to abide by the covenants. An agreement is reached and it turns out that their legs are now shaking and they fail to comply with the covenants. Do you not know, liberal gentlemen, right-wing gentlemen, the gentlemen of VOX, that if we do not guarantee the purchasing power of pensions today and tomorrow in twenty years we will have an economic crack? I'm not saying it, financial analysts say it. Because there will be a loss of purchasing power and there will be no capacity for consumption. You have not yet understood: today it is 10 million, in twenty years it will be 16 million. Where will consumption be if pensions are cut thanks to the reform of the People's Party? Where's the consumption going to be? Of course, it will not be in your agreements, gentlemen of Citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, they do not comply with the pacts, they do not comply with the Toledo Pact, they misunderstand the agreements, the broad consensus, they leave them phosphate facts. They are presenting amendments to the whole, although the People's Party is now trying to escape, but they voted in favour of the amendment to the whole of the citizens who are impoverishing pensioners. They therefore voted, Mr Olano, against pensions. They generate false confrontations, gentlemen of Citizens. Yes, the Catalans know that because we've lived them. They left the pensions shaking, the Reserve Fund with €5 billion, today we are again building, strengthening the public pension system, guaranteeing pensions with the CPI and, of course, strengthening a system that has been shown to be the best formula for building a country, a country that is united and fair: pensions for today and tomorrow. We guarantee you, you don't know where you'll be. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u62	Thank you. We continue with the joint debate on Title V and Section 06, Public Debt. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u63	Thank you, President. I don't know if I'm gonna be able to live up to you, Mrs. Perea, the truth is you've left me upset. We have no pain in recognizing that Spain, like the rest of the world, has suffered exceptional misfortunes during this parliamentary term, events that have undoubtedly conditioned and hampered the action of the Government, but to be fair we must also say that the Government of Pedro Sánchez is ruling with the possibility of using resources of such magnitude that we can say, now yes, that they are historical, because they had never been mobilized at any other time in history. These are resources or tools such as the suspension of European tax rules since 2020, and they will not be reactivated until 2024, when everything points to reform to meet the needs of each country, with the sanctions that each country needs. And, the other extraordinary mechanism, is that package of European funds for recovery from the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all recognize this phrase which says that a great power carries a great responsibility. What are we in Spain as a counterpoint to the abolition of tax rules and the arrival of European funds? That this permissiveness in spending has placed Spain with a very high public debt which is now, no more or less, 117% of our gross domestic product. This is true despite the strong increase in income, despite the fact that the Government is taking advantage of inflation to raise more, despite the Government's refusal to deflate the IRPF rate as Portuguese Social Democracy does, as we said before and as we have been asking for for more than ten months. This solid increase in revenue is also despite the fact that the Government continues to have its profits fallen from the sky - which denies other industries - and facilitates us as a State to have achieved the projected deficit reduction by 2023 by a little more than half a point, although it is still lower than last year. That is, there is a reduction in deficit, but it is unique and exclusively because of these record levels of collection that constitute a cyclical and cyclical component, and not because Sánchez and Podemos have adopted not a single structural measure for such a reduction. In addition, it is important to highlight in this chapter of debt that, from now on, with the change of cycle in the monetary policy of the central banks, we will finance our debt with the highest rates of the last decade. If the allocation of these budgets to pensions and debt interest is already more than 50%, can anyone imagine what this item is going to entail in the accounts for the following year, that is, in the accounts that we will negotiate for 2024? It is no longer a worrying or dangerous policy, it is directly a suicide policy. They add to that the low birth rate, the zero help to families for conciliation and we have the perfect storm. Last April, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority warned that the rise in rates is going to mean an increase in the Spanish public debt bill between 2022 and 2025 of around EUR 20 billion, but only two months later confirmed that the events that were happening imply an additional increase in these calculations between EUR 12 billion and EUR 14 billion. If you think about it, we are talking about that only the public debt bill in the coming years is going to rise to EUR 34 billion. It's terrifying. The Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority itself has accused its Government of not having a strategy to reduce public debt by giving everything, or only, to the cycle and circumstances. It must be recognized that the AIReF is ready and says that Sanchez always places responsibility for the country and future generations on its electoral interests. Not a reform of these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, nor a long-term measure, but just to burn money by trying to capture wills in front of the elections. Nevertheless, my parliamentary group has continued to work to improve these accounts which should have been returned in full. We therefore proposed amendments such as the obligation for the Government to submit a five-year consolidation of public accounts in order to be able to comply with the pacts and commitments in the Stability and Growth Pact, as well as with the deficit and debt recommendations and objectives agreed with the European institutions and their debate in the Finance Committee at the Congress. Compliance with our European partners with regard to public expenditure control and financial stability must be a priority. This commitment must be among the Government's main priorities, even more so, when we are now in full debate and in the context of the revision of the tax rules. Another amendment proposed the development of a rebalancing plan required by the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which the Government has continued to fail systematically since 2020, or we were proposing the strengthening of the independence of the AIReF to carry out its functions without any interference and remain an independent body. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is very comfortable without reforms, because much of the opposition is not proposing them either. We do not like this government, but we work hard to try to make its policies as harmful as possible to citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u64	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u65	I'm done, President. We are not going to fall into the irresponsible attitude of doing nothing with these budgets, but it must be said that they are a political suicide and our obligation was to do as little harm as possible. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u66	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u67	Thank you, President. Before we begin, I wanted to ask the Socialist Group a question about the contribution to the Social Security Reserve Fund. If Social Security is deficient and has to be financed with public debt, what is the point of the State being indebted to fill the reserve fund which, in turn, is going to buy public debt? I hope that some socialist spokesman can explain the benefit to us. We don't understand. I don't know if they're hoping that at some point the state won't be able to issue debt. Otherwise, you don't understand. Section 06, Public debt and Title V, financial transactions. After Mr Hurtado's unfortunate intervention in the Committee on Budgets in this section and title, I had two options: to refute his lies or to devote myself to analysing the debt situation. I think I'm going to choose the second. He just discredits himself, doesn't need any help. In fact, you can see it in a few minutes. With regard to section 06, public debt, there is only one amendment from the Section's low citizens that we will not support for two reasons. Firstly, it is a budget adapted to needs because if a deficit is created, what can we do if we do not issue debt? Stop meeting the debt dues? Stop paying interest? There is no other option than to issue debt, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, we are in favour of the Treasury's management in these years by extending the average term and reducing the average interest in living debt. Secondly, the Constitution in its article 135.3 and article 14 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability establishes an absolute priority for the payment of public debt. He said that budgetary appropriations to meet the public debt interest and capital of administrations would always be included in the statement of expenditure of their budgets and would not be subject to amendment or modification as long as they were in accordance with the conditions of the issuing law. He also said that the payment of interest and the debt capital of the administrations would be given absolute priority over any other expenditure, with which there was little to discuss. What we do not agree with is the deficit generated by these budgets and that of previous years since Mr Sánchez ruled, not because of the deficit itself, but because of the amount. We believe that it should have been smaller every year in which it has ruled. In none of the years has the slightest effort been made to reduce it, as if the deficit were good or adequate for our country, and it is not even legal. Article 135 of the Constitution in its paragraph 1 tells us that all public administrations will adapt their actions to the principle of budgetary stability and the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability tells us in its article 3.2 that budgetary stability of public administrations will mean the situation of balance or structural surplus, not deficit. The emergency situation allows it, but the spirit of the laws goes on the other hand. The Constitution and the laws do not send you, gentlemen of the Government, to do what you are doing, but just to the contrary. Do not tell us now that we do not want deficit because we do not want to help the citizens. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are against your management, this deficit management, because with the extraordinary growth of revenue we do not need to generate this huge deficit and because, if there were a project to eliminate unnecessary expenditure and better expenditure management, we would not need so much deficit and, therefore, so much debt. Socialists, you like the deficit and that always puts our country at risk. On the debt, the Commission gave them the data: at the end of the debt in September, we exceeded 1.5 billion euros; the debt generated by Mr Sánchez from June 2018 until the end of the parliamentary term will be about 350 billion euros, practically the same amount generated by Mr Zapatero between 2007 and 2011; plus the debt generated in the first year of the mandate of Mr Rajoy, created by the previous government, 82 billion outstanding bills and 27 billion deficits in the electricity system, 110 billion, and something else that should be taken into account if we consider the economic disaster encountered by the Government of the People's Party, for example, when trying to maintain public services with a fall in tax revenues of 70 billion - 70 billion -, almost 15% of the total consolidated revenue of the State. Socialists, they like the deficit and they also like the debt and that puts our country at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about it. If we have a structural deficit of about 4% and the institutions' debt forecasts for the coming decades are very high, do you want to tell me how we are going to deal with the coming crises? With a deficit installed above 3% and a debt on GDP well above 100%, it is impossible, and I do not think that we have Europe to help us, as with the restructuring of the financial system in the previous crisis with the reconstruction funds on this occasion. How are we gonna do this alone? The other variable is growth, which would be able to reduce debt if it were sufficient, but so far it has not, nor do the economic measures that the Government has implemented. Last week the IMF issued a report in which it placed Spain as the advanced economy that will have the worst results in this crisis: a 6% drop in 2024. While it must be recognized that in the pandemic we were more affected than in other countries, we must also acknowledge that in the energy crisis it was on the contrary, we were one of the least affected countries. This is the result of the management of this government: the worst country of the advanced, the worst in Europe; always the worst, the worst, the worst, is already good. And what is more serious, it does not seem that we will be particularly helped by reconstruction funds, exclusively for mismanagement and no transparency. By the way, we do not have clear information on the evolution, the implementation or, in particular, the results. In Title V, Financial Operations, we have tabled an amendment to amend Article 54(5) on public guarantees. We want the Government to communicate quarterly to the General Courts the living balance and main characteristics of the public guarantees granted and to appear in Congress every time 5% of them are activated. We must bear in mind that the periods of shortage have ended and the competition ban has been lifted. I hope that the groups supporting the Government will not choose to conceal information and risks from this House. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The government likes deficit, likes debt and does not like growth and that puts our country at serious risk. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u69	Mr. Olano? Mr. Olano is not here. This is not the first time we have seen how they attack Minister Irene Montero by land, sea and air, but the level of moral uncleanness is exceeding any limit. We have heard very wretched speeches in this rostrum, but to see once again that you are willing to do everything is very disgusting and shameful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Everything is in order to bring down the Ministry of Equality. I send all our support to the minister and her team. [[Applauds]] 'We are not merchandise in the hands of politicians and bankers', this was the common cry that in May 2011 flooded the squares and neighborhoods of all corners of Spain. The premise was simple, in the most incarnated of an economic crisis caused by the greed of high financial spheres and aggravated by a politically imposed austerity, which rescued the culprits and abandoned the victims of their chanchullos, the worthy people of this country rose. They peacefully occupied the public space to remind this House and everyone who would like to hear that the people also count, to claim that another way of doing politics was possible; a useful policy at the service of the people, a policy that put at the center the most important: life. We were there. We are not merchandise in the hands of politicians and bankers, we are not numbers in a graph, we are not disposable, we are people, our lives matter. There were thousands of people with illusions, with truncated life projects, millions of precarious lives, abandoned by those who had chosen to protect them; people who refused to be silent witnesses of the degradation of democratic institutions that had turned their backs on people, on the general interest; humble people who reminded us that sovereignty resides in the people and that the powers of the State emanate from them. This is the constitutional mandate that some, conveniently and politically, decided to forget. This is the mandate that called us to organize, the reason that many of us are here today, the reason that I am speaking in this rostrum. The political response to the 2008 crisis and its popular response are a living memory of this country. In this case, like so many others, it is essential to remember it, to keep it present in memory in order to honor those who preceded us and not to repeat the same mistakes. It is the memory of those places, the lessons learned in those years, that led this government to face the health, economic and social crisis that devastated the world in 2020 in a diametrically opposite way to how it was managed then. This time it would be done without leaving anyone behind. The public policies that this Government launched saved lives, protected families, workers, self-employed, young people, pensioners, small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers. The examples are countless: a moratorium on evictions, an ERTE system that has protected 4.4 million workers in these two years, an ICO line of endorsements for self-employed people and businesses, etc. Today there will be much talk of debt, net and gross issues, outstanding debt and interest rates. The benches of the right austereicide, blinded by neo-liberal dogmas that continue to prove false, will tell us of irresponsibility, of mismanagement, but among all the noise we must always remember something that those mobilizations started in 2011 knew well: the debt must be at the service of the people and not the other way around. [[Applauds]] The reality is as simple as that public debt is no more or nothing less than one of the great mechanisms that executives have to finance their policies, but the important thing is what is done with those support. The PP knows better than anyone. Mariano Rajoy's disastrous government increased debt by more than EUR 450 billion, 31.8 points of GDP. Indeed, under his mandate the debt increased at the highest daily rate of any Presidency of democracy. Even this Government, with its broad social protection, continues to issue 7.7 fewer debts than the previous Executive. We do not know what the Government of the People's Party spent this amount of money on, while the population was impoverished, the welfare state was dismantled, workers' rights were curtailed and defrauders were pardoned. Although we may suspect - as we suspect what is hidden behind the acronyms of M. Rajoy - that it should have been allocated a large part to public contracts given to family members, or setting up chiringuitos in which they placed friends, as Mrs. Aguirre did with Mr. Abascal, who enjoyed a salary of 80 000 euros a year at the Foundation for the Sponsorship and Social Heritage, which had a budget of 250,000 euros in 2013, the year in which he did not register any activity; or as his worthy heir, Mrs. Ayuso, did with the sleek Spanish defence office and 80,000 euros a year that Toni Cantó was pocketed. Perhaps if he had dedicated that amount to Madrid's health, and by the way the amount spent on buying masks five times their price during the hardest of the pandemic in a business facilitated by his brother, he would not now have the entire health service and half the population of the Madrid Community on the streets claiming their right to quality public health. The political and social commitment of this coalition government has always been at the service of the people, and it has done so with serious, guaranteed, solid and progressive policies, first during a pandemic and now during a terrible war and an energy crisis that has triggered inflation and which heralds a difficult winter for many families. Despite this, and despite the sadness they would like, for hateful and ideological reasons, for Spain to return to the situation to which they brought us in 2012, the Government has demonstrated exemplary management capacity. Spain is an example in Europe and in the world of management based on social, feminist and ecologically sustainable policies. We have reduced unemployment, increased undefined contracts and the inter-professional minimum wage, revalued pensions, set up rent subsidies and a vital minimum income, promoted an ecological and limited transition to excessive increases in light and gas, and we have done so always by drawing up public accounts that maintain fiscal responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u70	Thank you so much. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u71	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is the third year that I come here to discuss title V and section 6, with which this is almost becoming for me on the day of the marmot, really. I am telling you this because I do not think there have been any Members in this House who have been more aware of the risks of public debt to the House and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. The debt has not stopped growing in absolute terms: at the end of September, we were at EUR 1.5 billion; since December 2020, it has grown by EUR 160 billion; at September this year, we were at EUR 77 billion, when 66 billion had been budgeted for this year, and for next year you have budgeted a growth of EUR 67.5 billion. You are shielded, for example, from the fact that GDP has fallen slightly in recent months, but you will also prevent us from increasing GDP in nominal terms because of inflation. In any case, what you are obviating is that the relevant thing is the growth of the interest expense item, which had not grown for ten years and that this year 2023 is going to grow for the first time. Why has there been ten years without increasing the interest rate in spite of growing volumes of public debt? For basically because the rates have been falling, but this has come to an end - we have already warned this two years ago - and since the minimums of March this year the average rate of outstanding debt has done nothing but grow, and this year 2023 we are going to pay at last more than the previous year, in particular 31 billion, 11 billion more, which means that each family will have to devote 2000 euros of its income to the payment of interest on the part of the debt that is attributable to it, which is 90,000 euros per family. But do you know the worst? The worst is that, as the policy of low rates has ended, as we warned you two years ago, and as all debt issued at high rates has practically expired in the year 2022 - there is a little bit left, which will win at the beginning of 2023-, from 2024 all debt renewals will be carried out at higher rates than the types to which it was issued. What does this mean? That we're going to get into a spiral of rising financial expenditures that's going to make public accounts unbearable. You guys didn't give a shit about the volume. They said: What gives me half a billion at 2% more than a billion at 1%? Sure, it's the same thing at first. How long? Until the guys start going up, because when the guys start going up, double duty costs twice as much, and that's what's going to happen to us. And the rates have risen a lot, they have risen by 1.5% in the very short stretch, by 2.5% in the short stretch and by 3%, which is the most relevant, in the long-term. Indeed, it is surprising to hear Mrs Muñoz of Podemos remind us of something that is true: that of the 1 100 billion increase in public debt that has occurred in the last eighteen years, 450 billion are due to the People's Party, which in its seven years proved to be the government that was in debt more quickly. That is true, but you have the reversed roles, because in 2010 the government that cut the salaries of public employees, froze the pensions and had a general strike was the socialist government. [[Applauds]] Look, the growth in interest expenditure in the coming years, if the current rates are maintained, is going to lead us to an annual financial expenditure of the order of 40,000 to 45 billion, when right now we are paying 31 billion. Imagine what a growth of between 10,000 and 15,000 million is dedicated only to interests and which will have to be drawn from other items. That is, it will be impossible to maintain policies. You see, low-interest monetary policy has turned you into genuine public deficit junkies. Why are they going to control him? Why are they going to make structural reforms, which are always laborious and unpopular in the short term? At the beginning of this legislature, the governor of the Banco de España - not the president; the Banco de España has no president, has a governor - told us about the five-year lost by not carrying out structural reforms. We haven't lost a quinquennium, gentlemen, we've lost four, I repeat, four quinquenniums we've lost. In the last eighteen years public debt has grown by 285 % of nominal GDP; nominal GDP per capita has increased by 33 % and accumulated inflation by 35 %. In other words, Spanish people in the last 20 years have lost a 2% per capita income. That is the success of the policies that the two parties have led. [[Applauds]] You have no interest, none, in solving the problem. All they ask of the European Central Bank is to lower interest rates, using as shields the Spanish, to those who have led to this situation. You will begin to feel in the public accounts the same way that the Spaniards are feeling in their private accounts: the increase in the financial burden will make you unbearable to sustain the welfare state. The present austerity is the best guarantee of the future of the welfare state. [[Applauds]] And don't tell me that there was austerity in the governments of the People's Party when you yourselves, gentlemen of the United Left, have recognised 450 billion in debt in seven years, of which only 60 000 have dedicated themselves to the bailout 'cajarioja'. You will continue in your mistakes, the mistakes that have impoverished Spain and make it poorer in the future. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u72	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u73	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Financial policy. Title V, Section 06. The first message is to the People's Party: focus; focus. They are unable to submit an amendment under this heading and to adopt the title and section report. Recognize it: incompatible, incomprehensible. They tabled an amendment as a whole, voted in favour of the amendment as a whole, and the report... Look at you, Mr Paniagua, who don't even know what they're voting for. [[Applauds]] The important thing is that financial policy and economic issues have indicators, and the indicators assess the results of economic policy, in this case, of financial policy. I brought myself a battery of indicators. [[Show a chart]] These are all the financial policy indicators that exist, there is no more. Let's go one by one, gentlemen of the People's Party. First, risk premiums. You have reached a risk premium of 491 basic points. We are currently at 105 basis points, stabilized the risk premium. It is half that Italy; Canada even has more public debt and an index, a ratio and a risk premium higher than ours, and the United States too. We're stabilized on the risk premium. Second: public debt/GDP ratio. You added up 30% of this ratio, you left it at 100% of GDP. We're at 115 right now. We've increased it by almost half, 18%. Third indicator: financial burden. Do you know how much financial burden was paid when they ruled? EUR 38 billion. Our current financial burden for 2023: EUR 31 billion. 20% less costs us public debt to the government of Pedro Sánchez. Fourth: average interest rate. Do you know the average interest rate that the public debt had when they ruled? 2.5 %. We're almost in the middle: 1.6%. Fifth: emission types. Do you know how much you issued public debt? At 1.15%. Spanish public debt is being issued at 0.89 %. Half of it, too. Finally, amortisation period of 7.5 years. We got it eight years ago. Mr Paniagua said: We agree with the strategy of the Treasury, which is increasing the repayment period of the debt. Of course I do. But you are also aware, and it is the only explanation for your vote in favour of the report, that the majority of the public debt currently being paid comes from the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And that has to be known by the citizenry. That is why you approve the report on this title. This financial policy, which is diametrically opposed, has completely different authorship. Authorship faithfully reflects what type of financial policy was carried out before and what type is carried out now. [[Show pictures of Mr. De Guindos Jurado and Mrs. Vice-President Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, Calviño Santamaría]] The People's Party author was a banker, a banker, Mr. De Guindos. By the way, Lehman Brothers sank as executive president on the Iberian peninsula; placed preference and ground clauses; was on the board of Mare Nostrum, who needed EUR 1500 million in public debt, and injected EUR 67 billion to heal the bank that is costing him in our pockets. [[applause]] This was the author of his financial policy. Our financial policy is carried by a public servant, not a bank servant. If Mr De Guindos gave the bank 67 billion that we are paying the Spaniards, Mrs Calviño has meant a tax on the bank that contributes EUR 1500 million, to which you are opposing. Mr. Paniagua, how much did Mr. De Guindos issue of public debt? EUR 460,000 million. How much has Mrs. Calviño issued? 303 billion euros - an abysmal difference - but including in the 303 billion euros 35 billion euros of the Sareb, that bad bank that created Mr De Guindos and that is also costing us the money to all Spanish taxpayers. Therefore, the differences are abysmal. I'm going to go on with those differences. What are you doing or what did Mrs. Calviño get? Mutualize public debt in Europe. What then did Mr De Guindos say to the Eurobonds? That was impossible, that public debt could never be pooled in Europe; precisely what Mrs Calviño has achieved. Mr. Paniagua, you will also agree with me that while Mr. De Guindos cared about the thousands and thousands of evictions - almost 20,000 evictions in the quarter at the time - Mrs. Calviño has established a moratorium on evictions; while Mr. De Guindos cared about the financial exclusion with the elimination of savings boxes, Mrs. Calviño has reached an agreement with the banking entities to eradicate the financial exclusion throughout the Spanish territory, and lastly - and I have concluded, Mr. Paniagua - while Mr. De Guindos cared about the evil that could happen to those who were mortgaged, Mrs. Calviño is working at this time in the mortgage rescue, another of the great...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u74	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u75	...successful financial policy. Therefore, a diametrically opposite financial policy that responds to two diametrically opposite profiles: the bank server and the public server. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u76	Thank you very much. We moved on to the debate on Title VI. In defence of amendments, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing Title VI of general state budgets, which really are the worst that all Spaniards could have at the moment, at times of crisis, at times of difficulty, at times when paying the bill for light becomes increasingly difficult, at times when inflation marks historical levels; budgets built on indicators that we know perfectly well are not the reality. It has been criticized by the AIReF, it has been criticized by the International Monetary Fund, it has been criticized by the Bank of Spain, and we have seen ourselves under the obligation to table a number of amendments in order to try, as far as possible, to improve it for all citizens. However, we have found that in this title we have absolutely vetoed all the amendments, all the amendments. But I wanted to say one thing to the government - I do not bring explanatory graphs like Mr Hurtado, but I think they will understand me perfectly -: We are not being denied the amendments to us, to Citizens or to the parties that are here representing the opposition; they are being vetoed to citizens who make donations to food banks; they are being vetoed to the self-employed; they are being vetoed to citizens who cannot reach the end of the month because the expenses they have each month are already insurmountable. All these people are being denied the possibility of having a better day-to-day in our country. We are submitting an amendment to apply type 0 to the purchase by private individuals of food intended for donation in favour of those most in need. We know that there are several moments of large food bank collections and it is estimated that around 4 million private donors are involved. What we have asked with an amendment is that these people who go to the supermarket and buy food to give up immediately to the food bank are not charged VAT or there is a mechanism by which they can be returned the VAT that the Government has collected in donations. But no, this Government does not think of food banks, does not think of the people who do that work, who are able to buy food for others, for the people who need it most, and therefore vetoes that amendment. But we've been vetoed much more. We have been vetoed by many amendments aimed at helping the self-employed, such as an amendment which sought to facilitate the recovery of VAT on unpaid invoices and the elimination of the mandatory tax burden on the cash criterion. Although this general budget law already provides for some modification in this sense - which is bound, indeed, by European case law - we believe that we can go a step further, declaring that a credit can be considered uncollectible and thus recover the VAT unjustifiably advanced to the public coffers from the moment when the legal deadline for payment contained in our legislation expires, instead of a year, as currently required by law. We've tried before. We believe that it is important and that it could help many small self-employed people who have unpaid bills and who have to advance VAT to finance the Government. They have also vetoed an amendment seeking an increase in the deductibility of contributions to self-employed pension schemes up to €8500 per year. This improvement was intended to put an end to the discrimination suffered by self-employed people vis-à-vis self-employed people, as self-employed people still have much more difficulty in obtaining a high pension. We believe that in order for them to have the same rights as workers on behalf of others, it was essential that this amendment, at least, should be voted on in this House. We have also been banned from deflating the IRPF rate, a demand that we have been making since Citizens for almost a year. We believe that with the levels of inflation that we are suffering in our country, it is imperative that the rate of the IRPF be relaxed. But we have also registered an amendment - which has also been vetoed - to increase the deductibility of contributions to private pension schemes up to EUR 4000. Why? Because in the last two years this deductibility of contributions has been drastically reduced from 8500 per year in 2020 to 1500 per year today, and with this amendment we wanted to reduce the number of taxpayers who have recently been left out of this tax benefit that was enormously needed, because it will help to encourage individual savings to supplement a pension for our future, for the future of all Spaniards. Another amendment that has been vetoed - because, as I say, we have absolutely vetoed all the amendments - is a temporary and extraordinary deduction that will make it possible to ease the increase in interest rates on variable rate mortgages made on habitual housing, a temporary deduction with a maximum and extraordinary way, something that would ease, as I say, the pocket of the Spaniards in a fairly simple way in the declaration of income. [[The lady]] We therefore believe that what they have achieved with this title is to introduce only their advertising and only their ideology, because they have not thought of the self-employed or of the citizens or of the food banks. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mr Guijarro García has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u79	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, everyone. Title VI, of tax rules, which we are discussing on this point, has some elements that I am going to set out here today, but before that, I would like to go into some of the elements that have been raised in the debate this afternoon here in the Chamber. First of all, Mr. Olano - I don't know if you're walking around here; yes, very good afternoon, Mr. Olano - you have spoken of the law of yes is yes. It is true that it does not seem to be the most appropriate context, since we are talking about budgets, but since you are talking about the subject, let me give you a prognosis that has some admonition. The prognosis is that when the mob passes, when all this noise we're hearing passes, this law will pass into history and will be remembered as a significant advance. [[Mr. De Olano Vela utters words that are not perceived]] Believe me, I can make a mistake; it's my prognosis, you'll make another one. However, I do tell you that you will go through the toilet of history; you will only pass into history like ashes. That's what's going to happen. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mrs Muñoz - good afternoon too, Mrs Muñoz - I would not wish to fail to answer two questions which you have mentioned here from the rostrum and which I think are very pertinent. First of all, you have accused the rest of the parliamentary groups of acting with some electoralism regarding pensions. I do not deny that some of that may be, because there are many groups, many motivations, but I find it difficult to think that behind the position of Citizens there is also no electoral position. That is to say, when the People's Party says it defends pensions, it certainly does, as you said, for electoral reasons, precisely in order not to lose votes, but, of course, when everyone has already been lost, it is only left to win. So, aren't you also sinning a little bit of electoralism? Think about it. Secondly, you have criticized the government for saying something like that the government sets levels of spending and from there builds. Something like that you said. The truth is, you're right, it's exactly like that. From my parliamentary group, we have been arguing for many years that the concept of a ceiling on expenditure and a ceiling on income is not as good as the concept of a general state budget. That's our concept: income floor. In other words, the Spanish population requires a number of public services, because it has a number of objective needs, and from there it is necessary to form a State that is able to meet those needs. It is certainly another way to build the general budgets of the State where people are placed first and from there it is to care for them and to give them services; certain esoteric, numerical balances are not placed first, but people of flesh and bone are placed, and that, as I say, is good news. With regard to tax rules, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros said this morning that the government is going up and up and up and up and up taxes, and has repeated it to paroxysm. When we come to Title VI, at this point, you realize that Mr Espinosa de los Monteros did not have to fall into the reduction of the IRPF to workers and pensioners, surely because he is neither worker nor pensioner. Nor did it have to fall into the reduction of the IRPF to self-employed professionals, surely because Mr Espinosa de los Monteros - there it is, good afternoon - neither is it. [[Sir.]] [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, making affirmative gestures: Yes]] I mean, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros doesn't want to see what's in the BOE, and that's worrying. We can criticise the fiscal policy of the Government, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, but we have to stick a little to reality, because, of course, if not, we are discussing unicorns. We could also talk about VAT reductions for women's hygiene products. In any case, my group has been arguing that further reductions of certain VAT are necessary. In particular, we were talking, for example, about hairdressing services, a highly precarious and highly feminized sector, which, however, has not yet seen how the reduced VAT enjoyed a few years ago is restored. This measure seems to us to be fundamental and no longer just as an anti-inflation measure, but precisely to meet the sectors that need it. From our group we have insisted that it is necessary to carry out a normative development of the measures that allow for progress in the configuration of a just and progressive tax system, in which all natural and legal persons contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure according to their economic capacity, as is indeed reflected in article 31 of our Constitution, something that aligns with the committee of experts in tax matters, which considers it appropriate to carry out a tax reform in a gradual way. There is no doubt that some progress is being made in these budgets, but we are still far, as I said earlier, from the measures needed to achieve a level of structural income that will strengthen our welfare State to deal with extraordinary situations such as the present one. I mean, ladies and gentlemen of the right, if you don't like what we're doing, just wait and sit down, 'cause we're gonna move on. [[Applauds]] With regard to tax benefits, which are also reflected in this chapter, they affect State taxes and are estimated at approximately EUR 45.3 billion, i.e. 1.2 % more than last year. The tax benefits recognized in indirect taxes are the ones that have the most weight over the total and follow direct taxes, with 38,8 %. Again, tax breaks. Ascents from some and descents from others, this is called a fiscal policy. Among the main regulatory changes having a quantitative impact on the tax benefit budgets of the year 2023, it is prominent in the IRPF, for example, the reduction in the ceiling for the reduction in contributions to social security systems, which has increased from EUR 2000 to EUR 1500 per year since 1 January 2022. In conclusion, we in our parliamentary group consider that one of the issues to be analysed and included in the debate on the necessary tax reform is that of tax benefits, precisely. In particular, those who have made the corporate tax the tax base totally uncoupled from the accounting result, causing a strong gap between the two concepts, and what large business groups have been profiting from. Already in 2018...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u80	Mr. Guijarro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u81	I'm done, President. In 2018, he said, after a decade of crisis, the profits declared by large companies had been largely recovered, but the tax bases declared are still far from what was declared in 2007. When we get back what we collected in 2007, we will begin to close one of the most painful wounds of the crisis ten years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u83	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. When we discuss taxes, this government usually looks towards Europe, with the excuse that in Spain the tax burden is lower than in the European Union, and its preferred word appears: harmonisation, a term that the government administers at its convenience. Harmonize to raise the tax bill to the Spaniards, the perfect excuse to raise taxes. And, at the same time, harmonize the criminal rates to reduce the sentences of the present and future to the seditious. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, why are you not so bold to harmonize, for example, the unemployment rates in Spain of 12.7% with those in Germany, which are at 3%, or with the European average of 6%? Why do they not harmonise the gross domestic product per capita of each Spanish, which is currently EUR 25 500, with the European average or that of Germany, which is EUR 43 290? [[applause]] For I tell you, for this they have neither haste nor audacity, because they do not know how to do it, and the worst is that they do not care. [[Applauds]] The controversial left resorts to the European measuring rod to report that in Spain the fiscal pressure is lower, an indicator that does allow us to compare with other countries, but in a simplistic way, since it does not measure how many taxes we pay citizens or which citizens pay them, but how much the state collects. So, if we want to have a true picture of the effort made by businesses and families, we should look at the tax sacrifice that takes per capita income into account. I give you an example, imagine a gentleman who earns 100,000 euros and another gentleman who earns 10,000 euros, and that both are subject to the same fiscal pressure, 40%. Although proportionally they pay the same, who makes the greatest effort? Of course, the one with the lowest income, the one with 10 000. For that is the case in Spain in relation to other countries of the European Union that have a higher income than we do, and precisely this 'view' government wants to equate our fiscal pressure with that of them, with us having a lower income. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we Spaniards would always make a greater sacrifice and tax effort. Since Pedro Sánchez settled in Moncloa, lying to his constituents and to the rest of the nation, he has devoted every minute of the legislature to governing against the interests of Spain and, therefore, against the Spaniards, allied with nationalists and separatists and with lords who used to charge a revolutionary tax, for the sole purpose of shielding sanchismo in power, at the high price of leaving the nation and its citizens unprotected, with a continuous assault on the institutions and the liquidation of the separation of powers. Within these budgets of populism, ruin, surrendered to coup, the taxes are their cornerstone and source from which the Government drinks to spend without ten; a source that the Minister of Finance considers inexhaustible, as well as his collection anxiety, located in historical maxims, due to two factors, or rather to two invoices. One, the one passed by the Government with up to fifty-four tax increases in what we have in the legislature; and two, inflation, a punishment for family savings and a price increase that has contributed to increasing the tax bill of taxpayers without the need to raise taxes in the State Official Gazette. The policies pursued by a government are measured by their results and not by their intentions, as the professor and professor Mr Manso, who is now a member of VOX, said. And it is that separatism sanchism articulates its discourse by dividing the roles of society between good and bad. Yes, a government that advertises itself as a defender of the weak and confronts the wicked, who are the rich and powerful. Do you know anyone in Spain who concentrates more power than Sanchez? It controls the Executive, twisting the Legislature and wants to do it with the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if powerful is synonymous with bad, he would be the most evil in terms of superlative degree. But let us evaluate the facts and not the promises, and what have been the results of the sanchist policies. How are the Spaniards today, better or worse than before Sanchez arrived in the Moncloa? The government that said by mouth to supply that it would not raise taxes to the middle classes and to the workers the only thing that has lowered are the penalties and punishments to the coup and the rapists; the per capita income of the Spaniards, less today than in 2018; the gross domestic product, which does not exceed the figure of 2019; the purchasing capacity of the Spaniards; the quality of education with the general approved; and the expectations of the future for young people and families, condemning them to subsidy and despair. On the other hand, what has been increased with the government of Pedro Sánchez? Inequality among Spaniards, lack of protection for women and insecurity on the streets; the risk of poverty, which already affects more than 13 million Spaniards; public debt, above EUR 1 billion; structural deficit, close to 4%; energy bill; social contributions; and fiscal pressure, from 35% to 39%. This is the summary of the communist social cuts to the prosperity of the Spanish: a greater fiscal pressure and collection record whose achievements have been to increase the gap of inequality and greater poverty for Spanish society as a whole. [[Applauds]] But not satisfied, and in order to further deepen this inequality, injustice and setback, to approve these budgets have vetoed all the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups proposing to reduce taxes, admitting four nationalist amendments of the PNV, which sweep home - that is a classic, of course - to which the compromise amendment with Squerra Republicana adds, which says: you can try to give another coup d'état in Catalonia that we are on sale. [[Applauds]] Finally, and not least, the Spanish must be aware of the need for politicians to demand greater efficiency in public spending - because, after all, that money comes from their pocket - with greater control and transparency, but what to expect from a government of glorious phrases such as that public money is nobody's? The left seeks an economy and a society that is sad, exhausted, surrendered to the public authorities and to the generalized subsidy. Of course, getting this costs money and you have to finance it and what better way to do it than by raising taxes to the right and wrong. The classic recipe of socialism: they sell progress and remain anchored in the 19th century. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. I didn't mean to talk about what I'm going to comment on now, but the truth is that there have been some statements that leave you stuporously. To hear that the law of yes is yes will pass into history... Mr. Guijarro, you haven't been thin, you've already come to history. There had never been a law, the Penal Code, that allowed criminals to be taken out of the street. Annotate yourself. [[Applauds]] And to say what you said about the People's Party, that we will go for the toilet of history, I don't know which country you live in. You don't have a future like python. In four elections, in the last four, the People's Party has won an absolute majority. Do you know what's wrong with you guys? You are no longer Podemos, you are'may' seen what happens here with Mrs Yolanda Díaz, the emeritus pontificating every day and two ministers who are not known - minister or minister - if you are or are expected. It takes courage to come up to this rostrum and say what you have said. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about Title VI. One more year the veto on all the amendments. This year they've been overtaken. Well, one might understand it if there was a single criterion, but, as has already been said here, some yes and others are of identical content not. At last this year we heard the argument. The argument is that we had tabled an amendment as a whole and that, therefore, it was an act of declaration of hostility; that the Government knows very badly and has as its custom - we have heard this year in the Commission - to veto all the amendments. I asked him in the Commission and I will ask him again today, to see if it is an act of affection to come up to this rostrum and leave three red bullets here. Let us see if Mr Sánchez interprets it as an act of friendship and therefore lends himself much more to negotiating with Esquerra than with the People's Party. I hope you'll answer me today. In Title VI our amendments spoke of the possibility of deducting more money from contributions to pension funds, of a reduction in VAT on products of need - especially in those affecting chemotherapy treatments - and spoke of deduction for those who make improvements in the mountains, mainly when talking about repopulating Spain, so that for those who stay in the basic rural world and fundamentally will need policies that encourage that, and what better way than to take care of our mountains. Well, it's been vetoed, too. In short, we are talking about deflating the IRPF rate. Ladies and gentlemen, these are clearly favourable measures for the Spanish. Therefore, little more remains for me to defend. I want to make some considerations on this. We are talking - some spokesman has done it again today - about what the rich are going to pay and this is for the benefit of the poor. I have already explained this in the Commission. In the end, 57 billion more taxes on those who call the rich less than 2 billion who will stop paying those who have a salary of between 15 000 and 21 000 euros, but if they increase their income by 7% - that is, 20 billion - there are 17,000 left who will pay them the usual ones: the middle classes, ladies and gentlemen, seven million Spaniards, with which this government is simply looking elsewhere. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the rich are going to pay, no matter how much they strive, they are going to pay those who support public services, and you should know that the middle class with this government has been weakened, and in what way. The tax pressure has risen two points, 5000 euros more is paid per family since Sánchez ruled. Worse than today's tax effort is 50% more than in Germany. In other words, a Spaniard spends 50% more of his salary than a German to pay taxes on the public finances. That is what we have with this Government. I am going to look at another issue that worries me, because this government is slipping at a dangerous cost. With these budgets one will be able to change a story, a story that began shortly before October 1, 2017, when a few independenceists decided to give a coup d'état, unilaterally proclaimed independence, convened a binding referendum, provoked the intervention of the king in a speech given the gravity of the facts, and the implementation of 155. Now, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, they're trying to make us believe that that was a bottle of a few scumbags that didn't go any further. This is particularly serious and must be joined by what 422 million were spent on promoting the famous referendum. Now they're trying to tell us that that was a little less than a joke and that it's not to embezzle public money when you spend it on talking bad about your country, trying to divide it, trying to criticize it and, above all, saying that there is no democracy in Spain. Believe me, politics had limits until Sanchez arrived. You've blown up all the seams of those ethical boundaries until you've lost your dignity. Let's go to efficiency, because here we repeat the mantra on the part of the Socialist Party that budgets are always good, 2021, 2022. Well, when someone comes up to the rostrum - I'd like it to be Mrs. Mínguez - to explain why there are 400,000 more poor people in Spain than two years ago. If they're so good, how is it possible that there's more poor? If they are so good, how is it possible that half of the Spaniards do not arrive at the end of the month and 21% do not arrive? How is it possible that Spain is the only country that has not recovered GDP in Europe? How is it possible that we are Europe's second most bankrupt country, the second with the biggest trade deficit and the worst-performing country, despite everything you want to tell us? Of course, getting out of the deficit when we are the second most deficit-deficit country in Europe and 1.4 billion debt... Mr. Manso has already explained that interest must be paid. It's just that you guys have that rather forgotten parameter. In short, ladies and gentlemen, that mantra that you constantly repeat, I say to you, is false. I have just finished, Madam President, by saying that, unfortunately, the only thing that these budgets are going to generate is unsustainable structural spending and that history will be repeated again. You're teachers, you left this country broken in 2011 and you're going to do it again. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that when the People's Party spends more than half of its time talking about things other than tax policy, it is clear that they are no alternative and have no alternative for this country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party has a fiscal and tax policy; it is the progressive government chaired by Pedro Sánchez; a fiscal and tax policy developed over the last few years, which has made our fiscal system more progressive and fairer today than at the beginning of the legislature. This is a tax system more adapted to the challenges of digitisation, economic globalization and the fight against climate change, which seeks to protect a social majority and adapts to adverse situations, from a pandemic to a war, always advancing in social cohesion. We have made progress in the fight against tax fraud, with measures for coordination with the outside world and the transposition of European directives, which have succeeded in bringing out hidden funds, assets and economic activities, improving collection. I know that the People's Party does not like this; I know that it is the party that approved that indecent fiscal amnesty. But yes, we have also made progress in progressivity, with measures that ensure that those who have the most pay more, and those who carry out activities in Spain declare here for this reason. We have been pioneers in the minimum taxation of 15% of corporate tax for large companies and consolidated groups; and we have limited 95% of the exemption from dividends and capital gains. We have encouraged financial transactions on a purely speculative basis. And, yes, we have made progress in environmental taxation, so that the most polluter pays, coordinated with European policy. And, beyond being a new cost, because that cost already existed, it is an incentive to protect the environment, with very positive effects on the economy in general, which can also lead to new business opportunities generating new jobs. However, we have improved the collection that has allowed us to protect against adversity and to promote public services. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been possible to protect SMEs, self-employed people and working families more than ever before. And proof of this has been, during the pandemic, extraordinary postponements and fractionations that favored SMEs and self-employed people, which were able to postpone their tax obligations at times of greatest impact of restrictive measures on activity; or, for example, the possibility given to SMEs that they could calculate their fractional payment on the basis of real quarterly profits and not on previous years; facilities, ladies and gentlemen, designed to avoid major closures or evils; that is what we have achieved. And now, given the effects of the war in Ukraine and the rise in prices, action is being taken at the origin, such as, for example, the fall in electricity and gas taxes, which will allow families and the productive fabric to save more than EUR 10 billion to cope with the effects of this war and thus reduce inflation. The result of all this fiscal and tax policy, ladies and gentlemen, far from achieving apocalyptic results, as the right-wing party said, we have managed to recover employment until we reach the historical figure of more than 20 million employees and, moreover, with more employment in sectors of high added value; a growth of employment at a higher rate than that of countries such as Germany or France. In addition, Spain is being the attraction of large private investors, such as Volkswagen, Maersk, Google or Cisco, thanks precisely to the opportunities that open up European funds. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021, with an average inflation of 3%, we managed to raise 15% more thanks to improved employment, increased consumption and improved business performance. There is no doubt that income protection measures have played a very important role, through public aid, ICOs or ERTEs; and today, precisely, we were confirmed by the director of the Tax Agency, who, in the course of the year, of the 19% increase in collection, only 5 percentage points are due to inflation; an increase in collection, which is also helping to adopt measures that are implying a reduction in revenue of more than EUR 3997 million. Therefore, we collect and protect, we collect more and we protect more. [[Applauds]] In addition, according to the latest data, we are the second European country with the lowest level of inflation, only behind France, and, moreover, it is for the second consecutive month, so the government's measures are working. They are positive data, the result of diagnosis and not of self-congratulation. We are well aware that measures must continue to be taken to continue to reduce inflation and, therefore, to alleviate the effects on the social majority, which is the most affected. For this reason, these budgets also contain tax protection measures, such as the reduction of the IRPF, ladies and gentlemen, to 50% of the workers with less income, who will save a total of 1881 million euros. It also includes more input from large companies and discounts for SMEs. In fact, more than 400 000 companies will benefit by reducing the nominal corporate tax rate from 25 % to 23 % for SMEs with turnover of less than EUR 1 million. In addition, more than 500 000 self-employed persons taxing in modules may benefit from an additional 5% discount. Greater taxation of large capital and assets is included, increasing the tax on capital income by more than EUR 200 000. As far as the vetoes are concerned, I would like to say to you that the People's Party has indeed tabled amendments which have been vetoed on it, but they are amendments which, in fact, mean a reduction in revenue and do not indicate where these resources have to be drawn from. I will tell you: in the Community of Madrid they do so, they reduce incomes and what they do is weaken public services such as health care. For example, the deflation announced in the Community of Madrid saves only 45 euros, while the tax gift in the Community of Madrid with the donation bonus and the inheritance represents an average gift of 4200 euros for 0.3% of taxpayers. Therefore, compared to the 0,3 % party, these budgets defend a social majority in this country. In conclusion, simply tell them that I ask them to vote for responsible budgets that move forward in progressivity and social cohesion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. We continue with the debate on Title VII. Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u89	Thank you, President. Again, with these budgets, we check the branches and phobias of the Government by deciding to take precedence over the investment made in communities governed by their parliamentary partners, to the detriment of other communities that, in many cases, far exceed them in GDP. In this regard, for example, the communities most affected by these budgets are Murcia and Castile and León, which are the only ones in which investment decreases, compared to the budgets of the previous year. In the case of the first, for example, its investment has been lost up to 3.6% of the total, compared to 5.5% foreseen for the budgets of this financial year 2022, and in Castile and León it has been increased from 997 million to 955 million by 2023. We are talking about regions that are punished for depopulation and that, in our view, lack significant and sufficient investments that will favour all their economic development in one place, as we say, clearly affected by depopulation. And here we have to talk - we believe it is fundamental - about the necessary reform of the financing system, which was approved by law in 2009. It included the obligation to review the system every five years, as a logical consequence of which it was a matter that was very subject to the economic situation and the situation of each territory at a given time. The seventh additional provision of that law provided that, on a five-year basis, the Standing Technical Committee on Assessment will assess the various structural aspects of the system in order to propose possible modifications, ensuring the autonomy and sufficiency of the communities. Despite this normative forecast, no updates have been made since the system was approved in 2009, thirteen years ago. The system is clearly obsolete and no longer serves the purpose for which it was approved or at least is not able to grant all territories the guarantees of autonomy, sufficiency and budgetary balance that are basic. Moreover, it is an absolutely complex, arbitrary and unjust system, which treats in an unequal way certain autonomous communities, producing remarkable differences between the Spanish. Since it was mandatory to reform it, in 2014, governments of the First People's Party and the Socialist Party have succeeded now, without any of them having wanted to address a matter that, however, when they are in opposition, all consider priority, such as the underfinancing of some autonomous communities that the Minister of Finance herself denounced when she did not hold the post and which, moreover, is in communities such as Andalusia or the Valencian Community, which spend less than the rest of the autonomous communities but have a deficit and greater indebtedness, since they receive less income than the others. The Autonomous Community of Valencia, for example, also has a greater dependence on the financial support of the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, the payment fund to suppliers or the Financing Fund to Autonomous Communities for the need to come to them on a recurrent basis, which would not have happened if the model had been revised when it was playing, in 2014. Moreover, this does not only affect basic public services, such as health, assistance or education, but also affects the potential of many territories to invest in activities that drive economic development, such as R & D+i, internationalisation or infrastructure. In the meantime, what the Government is doing is criminalizing some communities by discussing their financial autonomy, when it should show an unequivocal and urgent commitment to reform a system that has been clearly unjust and obsolete for a long time to ensure, above all else, the equality of the Spaniards, live where they live, and the absence of unjustified territorial privileges such as, for example, the Basque quota, of undisputed constitutional foresight, but which must also be reformed to make it more equitable with respect to the rest of the autonomous communities and, above all, more transparent in its calculation. The quota should reflect the cost to the State of the competences not transferred to the Basque Country, but nevertheless its calculation is enormously biased downwards and is arbitrary, insolidary and opaque, so that the expenditure on basic public services per inhabitant, adjusted to the outlying communities, ends up exceeding by 30 percentage points the average expenditure in the common system communities. As you know, Citizens have been calling for the reform of this autonomous financing system and proposing measures online, by the way, with the main recommendations made by the expert committee set up in 2017, such as the need to simplify the system to make it more transparent and equitable, to make changes in the calculation of the population adjusted to the needs of spending, to increase fiscal responsibility and the autonomy of the communities, to enhance also something that is not fashionable that is cooperation between territories and institutional loyalty or to strengthen materially with technical teams to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. The new funding system - let us hope that some of the main parties in this country will be encouraged to reform - should ensure the following essential principles: equality, in order to ensure effective access to essential public services by all citizens, regardless of where they reside; equity, in order to avoid arbitrary differences in the distribution of resources between communities; transparency, in order to make the system's distribution mechanism clear and understandable to citizens; with sufficient resources to cover the objective spending needs of each territory and fiscal co-responsibility, in order to explicitly define the scope of common services guaranteed by the funding of the system and the additional services to be financed by the autonomous communities from their own resources. These budgets do not provide for anything or take into account anything like this and, therefore, they are not the best that our country can have and set aside, again, the reform of the autonomous financing system. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u91	Thank you, President. We have been studying these budgets for many weeks and we continue to wonder what they really bring to the citizens of Catalonia, in the pocket of the citizens of Catalonia. We have seen in recent weeks many wonderful headlines - this government knows a lot about this - but how do all these headlines move to these budgets and how do they move into real aid to the citizens of Catalonia? From the outset, what does move, and not only in these budgets, but in the previous ones, is a historical debt. Of the budgets of 2021, which were approved with the votes of Catalan parties, of every 100 euros that had to arrive in Catalonia only 35 have arrived, and in what we carry 2022, of every 100 euros that had to arrive in Catalonia only 16 have arrived. And I'm not comparing myself with the other autonomous communities because, just by setting the example of Madrid, if in Catalonia 35 out of every 100 euros have arrived, in Madrid 184 out of every 100 euros have arrived. You say, in those headlines that we are investigating how they move to these budgets, that they care about and care about the business fabric, small and medium-sized enterprises and also the municipalities; but in these budgets we see, from the outset, that the contribution of the Government of Spain to SMEs - not entering the European contribution - decreases by 12.6%, one of the largest of all the items in these budgets, when we all know, if we listen to small and medium-sized enterprises, that the situation of the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people in Catalonia is alarming. Many of them, many of them, will have to close because they cannot cope with this energy crisis. How do you intend to help them? Because these budgets we have been debating since last week do not include any aid to deal with this energy crisis. How are you going to pay the bills for the light the city halls? I don't know if you talk to the municipalities, how are you going to help the municipalities pay the bills for the light? [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] That is why we are tabling amendments for extraordinary aid funds for small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities: one of EUR 10 billion and another of EUR 6 billion. We did it because they're asking us to. And what have you done? Dialog? This term they use so much and that they boast so much. Have you spoken with us to negotiate this fund? Have they done politics? No, no, You have vetoed the amendments and remained so broad. How do we explain this to the municipalities, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people? Do you have an alternative to these funds? Neither. I insist that these budgets that we are discussing do not cover these aids. What you do say - you don't tell us, we read it in the press - is that you are passing royal Macedonian decrees and in some you include shock measures to deal with the energy crisis. In these royal decrees, apart from these shock measures, we also find a compensation - exactly in Royal Decree 14/2022 - of 1360 million euros to compensate the big electric companies for a tax that the People's Party has imposed and that it is not necessary to compensate now when there are small and medium-sized enterprises and autonomous ones that cannot cope with the bill of light. In the Royal Decree 18/2022 you recompensate the big Spanish electric companies in case these shock measures that you are approving can cause them some discomfort or loss, to the same big Spanish electric companies that in just nine months of this year have billed more than 33% more than last year, more than 33%. This is almost the departure of the small and medium-sized enterprises aid fund which we have asked for EUR 10 billion. I think I have asked you this before, but I ask you again: Where should we call to do politics here, Socialist and Communist ladies and gentlemen? Where should we call? Because the only thing we have received from you are magnificent headlines and vetoes. This is what we have received from you. Another issue - to see if it gives me time to talk about it - is that of the funds and the autonomous communities. You have voted against an amendment which we tabled at one of the meetings of the Committee on Budgets last week in which we called for the co-management of European funds. It is not an invention of Together this, it is a commitment that you have made to have some votes of a Catalan party in the previous budgets. This co-management has never arrived. You always - in these wonderful headlines - tell us about your willingness to manage European funds, but the reality is another. That is why we say that your public discourse is totally contrary to what you end up reflecting or legislating. You voted last week against managing European funds with the Autonomous Communities. Why do we want management? Because when you manage the money, you don't get to Catalonia. The Government of Spain does not pay Catalonia and Catalonia is on the line. Catalonia is in place 15 of 17 to receive European funds. We're in line, the money doesn't reach Catalonia. And not only of the European funds, but also of the general budgets of the State - of every 100 euros, only 35 in 2021 have arrived and of every 100 euros only 16 in 2022 - and of the investments that you had planned for ADIF rolls, which have only reached 24 euros of every 100 euros that you had to arrive. I insist, if you look at investments in other autonomy, that's where the money comes from.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u92	Mrs. Nogueras, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u93	The corporal. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u95	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Title VII of the article sets out the legal requirements necessary for the financing of local authorities and our autonomous communities, and it does so by taking as one of its foundations a law, the law of the autonomous financing system which the Rajoy Government should have replaced by 2014 and which is still in force today. For this reason, it should be recognized that, with the same legal framework expired in the Rajoy era, thanks to these budgets the local authorities and the autonomous communities reach the highest level of funding they have ever obtained. These budgets make it clear that, regardless of the framework, it takes political will and wanting to govern thinking about people, because being patriotic is working for the well-being of the Spaniards and not just for the well-being of a few. This is what this progressive coalition government does, politics putting people at the center. Citizens are tired of hearing in this Chamber parties that are called patriots, but that do not respect the Constitution, that want to eliminate the autonomous communities, that do not support the ERTE that benefits workers, that do not support the aid to SMEs and the autonomous, that do not support the minimum living income for when families have problems and that do not only support the revaluation of pensions so that they do not lose our greatest purchasing power, but also that they want to impound society by confronting grandparents with grandchildren. [[Applauds]] Citizens are well aware of who attends to their immediate needs, which are the municipalities and autonomous governments, and that is why the extreme right wants them to disappear. The approval of the budgets for 2023 will mean a 17% increase in its resources. It should be added that, although additional provisions are made, these budgets also incorporate measures such as the investment reserve for the Balearic Islands, which will increase the reinvestment of private benefits in the island territory. This expansion of resources available to the autonomous communities and local authorities is of vital importance to ensure not only the welfare of the social majority, but also economic growth in the short and medium term. Together with European funding, our communities will be able to establish plans for the diversification of the economy and be more resilient in the vavenes of this market model and will be able to boost renewable energies to reduce the bill for light and make our country less dependent. In the Balearic Islands we already have a public energy company and with the progressive coalition government in the medium term we will be able to be self-sufficient and eliminate energy poverty. And, as much as it hurts the right, a multitude of world-class institutions and economists recognize that the austerity imposed by the People's Party not only poisoned the economy and delayed the recovery of economic growth and employment, but ruined thousands and thousands of families and with them the hope of many young people for a certain future. The Socialist Party must reflect: we must eliminate the constitutional amendment, which it pushed together with the People's Party, to include budgetary balance and the prioritization of payment to creditors ahead of social spending as a constitutional precept. The years have confirmed the predictions of Unidad Podemos and it has been found that such measures were not only ineffective, but were detrimental to the economic growth, job creation and the economy of families. It is clear the importance that this Government gives, with Unity We can row, that the well-being of all people is always before the well-being of a few. And we regret that in some communities this expansion of resources is not used to improve health, education and public services in general, that is, the welfare state for which the workers of our country fought so hard, but is used for the benefit of brothers and friends of corrupt rulers. We support the citizen mobilization that demands what is fair and efficient, which will not allow social security to be dismantled for the benefit of those who only pretend to fill their pockets with private health care. There is no doubt that it will change the political situation in the next electoral cycle, passing bill to those who let their elders die in the residences or who allowed light cuts to hundreds of families in the Royal Cañada. [[Applauds]] Meanwhile, this progressive government will continue to bring Spain closer to European public spending standards, which are the only guarantee of equity, well-being and economic growth in the short and medium term. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jover. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Title VII, which we are debating now, only two amendments have been tabled, to Rule 93 and 113, which have been rejected by the Government and I will therefore make no reference to them. The presentation of the draft law of the general budgets of the State, the so-called yellow book, in relation to this Title VII gives a very eloquent data regarding the situation to which we have arrived - I am sure that quotes -: 'As a result of this process of decentralization, in Spain today more than 43 % of public expenditure is managed by autonomous communities and local corporations, while the central administration, without including the funds of Social Security, manages approximately 23 % of total expenditure', - closure quotes -. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the PSOE, for the joy of the nationalists, enemies of Spain, have surrendered the once solid Spanish state and diluted it in a realm of taifas with very serious consequences. [[Applauds]] This level of decentralization of the State was not even remotely in the mind of the 1978 Constituent Legislator, who illuminated the possibility of setting up autonomous communities for a few territories, with the naive belief that the few nationalist at the time conformed to a certain level of self-government. This naive and therefore guilty confidence of the constituent was soon betrayed by the continued and dissatisfiedness of those nationalists, who continue to show today that they will always want something more. The last example we had a few days ago: as soon as President Sánchez made public that he made the rule of law before Catalan coupsmen by eliminating the criminal type of sedition, Mr Rufián declared that that was not enough and set the new target on the type of embezzlement. In this context, the most disloyal to Spain have always benefited. Why do PP and PSOE presidents strive to surrender to those who attack Spain from within? It is a shame that we are left alone in this battle. In the Canary Islands they are already responsible for the People's Party announcing their post-election pacts with the Canary Coalition. Are you not aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the serious damage that Spain is causing to achieve or maintain quotas of power in public institutions? How far are they willing to betray Spain? How long? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the PSOE, you have shown that, since the nationalists do not limit their demands, you do not limit your betrayal of Spain for its spurious and miserable party interests. [[Applauds]] For the PSOE this betrayal has a particularly striking hue, those who claim to promote equality have contributed to the development of the largest generator of inequalities in the national territory: the autonomous communities, which have dedicated themselves to multiplying inequalities and discrimination due to the territory of residence in many areas such as taxation, education and public health. We are now seeing this in the area of complaints about the management of public health in some autonomous communities. The differences between communities should be ashamed to rule by preaching equality among the Spaniards. His betrayals have exceeded any moral limit. I cannot forget the speech in this very rostrum of my colleague Antonio Salvá, the father of Diego Salvá, the civilian guard killed by ETA, in which he manifested the pain that caused him to see the political representatives of the terrorist band ETA no longer only on the street, but in institutions like this House, charging a public salary. [[Applauds]] People's Party and PSOE agreed on a Political Parties Act to exclude from the institutions the promoters of violence against the Spaniards and their institutions, and the same parties, PP and PSOE, agreed on a Constitutional Court that betrayed the Spaniards, undermining the work of the security forces and bodies of the State and the judiciary. They opened the door of institutions to the miserable and cowardly murderers of so many innocent Spaniards, including, without deceiving themselves, the betrayal of their own victims and their families. How far are they willing to go? When will the minutes of the negotiation with ETA that we have requested be made public? The Spaniards have the right to know the price you put on our dignity. [[Applauds]] All this is not postulated by left or right, but by common sense. They have left us to those of VOX, but more and more Spaniards are opting for this political instrument at the service of Spain, which does not promote a Spain divided into sides, but defends the union of all Spaniards on basic and essential issues in our life such as food, security, health, the defense of private property, religious freedom, freedom of thought, freedom of choice in relation to the education of children and a long series of fundamental rights and freedoms that have been taken away from the Spaniards and silenced in the political debate. VOX has come to reopen these debates which the consensus of the People's Party and the PSOE considered closed in order to recover these fundamental rights and freedoms in favour of all Spaniards, regardless of their political convictions. It is clear from the foregoing that the State of self-government in no way assists in the efficient management of the services to be provided by public administrations. The state of autonomy has been the mine in which the political class has found the line to develop a mastodontic welfare state for its comrades, friends and family, replicating state structures and institutions that no Spanish would miss if closed tomorrow. It has also been the battlefield in which PP and PSOE have surrendered to Spain in favor of the nationalists who want to break it and it has been the rake in which equality and peace among the Spaniards has been given. In VOX we will give that battle until the last consequences on the political, the judicial and the social. There is no other solution, we must dismantle the autonomous state and give back to the Spaniards their unity, their dignity and their money. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u98	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u99	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. For the third year in a row, I must start my speech by pointing out that these General State Budgets are not the ones that Spain and the Spaniards need to recover the lost prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, both last year and the previous year my parliamentary group pointed out that the budgets presented by the Government were the most direct way to move our country away from recovery and employment, and for the third year in a row the Government and its partners aggravated the mistakes made in past years. Once again, the Government is re-supporting the State's General Budgets in forecasts that are far from reality, as Spain would grow by 4.4% this year and by 2.1% in 2023. Last Friday, the European Commission reduced Spain's growth forecast to 1% by 2023, 1.1 points below its July estimate and almost half the government forecast. If we talk about inflation, the Commission has estimated that it will close the year by 8.5% and in 2023 by 4.8%, 4 tenths and 1.4 points more than the government expected. Many institutions are already talking about the false data from these budgets: the European Commission, the Banco de España, FUNCAS and AIReF. These budgets bring us to ruin, ladies and gentlemen. We have increased spending by more than €100 billion compared to 2018. For example, high-level expenditure increases by EUR 144 million, 18.3% more than last year and 37% more than in 2018. In these budgets the most important thing is the collection: 2 out of 3 new euros collected by the government are paid by families and only 1 by businesses, and within families it is the middle classes that bear the greatest tax burden, as they represent 35% of taxpayers and contribute 59% of the income tax. The Government also continues to support these General State Budgets in its unreal expectations of growth based on European funds, and there are already many institutions, also the General State Intervention, which say that by 30 September 2022 only €63 billion of payments had been made, i.e. 22% of the total budget for this year. They are unreal, untransparent budgets that do not help our country's recovery or alleviate the problems of citizenship. Our parliamentary group has tabled more than two thousand amendments, half of which have been rejected, as more than one thousand six hundred partial amendments tabled by many parliamentary groups have been rejected. For example, the government team has rejected amendments to improve the Civil Guard headquarters in many municipalities in Spain, I imagine simply because they owe great thanks to parties like Bildu; for the recovery of some face-to-face activities of the Administration in unpopulated areas of Spain; for the increase in the allocation of the conciliation and co-responsibility plan, with a million euros; for the implementation of a plan of aid to the business sector in order to help the hourly flexibility. And so a very long et cetera. There has been little respect for democracy and the debate on these amendments in Parliament has been stolen. And, if we are talking about the autonomous communities and the local entities, we must add to the qualifications for these General State Budgets those of insufficient, unjust and discriminatory. Insufficient because the departure of more than 7 billion euros with which the Government wanted to help the municipalities to deal with the consequences of the pandemic and the war in Ukraine disappears, and both effects, especially the war in Ukraine, are still here, but the 7 billion euros of aid to the autonomous communities and the municipalities have flown out of the budget. Unrighteous because they again ignore the needs of the autonomous communities and the municipalities. It seems a lie that you rule in 2650 municipalities in this country. Perhaps, as the PP governs more, 2789, you decide to discriminate them all. [[Applauds]] And discriminatory because they take precedence over one more year only the autonomous communities governed by you. The only autonomous communities that see their investment reduced are those governed by the People's Party: Murcia, 33.5% less; Castile and León, 4.2% less; and in Ceuta, investment is reduced by 3.9%. And in the communities where the PSOE participates in the government, an average increase of 13%. Catalonia will receive 2509 million compared to 2318 in Andalusia and 1305 in Madrid. Madrid, with 14% of the Spanish population, receives only 9.7% of territorialised investments from these general budgets. However, the EUR 2509 million that Catalonia receives in this budget represents 17.2% of the total and 92% more than in the previous year. In the three budgets of this government of Sánchez, investments in Madrid have grown by only 4.6%, compared to 32.7% of the rest of the autonomous communities. Madrid is the fourth region with the lowest investment per inhabitant, 193.35 euros per Madrid, while in Catalonia there are 297.45 euros and in the Valencian Community 250.97 euros. You continue to discriminate against those autonomous communities that are not governed by the block of the motion of censure. In addition, you again insist on the idea of harmonising taxes, invading the financial autonomy of the communities recognized by the Constitution and, especially, attacking Madrid, where this tax is subsidized to one hundred percent. The tax on wealth, as the Economic Advisor has pointed out, is unconstitutional and, moreover, injuriously vindictive. And, if we talk about local entities, the growth of funding in 2023 will be lower than experienced in 2022, and the funding associated with the Recovery and Resilience Plan will hardly be 32% of the budgeted in the previous year. Amendments tabled by my parliamentary group, such as applying 60 million euros more to the Regional Transport Consortium, creating new stations of proximity in Barajas, Arganzuela, Pinto or San Fernando de Henares, improving accessibility in stations of Móstoles, Leganés, Fuenlabrada or Getafe, investing 3 million euros in new barracks or in the reform of barracks of the Civil Guard or 4 million euros in police stations of different municipalities, the fact that the parliamentary group here and in the Madrid Assembly rejects amendments to improve the expansion and frequencies of line C5, which has to reach Alcorcón, Fuenlabrada, Leganés and Móstoles. [[Applauds]] You should bet on our amendments, create a tourist pass, a strategic housing plan for young people or lower the VAT on diapers to 4%. We have little hope because of this undemocratic spirit of vetoing the amendments of my group. For once, let him look at it. There was a Socialist Party that was a municipalist and believed in the autonomous communities. Go back to the sense of state. Call for general elections, we'll go out and win them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u100	Thank you, Mr. González. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Padilla Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u101	Thank you, President. We are discussing Title VII of the General Budgets of the State for 2023, which, as you know, concerns local authorities and autonomous communities, and I stress this because you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, have remained in the pre-constitutional debate. Briefly, I'll give you some notes. You do not believe in the State of Autonomy and come to question the organization of the State that the Democrats adopted forty-four years ago and that is reflected in Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution, a State of Autonomy that has contributed so much to the progress of this country and to us being equaled. [[applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the state of autonomy has allowed autonomous communities such as Extremadura or like mine, Castilla-La Mancha, which you only cared about when you came to hunt, to have been able to grow exceptionally, to enjoy quality public services, to have ceased to be a land of passage, to have important companies and invest in your territories today, or to be able to contribute definitively and decisively to the deployment of renewable energies in our country, because we have decided to do so. But in addition, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, while you question the state of autonomy, you sit in the armchairs of the government of Castile and León and demand an increase in the posts and, of course, the corresponding salaries, which increase by more than a million euros a year. So put on the adjective yourself. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I shall begin by quoting Mr González Terol: the general budgets of 2023 are the fastest and most direct way to move recovery and employment away. No, man, no! No, man, no! The model that furthest away from recovery is the one that you imposed in the previous crisis, which caused unemployment, cuts and an absolute deterioration of public services in this country and whose recovery has also cost ten years. [[applause]] And if we've managed to recover in ten years, it's because you've been out of government for five years. So the fastest and most direct way away from recovery is you. We are faced with general State budgets that, in addition to providing security and stability at a time of great uncertainty caused by the war in Ukraine, strengthen the welfare state and consolidate economic growth, among other important milestones, increase resources for the autonomous communities and municipalities, and not only increase them, but we are faced with a record figure. It is a record in funding system resources: for the autonomous communities and autonomous cities will be 135,274 million euros that will be allocated in the next year, 24% more than in 2022, and for the local entities, 23,235 million euros for the year 2023, 5% more than in 2022. These are the figures which you, gentlemen of the People's Party, find insufficient. If we put them in perspective, they may change their minds: in five years of government of Pedro Sánchez the autonomous communities will receive 178,743 million euros more than in the five years of Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] What do you think? Do you think that's a good thing? In other words, the autonomous communities receive with Pedro Sánchez 40% more than with Rajoy. So I understand that what you gave must seem ridiculous to you, an insult or at least 40% more insufficient than this year's budgets. You know quite well that budgets are good for the autonomous communities and for the municipalities, but the moderate of your boss does not let them say so. Of course, the general budgets of the State contain funds from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. In the title we discuss are about 6400 million euros for autonomous communities and 1381 million euros for local entities. We already know that you did not want the funds to come to Spain, that you did everything possible to prevent them from arriving, but since the President of the Government has succeeded, as you are here, because they are being implemented since you are benefiting the country throughout the territory, citizens, businesses, public administrations, large cities and unpopulated areas, unless you are not noticed that it bothers you, because they are left, in fact, quite unpatriotic. Although I would like to finish my speech by asking you for your support for the 2023 budgets, which are necessary budgets for the country, after the so complicated legislature that we have led and its non-permanent to grab the shoulder, I will limit myself to asking you to be consistent, gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, they cannot abstain three times to make the decision to appreciate the extraordinary emergency situation that we are experiencing from the pandemic explosion to now, to the war in Ukraine, so that the Government could suspend the spending rules and respond to all needs and now ask for more budget. You are not entitled to ask for a budget increase, let alone in this title. They cannot refuse to enter more than EUR 1 billion in the Community of Madrid, forgiving the wealth tax to the richest and, at the same time, asking for more money from the autonomous communities where taxes are paid. [[Applauds]] So, gentlemen of the People's Party, rekindle, be consistent. To the rest of the groups, to the Members who assume their responsibility with the citizenship of their territories and of the whole country I would like to say that, even if they are not the ideal budgets, although each of us made a different budget - now that we are in the World Cup, I am sure that each of us would make an alignment of the Spanish selection - I thank them for supporting these budgets, because they are good for the country, for the working social majority, for the economy, for the companies, for the elderly, for the youth, for the dependent people, for the women and for the young people who aspire to get a scholarship to study. These are the budgets the country needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Padilla. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u103	For allusions. Article 71. I would like to clarify to Congresswoman Padilla that it is true that this parliamentary group defends a model different from the autonomous model that is contained in the Constitution, but by constitutional means... [[rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u104	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u106	But it's not a...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u107	...what his allies do not do with Article 2, which proclaims the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation... [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. It is not a debate, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Finally, we move on to the joint debate on the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions and annexes. In defence of amendments, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u109	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Since the beginning of this legislature, we have denounced from this rostrum the commission by the Spanish Government of innumerable frauds with regard to the ordinary legislative procedure that prevents our Constitution and also with regard to the Rules of the House. We have had real decrees laws that do not respond to situations of extraordinary and urgent need, we have the processing of this proposed law of the parliamentary groups of the PSOE and United We can regarding taxes to banks and energy, which we will see on Thursday this week and which introduces a new tax through an amendment, absolutely incredible thing. And we have, above all, the abuse of the veto. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what the veto means. We don't want to talk about this. We don't even want to discuss this. We do not want to discuss this and then vote and enrich all of us with the different positions of the various parliamentary groups. The Government prefers not to speak. The government prefers not to talk about the more than one hundred and twenty proposals that Citizens make in these general state budgets. And I am drawn, of course, to the speech of the spokesman for the Socialist Party that I have just heard in the rostrum. He says very gloriously that these are the budgets of the people, of the young, of the self-employed, the budgets against depopulation, the budgets of women. These are Spain's best budgets, which will also improve the lives of all the collectives that exist in Spain. So look, I want to tell you, for everyone to know, that the Spanish Government does not even want to talk about the reduction of VAT to hairdressing services. He doesn't even want to talk about the deflation of the IRPF. He doesn't even want to talk about a deduction for those who suffer the increase in variable mortgage types. He doesn't even want to talk about tax support for start-ups. He does not even want to talk about deductions in corporation tax to people, to entrepreneurs who hire people who are unemployed. He does not even want to talk about support for private savings systems in pension schemes. They don't even want to talk about supporting the savings of the self-employed. He does not even want to talk about a deduction plan for people who voluntarily want to contribute their housing to a rental plan that favors young people. He does not want to talk about a budget allocation for the suicide prevention plan and for a national strategy against pain. He does not want to talk about just EUR 100 million to alleviate the economic suffering of people who suffer from this horrible disease, which is the ALS, for which today they have again extended the deadline for partial amendments. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party wants the sick of ALS to die without getting a single help from the state, and that must be said. They have vetoed EUR 100 million for those who suffered thalidomide, but only the Citizens' Amendment, not Bildu's, because, as Mr Guijarro honestly acknowledged in the Commission, those who have tabled an amendment as a whole must be punished by removing the amendments. But don't you realize that those who punish are the sick of thalidomide, not my parliamentary group? But do they not realize that they are punishing Spanish citizens and not those we propose good measures? [[Applauds]] We are barred from the replacement rate of health and research personnel and we are barred from a health reserve body for crisis situations. The most progressive government in history has vetoed us the biggest increase in IPREM, the index through which social aid is granted. This progressive government does not want to hear about tax benefits to help companies in training costs for people with disabilities. He did not want to hear about a reduced VAT rate for poor and underage people, for people with disabilities. He does not want to hear about bonuses to companies that hire people who benefit from minimum living income. He does not want to hear about universal support for upbringing. He did not want to hear about the extension of maternity benefits to all mothers. He does not want to hear about a VAT reduced to 4% in diapers. But it even vetoes measures that have no budget cost. We ask you to study the implementation of the Austrian backpack, not to implant it, and also to veto it. We ask you to study a better system of financing for the Autonomous Communities, not to establish it, and also to veto it. This government, as the honourable Member who spoke earlier on behalf of the Socialist Party said, is in the budget with young people. The Socialist Party is the youth party, and that's why we're barred from €5 million in a scholarship and internship scheme for young people within the public administration. So, really, you're the young people's party. In addition, we are barred from high educational inspection. We are not allowed to hand over part of the IRPF to the municipalities. They also veto EUR 500 000 simply for a broadband connection in rural areas and a specific tax plan for depopulated areas, and you say that these are the budgets of depopulated areas. And they're still killing an educational MIR, like that of Finland, for all of Spain. We are barred from the equalization of lawyers on duty throughout the national territory. We are given the support of a prosecutor's office in the field of intellectual property or support to the prosecutor's office that fights organized crime. We are barred from equal pay for lawyers of the administration of justice, whose powers have increased. We are barred from the wage dignity of prison officials, which costs only EUR 93 million. We are being vetoed the salary equality of the State Security Forces and Corpses and we are being vetoed even the agreement reached with the Minister of Defence, simply an honorary promotion of some soldiers who are already older and who only want to be able to ascend without any economic reward. And you know why they veto it? Because it comes from Citizens. Yes, Mr Guijarro, you have to punish us for having tabled an amendment to the whole, but you are punishing these soldiers. And that's how you veto us, because you don't want to talk in a place called Parliament. They just want to talk to those who want the worst for Spain. You see in the league, gentlemen of the PSOE, what you have become. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u110	Thank you, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u111	Thank you, President. We are in the specific section of the additional provisions and the final provisions, and I will ask you for your attention on a number of amendments. Some, Mr Bal, are vetoed, because we too are being vetoed amendments, and I do not say that it is a practice that I like, but although I am being vetoed amendments, I try to maintain negotiations with the Government, in the hope that the veto will be lifted and that some of them will be able to deal with them, because this is exactly what the negotiation is about. I will ask you to support some of the amendments, all of them very good, as you will be able to understand and understand. I hope that you will have the opportunity to vote on them throughout tomorrow and, if so, that you will support them. I will ask you to support Amendment 2619, which seeks to consider the Ryder Cup, which is to be held in Girona in 2031, as an event of exceptional public interest. At the d2660, to consider the Open Barcelona, the Trophy Count of Godó, on the occasion of its 70th anniversary and the 125th anniversary of the club, as of exceptional public interest, as well as the Consulate of the Sea - yes, surely you have interest -, which this year celebrates its 750 years, and the book of Les Costums de Tortosa, which can be understood as the first code of legislation in Catalan and which also celebrates its 750 years. I will therefore also ask you to vote in favour of this event of particular public interest, as well as for the Congress of the International Union of Architects, which is to be held in 2025 in Barcelona, and which I am sure you will also be able to support. I also ask you to support a number of very important amendments concerning the celebration of the America Cup in Barcelona. I am sure that you will not have any doubts either and that all of you will vote in favour, because you will be very similar to the tax and other benefits - social security, port charges, radio public domain charges - of those of the America Cup when it was held in Valencia. I therefore hope to get unanimity on this. I am also asking you for attention, because I know that some of you share it perfectly, for Amendment 2648. It is the one that seeks that the mechanism of advance rents for persons who are due at the end of their life to enter a residence serves them in order to be able to pay the residence without detaching from the family property the usual housing. It is a matter of establishing the same tax benefits and the same treatment in registered and notarial tariffs as for reverse mortgages for this rental advance mechanism. I therefore also look forward to your support. There is also a problem that, without wishing to do so, tax cooperatives currently have, as a result of the implementation of labour reform, which implies that many of these cooperatives must fix workers who cannot yet join as working partners. It is therefore a question of increasing the limit from 10% to at least 20% to solve this problem to the cooperative world. I also hope to count on your support. Therefore, these and some more of the final and additional provisions are defended and I ask you to vote in favour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Manglano Albacar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u113	Madam President, one of the worst tragedies that the government of Pedro Sánchez will leave as a legacy will be the division between Spaniards. Spain is today more divided than it was in 2018, when Sánchez arrives in the Moncloa, and will be even more divided when Sánchez loses the elections and abandons the Moncloa, hopefully sooner than later. The new Government will have to face great challenges, including economic and institutional, but the most serious challenge will undoubtedly be to cure the deep wounds that this Government has caused to our coexistence, and the worst is that these wounds have not been the result of chance, but have been sought, have been loved. Discord is not an undesirable consequence of the work of this Government, it is its main objective. Pedro Sánchez understands politics only as polarization, as confrontation and as partition, he did it with the Socialist Party and he is doing it with Spain. To make politics for Pedro Sánchez is to make enemies. Faced with any problem, your priority will never be to find a solution, your priority will be to point to the enemy to blame for the problem. With this you will be able to keep tight the ranks of your associates and thus ensure the majority necessary to continue governing. Therefore, between a solved problem or an identified enemy, Sanchez will always choose the enemy. In Pedro Sánchez's perverse logic, his enemies are his best political allies. The negotiation of the General Council of the Judiciary is the paradigmatic example of this logic. The Government has never missed the opportunity to sabotage a possible agreement to renew it. Why? Because it is much more valuable to have an enemy to attack, in this case the PP, than a solved problem. We've also seen it with the 'yes yes' law. Sánchez has supported his Equality Minister instead of ceasing. Why? Because every excuse to attack judges must be used, even under a law that allows rapists to go out on the street. I insist, the goal is always to seek enemies and not to seek solutions. In this way the problems accumulate and the coexistence in Spain deteriorates. To that extent, even a law with the eminent capacity to benefit and unite the Spaniards, such as the budget law, has become in the hands of this Government an instrument to aggravate divisions. They have done so both with the background and with the form of this law. On the merits, the objective of the budgets has not been to square income and expenditure, it has been to square crime and impunity. The State's accounts have thus been linked to the abolition of the sedition offence of the Criminal Code. This is not going to improve coexistence in Catalonia, say what you say, quite the contrary, what it is going to do is to ensure that those who said they would do it again will do it again. How they won't do it if they're going to get away with it for free. Also, after exchanging budgets for prisoners in previous years, they are now exchanging them for a rewrite of democratic memory. Designating Bildu as a notary of our Transition means turning the executioners into albaceas in the memory of their victims. On the other hand, in terms of form, the processing of budgets has been an exercise of sectarianism and intransigence. They have been dealt with quickly, shortening deadlines to a minimum and preventing all parliamentary groups from improving these accounts. An example of this is its veto over 1000 amendments, 300 of them from the PP. The People's Party has tabled 2,300 amendments to the budgets. These amendments were an invitation to improve the text, an invitation to dialogue and an invitation to listen to each other. The Government has thrown the 2300 amendments in our face. Not only have they not approved one, but, seeing us three hundred of them, they have not even wanted them to be considered. Let me then give you three examples of amendments tabled by the PP to the section we are dealing with, that of final and additional provisions. First, the VAT reduction of the basic shopping basket. This discount will benefit all Spaniards, but even more those who need it most, since people with lower incomes allocate a higher percentage of their income to eat. Secondly, the adjustment of income tax to inflation. This discount will benefit all Spaniards, but even more the middle class, the more than 10 million families with incomes of between 15,000 and 60,000 euros. And third, the special employment plans in those autonomous communities where the unemployment rate is above the national average, because it would reduce gaps between Spaniards. As you see, the PP has tabled amendments thinking of the well-being of all Spaniards, but this is considered an insult by the current government, because it cannot benefit politically. That is why our amendments have been rolled out. I'm finishing up. The Spanish families today are 6% poorer than in 2019, we are the only European country that has not recovered its pre-pandemic GDP level and the Spanish public debt has just exceeded 1.5 billion euros. Each Spanishman has a debt of more than 30,000 euros on his back, which must be paid by his children and grandchildren. I mean, the Spaniards today have less and we owe more than when Pedro Sánchez came to the government. But, despite everything, it is not the only poverty that will leave us as the legacy of the Socialist Government, it will also leave us with the poverty of division, the poverty of discord and the poverty of the confrontation between Spanish people. His obsession with seeking enemies has led to the identification today not only of the political right, but also of judges, history, the media, private and concerted schools, homeowners, hunters, farmers, the self-employed, the Armed Forces, police and civil guards, tourists, large companies, the Madrid Community, the Bank of Spain and, worst of all, legality. You have turned legality into the enemy of coexistence when it is precisely your basis and guarantee, this is simply immoral. When they change the legality to favor a few powerful, they dynamize the coexistence in Catalonia and, therefore, throughout Spain, because there is nothing more lethal for social harmony than perverting the legality to the direct benefit of a few privileged. For as long as they remain in power they will strive to continue to exploit any problem to generate enemies, rather than finding solutions, but ultimately they will fail, because the Spaniards basically want coexistence and a government that promotes it. Therefore, when they have the opportunity to do so, the Spaniards will send them to the wasteland of history and their years of division and confrontation will become a bad memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u114	Thank you, Mr. Manglano. Mr Guijarro García has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u115	President, before reading the speech I have before me written by my colleague Pilar Garrido, who was unable to come today, I would like to answer a couple of questions raised in this debate. Mr Manglano, you said that before the general budgets of the State were used to generate little more or less than a spontaneous consensus in the House and that they have now become a battleground little less than bloody. I do not know, perhaps I have lived in another country but the feeling I have is that the debates of the general budgets of the State have always been a field of political dispute, today, yesterday, forty years ago and in another forty years will also be a field of political dispute. There will not be that spontaneous consensus which you presume and which, of course, the rest do not know. As for Mr Bal, I hear from you from this rostrum that litany, that endless list of great things you could do if it weren't for this terrible government. I was listening to you unravel that list and I was wondering, how do you want to pay it if this gentleman doesn't want to collect taxes? I fell there and said, "Ah, of course, you want to brush the pensions. Sure, that's how they solve everything, they take out your pensions, and that's what you pay for, come on, even champagne for everyone. It is true that pensions cost a lot of money, Mr Bal, they cost a lot of money precisely because it is part of the welfare state we want to preserve. Indeed, if you don't like it now everything starts to square me, everything in numerical terms starts to square me. Having already entered into the contents of this chapter which are, by the way, in the additional, transitional and derogatory provisions of these budgets, I would like to point out a couple of matters. First, with regard to the change in the productive model that these budgets contribute to encouraging and encouraging, some additional provisions, in particular the forty-third and forty-sixth, should be highlighted. In particular, a maximum amount of no less than EUR 1.5 billion is approved for the operations of the Industrial Investment Support Fund for the year 2023, which is also a new instrument developed in this legislature. This new mechanism not only replaces but also improves in various respects the Reindus programme in such dimensions as the power of expenditure, the ways in which the State participates in the contracting companies or the flexibility in which the companies can apply for these funds. Without a doubt, they are elements that help to boost the green industrial transition that our country needs. In the social sphere we can highlight the subsidies that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is putting in place in the fight against gambling addiction. First, for the realization of activities and studies by non-profit entities that create safer environments for the game. Secondly, for the realization of activities and studies of the treatment of addictive behaviors by hospitals of the National Health System that create safer environments; both actions are financed, of course, with income from the fee for the administrative management of the game. These measures complement those implemented by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs to protect the most vulnerable from the negative effects of gambling. Finally, we should highlight the young cultural bonus, which is also reflected in the additional provisions of these budgets. This is a measure that demonstrates the commitment of this Government to a coalition for culture and youth. In short, we have no doubt that we have an expansive budget, with a strong social expenditure that meets the commitment of this Government, with the public services, with the commitment to update the pensions according to the CPI - complying with the Law 21/2021 that we approved a year ago to guarantee the purchasing power of the pensions -, with the commitment to support the most vulnerable groups and with the necessary approach of changes of focus in our productive model. In spite of all this, I would like to end this intervention by mentioning some absences, that is, some content that we miss in these provisions. As you know, the content of these budgets is largely the result of an agreement and that means that, like any good agreement, things are always left out. That is not why we are going to stop claiming some of the elements that I am going to detail below. Firstly, we must regret the veto on the part of the Government - because the Government also vetoes the parliamentary groups, at least the group that supports it - on the amendments we are submitting to the final provisions of the law to introduce protective measures in the area of housing, which are necessary in the housing emergency situation that we have been living in this country for too long, too long. The housing law is a commitment of this Government and unfortunately its processing remains stalled, it remains bogged down in this House, which remains of the utmost concern to my group. To unlock this situation we think we have to walk in several directions. Firstly, to comply with the international commitments ratified by Spain in the field of human rights, mainly to end forced evictions without housing alternatives. In addition, a number of social obligations must be imposed to co-responsible large housing holders in guaranteeing the right to housing in our country, such as the provision of social rents to families from vulnerable sectors as a requirement for any legal action to claim rents, mortgages or to recover housing. It should also contribute to the containment of rental prices through intervention in the rental market, especially in stressed areas. A year ago this sounded mathematical, but once we discovered that the government can intervene in prices, and that's good for citizens, we again stress the need to intervene in the rental market, especially in stressed areas. [[Applauds]] I will also mention the need to help ensure greater security of tenure and to offer tax reductions for real estate returns to owners who act with fiscal responsibility. In conclusion, I would simply like to ask this House a rhetorical question: for when is a housing law, ladies and gentlemen? When is a law that makes access to housing a real right and not what happens today where, unfortunately, it is in the hands of market powers? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when a government deals with the heirs of ETA, with the separatists and with the couplists, the general budgets of the state bear, unfailingly, the mark and seal of all of them. [[Applauds]] If they had to hide the government's transfers to the enemies of Spain, where would they do it? Indeed, many of them in the additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions that occupy no less than 60% of the bill, camouflaged in all kinds of consignments. Some of these assignments are seen and others are not, but they have all been negotiated in the shadow of budget support and will see the light very soon. The government's policy for what is not seen or not seen, but which we all know, is to disconnect it from the budgets and to make it appear that it is not an assignment. If a year ago they were imprisoned for budgets, this year they are again imprisoned for budgets. Bildu believes he's going to go unnoticed, but the negotiated thing is to get out of jails to those who still serve sentences and reform Organic Law 7/2014 to reduce the penalties that come from those in French prisons. The Moncloa's excuse is that the reform is mentioned in the annual training plan for 2022. Bildu runs prison policy and we can't consent to it. [[Applauds]] What everyone sees and doesn't appear is the covert amnesty of budget thugs. Sánchez denies what his partners recognize. However, everyone is satisfied: Government, PSOE, Esquerra who says it is a great step forward and even Otegui says it is a positive news. The case: the sentence for sedition and embezzlement of the coup; the means: the elimination of the crime; and the end: support for the general budgets and, in passing, breaking the rule of law by disallowing the courts in a genuine fraud of law. [[Applauds]] Sánchez was passing by but, of course, the Government has accepted the literal dictate of the reform demanded by Esquerra. And it is that this Government, on the one hand, abuses the real decree law, the urgent procedures and again the vetoes to the budgetary amendments - that is, except those of the PSOE - without any legal economic justification, as required by the Constitutional Court. And, on the other hand, it imposes through final provisions the amendment to its wish of up to five laws with no direct relation to the income and expenditure table for the new fiscal year: first, the Government Act; second, the General Subsidies Act; third, the Law on Public Sector Contracts in the Field of Defence and Security - indeed, will this have something to do with the ignominious expulsion of the Civil Guard in the surveillance of defence delegations from 1 January?-; fourth, the Staff Regulations; and fifth, the Public Sector Contracts Act. [[applause]] They are all clearly unconstitutional amendments, as he also notes, one more year, the report of the House's lawyers, indicating that they will be able to contradict the doctrine of the Constitution by infringement of rights, a warning which the Bureau once again despises, while maintaining itself. The PSOE tabled an amendment adding a transitional second bis provision, allowing the municipalities to hide the IBI rises, which are almost 99% of the cases; that is, until 31 July. What a coincidence, they're leaving it for after the May election. In the seventeenth additional provision, the offer of judges and prosecutors shall not exceed two hundred places. They include gender workshops, Minister absent, when the General Council indicates that there are a number of vacancies and that there are 342 members. In Spain there are twelve judges per 100,000 inhabitants, in Europe the average is eighteen, six more judges. This causes a slow and collapsed justice. Is this guaranteed the right to effective judicial protection, Minister, also absent? The only interest you all have in justice - all of you - is your control. And now a classic, so again, in the ninth additional provision is subsidized to political parties. They will have EUR 111.4 million for their operation, for their security and for election expenses. The departure of trade unions appears camouflaged in the Ministry of Labour, carrying no less than 17 million euros, almost twice as much as two years ago. VOX's proposal is to eliminate subsidies to trade unions, employers and parties, as they make them a fundamental way to ensure their livelihood, as would happen with class unions, which would have to close practically. The proposal of all of you is to maintain them, but Spanish taxes must support only what is important: schools, health centres, dependency, justice, security and infrastructure. At a time when prices rise and the penalties for sedition, embezzlement and sexual assault fall, do you know that the Spanish would decide? Why don't you ask them whether or not it will suppress aid to parties, trade unions and employers? Be brave. Article 92 of the Constitution allows this. Let the Spanish decide and let them decide now! [[Applauds]] This week we'll see how Sanchez makes specific crimes tailored to the perpetrators, making a covert amnesty and facilitating the future commission of the crime, which they announced they would do again. And it is done by pacting with the enemies of Spain, so that they support the budgets of ruin; a lamentable display of submission and obedience in the Congress of Deputies. That is why we have no choice but to tell you: resign now, leave and call general elections. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u118	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Caballero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the budget law and what we have seen from the right have been insults - some very serious, Mr Bal, today you have highlighted for your demagogy - and very little analysis. We have heard from the People's Party that they are the budgets of ignominy, of infamy, that they are in the trash of history; of Citizens, that they are anti-democratic, totalitarian, sectarian; and of VOX, well, with VOX we should devote the same effort in responding that they have dedicated to working these budgets, none. [[Applauds]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, if for you the PP is the cowardly right, what are you yourselves, the far right vague, the extreme right that does not work, the extreme right that does not make amendments? For not working, they have neither been able to support the 196 amendments that have been tabled in Castile and León; they have voted only one and in chiripa, the 806 of the People's Party. They don't even serve to defend the land where the PP has given them a Vice President, a little boy. [[Applauds]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will at least have the decency, since you have not worked in these two months of budgets, if you do not charge. But, back to the subject, you have not come to evaluate the content of these budgets, because you know that they are good for the country. Can you tell me what's in these budgets so they can't be supported? Does the revaluation of pensions to 8% so that those older who were the breadwinner of many families in the previous crisis will not again be punished for inflation? Do you think that's wrong, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] Go to the street and explain why you are going to vote against the revaluation of pensions. What is wrong with these additional provisions, which are going to support young entrepreneurs, who are driving vocational training, who are going to increase IPREM by more than EUR 500 compared to their governments, which are going to increase investment in dependency by 600 million this year alone? That is what we are talking about this afternoon, the additional provisions of the general budgets of the State. What's wrong with you guys? Go out on the street and explain why you are going to vote against all these measures that the social majority in this country needs. These budgets bring good news for the Spaniards, so you do not want to talk about them or all the social measures they contain, because they represent a social solution to the difficulties. You only want noise, because your government balance was the sun tax, more than half a million young people who went abroad, tax increases for the majority and tax amnesties for most of your friends. These accounts are quite the opposite, because these budgets do not save banks, save citizens; these budgets do not cut the welfare state, guarantee it; these budgets do not freeze pensions, raise them; these budgets do not feed vulture funds, set up youth rental bonds; these budgets do not like them, because these budgets meet the needs of the people of this country. When the noise and insult are not good enough to cover up this truth, they begin with the same catastrophic discourse that is never fulfilled and they have done so for years. You said that the ERTE workers would end up unemployed; you said that the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage would destroy employment; and the one I like most last year, you said that Pablo Casado was going to become President of the Government and, today, replaces Mr Manglano as a Member, They don't give one, there are things that never change in this House. The People's Party doesn't give a damn. [[Applauds]] Just like your arguments, which are so predictable that they bore the citizenry. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u120	Silence, please, Mrs. Gálvez and Mr. Ledesma.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u121	Don't get nervous. The veto argument: March 23, 2016. Do you remember? They vetoed four thousand amendments, the biggest veto by a government on amendments in some budgets. If this is an anti-democratic roller, Mr. Manglano, with a thousand vetoes, what the PP did in 2017, what is it? Constitutional legality, spontaneous consensus, democracy? Tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack. [[Applauds]] You defend democracy, but to defend democracy, you have to read it and you have to learn it - this is for you too, Mr Bal. Article 134 of the Constitution: 'Any amendment entailing an increase in expenditure or a decrease in income shall require the Government's consent for its processing', as has always been applied, throughout life, all governments. But, this is the law of the People's Party funnel, as you do not like this government here is not worth the Constitution. On the pacts, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, advice I don't have for myself. The PP says that with those who want to break Spain, not water, but in these budgets and in these amendments the People's Party embraces the independenceists. The People's Party supports 20 amendments to Esquerra and 118 amendments to the PecCAT; the People's Party supports 178 amendments from 217 to Junts, the Puigdemont Party, and we none. You support more than half of the amendments of the Puigdemont party. [[Applauds]] This is what the PP does here with Puigdemont! What is this? Breaking Spain? Defend Spain? Advice I don't have for myself. That is what they apply, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And citizens' very liberal and constitutionalists support 100% of Podemos' amendments, 75% of Bildu's amendments, 217 of the 286 to Mrs Nogueras and 97 amendments to Esquerra. But if you have supported much more independence party amendments than we have! Mr. Manglano spoke of friends and enemies. Who are the most friends of the independenceists? Do you, who support them with the amendments, or do we, who do not support any of them? No doubt about it, you guys. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u122	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u123	Don't get nervous, I know your inconsistencies must hurt. [[rumors]] In short, in the face of its inconsistencies, in the face of its noise, in the face of destruction, there is a Spain that advances, there is a Spain that believes in social justice, there is a Spain that does not lose hope; it is Spain of those millions of men and women who are represented in all the good that these budgets have. Therefore, I ask you to leave the noise and join this Spain of the social majority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-21-CD221121.u124	Thank you, Mr. González. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
