ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda, first of all, to exclude item 32, corresponding to the amendments of the Senate relating to the draft law regulating the system of management of the common agricultural policy and other related matters, and, secondly, to include as the last point of the Thursday session the request of the Constitutional Commission for a further six months extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the Subcommittee for the reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime. Also, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency also submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 7, corresponding to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, concerning the energy crisis and the eco-social transition. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October 1979 on the obligation to give reasons and publish decisions on the admission and non-admission of amparo applications. It's organic. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great honour to promote before this House a proposal for a law aimed at amending the Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October of the Constitutional Court concerning the obligation to give reasons and to publish orders for the admission and non-admission of amparo applications. As you all know, amparo is a means of extraordinary challenge to violations of the rights and freedoms provided for in Articles 14 to 29 and 30.2 of our Magna Charter when they arise from provisions, legal acts or simple de facto actions of the public authorities and their agents, also extended to constitutional violations of judicial bodies. Such a possibility has meant that the remedy of amparo has been and continues to be used as a last resort for the litigants on a number of occasions, once the remedies have been exhausted before ordinary judicial bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, the workload that the Constitutional Court has had to shoulder from the knowledge of amparo appeals has gradually increased, which has meant two legislative reforms which have sought to limit access to knowledge on the merits of the appeal. In this regard, Organic Law 6/1988 of 9 June introduced as a ground of non-admission that the application clearly lacks content justifying a decision on the merits of the application by the Constitutional Court, allowing for non-admission by a simple order, instead of the agreement, as it was until such a reform. Well, this way of resolving through providence, according to our general procedural legislation embodied in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, relieves the resolution of the need for its motivation, unlike what happens with the cars. It should also be noted that the Constitutional Court is not strictly any judicial body, but we would do well to bring common procedural guarantees to the task of the supreme constitutional interpreter, as set out in this initiative for which it requested the plenary to take it into consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, the trend of limitation on access to citizens' protection has been confirmed over the years by the promulgation of Organic Law 6/2007 of 24 May of a much more ambitious deadline for the amendments previously adopted. In fact, his explanatory statement already revealed the problem that was being addressed. Moreover, it is clear that the application of the restrictive criterion for the admission of amparo remedies since this last legal amendment has contributed to the purpose stated in the preamble to the rule. Since then, official statistics reveal that, while there has been no substantial reduction in the application for constitutional protection, cases pending before the High Court have declined considerably. This has certainly been the case, given the facilities available to constitutional judges to dismiss cases without having to explain the basis on which their decision is based. However, despite the good qualities that this new system of admission has been able to bring to the day-to-day work of the Constitutional Court, it also has disadvantages arising from the high rate of non-admissions, which in recent years is reflected in figures greater than 97 % of the appeals for amparo lodged with the court, with a worrying fact because such non-admissions do not in many cases allow the applicant for amparo to reasonably know the procedural or substantive grounds on which his appeal has been inadmissible. I am confident that you will agree with me that it does not seem to me to receive that extra-legal and practical issues, such as the workload of the court, give way to such basic principles as the need to motivate its judicial decisions or the effective judicial guardianship itself, which is covered by the first point of article 24 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the very high percentage of non-admissions that the Constitutional Court confirms in its last annual memoirs is a quantitatively alarming fact, to the extent that it makes it possible to doubt the criterion of non-admission is truly the special constitutional relevance, a concept which is also highly indeterminate, unless the special constitutional relevance is in fact the volume of matters that the High Court can assume. This does not mean, at all, that admissions are unfounded, much less, but that legal operators often do not find systematic or sufficiently sound criteria among the criteria specified in the non-admission orders to give due effect to the legal concept of the special constitutional relevance, thus moving away from the arbitrariness prohibited by article 9.3 of the lex legum. In the face of this situation, which knows and suffers daily from thousands of citizens who seek constitutional protection, and their lawyers, unable to understand how a constitutional violation can be perpetrated at the very headquarters of the institution created to defend fundamental rights, what is intended by this proposal of law is to contribute to the dissemination and systematization of the criteria of the Constitutional Court in the procedure of admission of amparo remedies through a feasible and useful system. We refer, in particular, to the publication of the orders for admission and non-admission of remedies in a sense similar to that which has been made in the area of the contentious-administrative jurisdiction on the occasion of the reform carried out by the Organic Law 7/2015 of 21 July, amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July, of the Judiciary, which has introduced the concept of objective cassational interest, although in this case the procedural law itself incorporates a number of presumptions to help discern the content of such a concept. Thus, Article 90(7) of Law 29/1998 of 13 July, which regulates the administrative jurisdiction of the courts, provides that orders for the application of cassation shall be published on the website of the Supreme Court. On a biannual basis, its Dispute-Administrative Chamber shall publish on the above-mentioned website and in the Official Gazette of the State a list of remedies of cassation admitted to proceedings, with a succinct mention of the rule or rules that will be the subject of interpretation and of the programming for its resolution. That should also be the way forward through the admission filters of the constitutional amparo application, as we put it in the proposal before us, whose normative details are available to your colleagues. It would also be appropriate for this procedure of admission or non-admission to require, as is natural, the corresponding, albeit succinct, motivation to make known not only the legal requirement not met, but the reasons and/or arguments for understanding why such a requirement has not been met in the specific case embodied in the amparo application submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, recognizing that these measures will not be able to alleviate the high rate of inadmissibility of amparo remedies, it can at least allow citizens and legal operators to advise them in their access to constitutional jurisdiction to know in more concrete and detailed terms the elements that allow them to discern the existence of this special constitutional relevance that Organic Law 2/1979 demands. This will not only contribute to a better substantiation of amparo remedies in this regard, avoiding violations of truly relevant rights that are unprotected, but will also help to provide better advice in the legal defence of cases that allow, where appropriate, to recommend non-recourse where circumstances do not exist in order to be able to undertake successfully, in accordance with the case study published on the court's own website. In short, what is at stake here is to establish objective and explicit criteria that allow to rule out from plan that in this procedure of admission there may be odious random or arbitrary extralegal elements. This will no doubt also contribute to the prestige of our constitutional justice and to obliterate the perception that is being imposed in legal practice, configuring the achievement of the admission of an amparo remedy as a true quimera. Citizens seeking judicial aid for amparo certainly deserve no further constitutional violation other than the one they complain about, and this happens when an order of the Constitutional Court does not explain the reason why an amparo appeal cannot be decided on the merits by not exceeding the admission procedure on grounds that should be reasoned by the person who has decided to do so. In short, there is no better way to make this last one than to publicize the decisions that have taken place at that stage, so that it can be seen with light and stenographers, without traps or cardboard, why a remedy of amparo cannot merit an answer on the merits, which is what the citizen yearns for and pursues the professional of the law that assists him. I conclude, Madam President, by noting that both in the record of this legislative initiative, which dates back exactly two years, and in the knowledge of the documents and details that have allowed me to defend it before the House, it has had much to do with the commendable rigour and irreducible tenacity of Professor Javier Junceda, a prestigious Asturian jurist whom I would like to make special mention of, with my appreciation for his work and that of his team. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u5	Thank you very much, President. The Forum spokesman presented to us in an extensive manner from the rostrum the reasons for his initiative, which I would like to point out from this moment on that we fully share. However, briefly, I will give some thought to the matter. As you already know, the remedy of amparo for violation of public rights and freedoms protects the rights and freedoms of citizenship recognized between articles 14 to 29, section 1, chapter 2, of the Constitution, and comes to protect against violations of the rights and freedoms arising from provisions, legal acts, omissions or de facto actions of both the public authorities or their officials and agents, as well as from acts and omissions of the judiciary, which are, as the case may be, established for intervention in the remedy of amparo of citizenship, the Public Prosecutor's Office and/or the Ombudsman, provided that a number of requirements are met, and in particular, because it is particularly linked to the initiative, that the matter is justified by its special constitutional significance, that is, for the interpretation of the Constitution, for its application, for its general effectiveness and for the content and scope of the fundamental rights, requirements which the court establishes through what is called the procedure of admission and by a decision of the court in the form of providence, which is precisely the object of the reform of this initiative. The statement of reasons already points out that the current form of the application for amparo does not in many cases allow the appellant to have a reasonable knowledge of the procedural and substantive grounds on which the application has been denied, since precisely the decision of non-admission is the form of an order, which, according to article 50.3 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, requires only the specification of the non-compliance requirement, as previously stated, but not the motivation required for the orders, proposed by us and consistent with the Civil Prosecution Act, which is supplementary to the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, as stated in article 80. Precisely, he said that this reform is consistent with what the Civil Prosecution Act points out because it claims that for the admission or non-admission of claims it requires the form of self, and the self has a characteristic that does not have the providence, and that it has to be sufficiently motivated with respect to its legal foundations that support the judgment. In short, it seeks the initiative we share that the legal reasons for the decision on the particular case under consideration may be known, i.e. why the procedural requirement for admitting or refusing a claim for amparo is not met. With this initiative - I am finalizing - the question is refocused, putting the principle of effective judicial protection back at the centre of gravity, as the proposer of the initiative pointed out, and not so much in facilitating non-admissions through their form as providence, or, which is the same, without requiring sufficient motivation. On the other hand, it is also proposed, and we take part in it, the publication of decisions of non-admission or admission, in a similar sense as is done in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction in relation to appeals for cassation, so that, in the end, legal counsel know what to do with regard to the prosperity of their applications for amparo, which we consider to be good both from the point of view of effective judicial protection and from the point of view of not collapsing the Constitutional Court without foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u7	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Yesterday, as I was preparing this speech, I was thinking of Mr Martínez Oblanca's good initiative on the question of extending the scope of the right to effective judicial protection, and, in relation to the consequences of this bill, I thought that it is a way of bringing the Constitutional Court closer to citizens, a way for citizens to want more to the Constitutional Court and that, in this way, when they are not allowed an application for amparo, they have the reasons, the legal reasons - surely that of weight - for which the Constitutional Court rejects them. Bad day has chosen Mr Martínez Oblanca to bring here the defense of his proposal of law, if that was - and I am sure of it - the purpose of this proposal of law; the day on which the Government announces that Juan Carlos Campo and Laura Díaz will be judges of the Constitutional Court. From the Ministry to the National Court and the Constitutional Court, and from the Moncloa to the Guarantee Council of the Parliament of Catalonia and the Constitutional Court: the perfect rotating doors between politics and the judiciary and the different places you want, as long as you have a card or are akin to a certain political feeling. There have been two amendments to the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court to ensure that the Constitutional Court does not have to give reasons for the admission of amparo. This has been very typical of bipartisanism, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, during these forty years, when justice professionals asked them to invest more money and expand the offer of public employment. They drew up laws that called efficiency and agility, and the lawyers in office we started to tremble, because a law of agility is one that shortens the lawyers' time limits, puts court fees to use the public service of justice, avoids the processing of conclusions in the verbal trial and restricts access to remedies. In other words, the PP and PSOE have always tried to fix justice by preventing access to justice, restricting the right to effective judicial protection, rather than giving more resources, rather than putting more people and more means in place. In the General State Budgets Act we have been barred from extending the offer of public employment so that, instead of 200 judges and prosecutors, there will be 300, and we have been barred from the amendments that we have put forward for a remunerative equality of the lawyers of the administration of justice and a remuneration worthy of the office. That is how justice is taken both by the Socialist Party and by the People's Party. In short, these reforms of 1988 and 2007 cry to heaven. In particular, the 2007 reform states that it is the citizen who has to prove to the Constitutional Court that his case is of particular constitutional relevance. I mean, this is like the Constitutional Court saying, for example, in Yolanda Díaz's words: 'Look, I only work the amparo remedies when they are most chulian; otherwise, don't you come and give me the roll, because I don't work'. Or it's like I'm saying, 'Tell me why I have to work!'. It is as if the Constitutional Court, when we all pay the salaries of the judges - it is true that they have few means, but it is not because of the citizens, but because of the government of Spain for the last forty years -, said to the citizen: 'And why do I have to read to me their role?' - 'Man, because I pay my taxes, because I am a citizen, because I believe that I have been violated by a fundamental right, a public freedom, because for that you are the Constitutional Court.' Worst of all, the Constitutional Court is also the police, which controls the motivation of the rest of the courts. For everyone to understand, the famous saying of blindfolded advice, which I don't have, would come to the case. I mean, I tell the judiciary that it has not motivated enough and that it motivates the poor citizen to tell him why it has not given him the reason, but I do a little what I want, it will not be that I have to put it to work, with the means I have. Rubio Llorente, who is also a bit like the one who leaves and distributes and always takes the best part, said that article 122.3 of the Constitution determines that the motivation refers only to sentences. But - look how curious - it turns out that Rubio Llorente says that, according to article 122.3, the motivation applies only to judgments. And then the rulings of the Constitutional Court say that the motivation, the right to obtain a decision based on law, favorable or adverse, is a guarantee against the arbitrariness or unreasonableness of the public authorities. Well, then, apply the story, Constitutional Court. If it turns out that we are fighting defencelessness, if it turns out that we are fighting arbitrariness and unreasonability, you are motivating your inadmissibility of amparo remedies. These are your own words, gentlemen of the Constitutional Court. The lack of motivation about a decision of the democratic public power is pure and harsh authoritarianism, it is arbitrariness, simply to say that I say this and that I am the one who commands, yes because yes, for no reason whatsoever. And then the Constitutional Court, very correctly in my opinion, says that the motivation can be succinct or by reference. Of course, but citizens have to have the right to know why they give us reason or why they take it away from us. We do not need to agree with the ruling. My group has always defended the judgments of all the courts, even if they do not agree with us. But we need, we have the right to know what these reasons are. Article 10 of our Constitution states that fundamental rights and public freedoms are informed by international treaties or conventions to which Spain is a party. And we have the Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights and the case, for example, De la Fuente Ariza v. Spain, in which Spain is condemned precisely for the lack of motivation in a non-admission of the amparo application. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do not look at where this proposal comes from; vote yes, no more. It's a good thing, there's no reason to vote against it. Then, if you want, like the law of the ELA, you leave it in a drawer, which you don't care. We want a better Constitutional Court, we want people to want their Constitutional Court, we want people not to talk about a progressive or conservative Constitutional Court. And I know that in this, on this goal, perhaps you can tell me that I am an illusory, that in the times that run I am seeing dreams; it may be true, but I will not stop working for it, because the road is moving. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u9	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this bill is a very neutral political initiative. I will now go into detail, but I think this is important to point out, because when you talk about the Constitutional Court this is not simple. In our view, it has a high content, a high degree of fundamental rights. The truth is that, when it is proposed that the Constitutional Court should have to justify the non-admission of the amparo appeals that come and appeal that this motivation be with a legal argument, with respect for fundamental rights, which are precisely the rights that should be protected, I sincerely believe that it is a necessity or a reality to which we must approach with good eyes. The application for amparo and the Constitutional Court have already been discussed here and almost everyone knows it, the application for amparo as the last tool to protect fundamental rights in that function of the Constitutional Court to interpret the Constitution, and here one could enter into the matter of reality and theory. The reality would certainly allow us to have these bitter debates on the Constitutional Court and the latest roles it has played in our times, such as highly controversial pronouncements, issues relating to the renewal of the Constitutional Court or issues relating to the politicization of the Constitutional Court. But if you look at it from the perspective of the legislator, the perspective of the work that we have to do, it's about laying the theory, laying the foundations for things to work better. And a proposal that the Constitutional Court has an obligation to give reasons for its decisions undoubtedly contributes to fundamental rights, contributes to transparency and to an approach to know on what grounds, on what basis the Constitutional Court operates. Undoubtedly, there are some issues that point to the motivation of the proposal, such as those relating to a reality that we all know: the workload as justification for the non-admission of remedies, more than 90% of non-admissions in these cases, or such indeterminate legal concepts as the special constitutional relevance or sometimes the manifest absence of a violation of fundamental rights. For you to see, because many times speakers with photographs or newspaper covers come up to the rostrum, I have not been able to resist the temptation to show them an admission of the Constitutional Court: a sheet of almost four or five lines with a quarter of a single text. [[Show a document]] It is on this sheet that the Constitutional Court allows itself to reject an appeal that takes years of judicial proceedings, many appeals and the efforts of lawyers and professionals to defend the rights of their representatives. Undoubtedly, beyond this specific example, this is something that is repeated in more than 90% of cases, as mentioned above. Therefore, in addition to analyzing the statistics, it is also good to analyze what against pronouncements we have in relation to this. Know that the Court of Justice of the European Union has already accumulated 134 sentences for Spain since it joined the Court of Justice of the European Union: 63 for cases of lack of guarantees in the proceedings, 16 for the right to proceedings without delay, 18 for the right to privacy, 14 for the right to an effective investigation, 10 for the protection of freedom of expression... In fact, in 2021, of the ten, most are due to the lack of a fair trial and the violation of freedom of expression. It is therefore curious that more than 90% of the amparo resources are reused and, on the other hand, in the international pronouncements on fundamental rights Spain does not end up coming to a very good end in this area. In fact, Spain ranks eighteen of the member States of the Council of Europe that violate fundamental rights. That is why we are looking forward to the initiative, we are going to ensure that it has sufficient support to be able to deal with it, and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u11	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I'll try to be very brief. We are meeting this afternoon with an initiative by Mr Martínez Oblanca, which seems to us to be well-intentioned but not operational. In 2007, a reform had already been approved to discharge the Constitutional Court from the backlog of work and to enable it to more easily dispose of the resources it believed should not be admitted. For our parliamentary group, the rationale for the resolutions is a guarantee of the protection of the right to effective judicial protection in order to avoid defence, too, but the Constitutional Court currently has two ways of operating when it decides not to allow an application for amparo. The first is by providence, in 98% of cases, where it is simply and very generically stated that the remedy does not meet the requirements for admission to the proceedings. The second way in which the Constitutional Court operates is through interlocutory, in only 2% of cases, when it considers that the non-admission has an entity sufficient to offer a more developed reasoning. As you can see, there is a very significant disproportion. In this initiative, it is proposed that the Constitutional Court review on a case-by-case basis and in two lines state that the appeal does not comply with any of the constitutional cases described in the Constitutional Court's Judgment 155/2009. I wish this would happen, but let's be realistic. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, do you expect all sections to review on a case-by-case basis with the workload they have? I tell you that I wish this would happen, because, as Mr Edmundo Bal has rightly said, we have a right to know and to know. In other words, these types of mechanisms of rejection of everything that is not of interest to the court are not exclusive to the Spanish Constitutional Court, because they are not designed anywhere as a way for the court in question to make a mini-judgment on why a particular case is not of interest. If the proposer group of the initiative wants this minisentence to be made where all the reasonings are set out, we believe that the reform should be more profound and not only call for a cosmetic reform of article 50 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, because, if it does not go further, it will serve nothing. For example, we could lead the debate to legitimize the interested parties to appeal the non-admissions, because today only the Prosecutor's Office can appeal them, which has no justification beyond taking the burden off the Constitutional Court. This experience shows us two things. The first is that most of the time the Ministry of Public Prosecutions resorts to default non-admission orders - it is estimated that this happens in more than 80% of cases -; instead, the interested parties cannot. The second is that in resolutions that have a somewhat deeper motivation, that motivation is automatic or practically automatic. I'm not getting any longer. As I have already said, we believe that the debate should be deeper and our vote will be no more on the initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u13	Dear President, dear fellow Members, Congressman Martínez Oblanca raises the need to reform the constitutional amparo. It is an institution that does not exist in most countries of the world, it is quite exceptional; it is not even in those few countries of the world where the Constitutional Court exists, which are only twenty-seven. The Constitutional Court normally deals with institutional problems, complaints from institutions and not from individuals, who generally have only recourse to ordinary justice and whose remedies are often exhausted in the Supreme Court. Our case is different. When democracy was theorized, three powers were raised and this court was not raised, which later arose because of practical needs. It arose, as you all know, in the American Supreme Court, when the famous Marbury versus Madison case was raised. The prestigious Judge Marshall saw the need to create a special jurisdiction or, at least, a constitutional check. Subsequently, the famous Austrian jurist Hans Kelsen theorized the need for a concentrated and specialized jurisdiction in the control of constitutionality so that there would be a guarantee that the ordinary Parliament could not disregard what the constituent Parliament decided with a higher or strengthened majority. This is the situation. In the specific case of Spain, individuals have the possibility of access to constitutional justice, something that does not happen in other countries, and also to another exceptional way, which is that of the European Court of Human Rights. They are two added resources, two resources that should be exceptional but that legal practice has turned into normal resources, into two more resources to be used by the individual. A complex situation occurred in 2007, when a number of reforms were introduced. Mr Martínez Oblanca today proposes to reverse the situation and return to before the 2007 reform. First of all, we must thank him for his initiative, because, unfortunately, the right-wings in this country do not normally bring forward proposals; his initiatives are always to wear down the Government, to wear down the institutions or to wear down the external image of Spain. However, in this case, a Member of the right has raised something that is not negative, that is not eager to wear or block. It is not unreasonable what he poses, what happens is that what could be good in a perfect world can be counterproductive in the imperfect world in which we live. And what's going on? That in 2007 it was seen that the Constitutional Court could no longer, that it was overflowing, and somehow exempted it from doing some urgent things so that they did not prevent it from focusing on important things, because when one has to do many urgent things it does not attend sufficiently to the important thing. Thus, he was removed from this obligation to motivate all admissions and non-admissions. This had a logic then for the needs of the institution itself. What's the situation today? The situation today is even worse. Today, your ladies and gentlemen will have breakfast with this article from the Madrid press that says that there are a whole series of serious and very important judicial decisions of the Constitutional Court that have been paralysed since June as a result of the blockade on the renewal of constitutional bodies. Therefore, something that could be good and could imply a deepening of rights, such as the obligation that the Constitutional Court should give sufficient reasons for decisions on admission and non-admission of constitutional amparo applications, can in practice be counterproductive, because we have a totally blocked Constitutional Court. Assigning new obligations to a court which in itself cannot afford its own under the conditions under which it finds itself and without providing for any increase in the remedies available to that court may lead, by analysis, to paralysis. We can lead the court to an even worse situation than we currently have. That is why, although we do not disagree with the aim of the proposal - which, as the comrade Telechea of the Republican Group has rightly pointed out, has a good intention that we could share - we believe that it should be raised in this way at a time when the Constitutional Court has been blocked because it has not been renewed and, moreover, without the necessary means it could be counterproductive and, therefore, we will not support it. What is absolutely essential at the moment is the release of the constitutional bodies. In this sense, from my group, with all modesty, humility and affection, we wanted to put before the governing bodies of the House that we believe that the situation we are coming to is an unsustainable situation. As many experts have said, renovating constitutional bodies in time and form is an obligation of the General Courts, the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. It is not an obligation of political parties; nor can we delegate it to the plumbers of political parties, nor can we allow the plumbers of a political party to prevent us from exercising our obligation to renew constitutional bodies in time and form and to enforce laws. In the face of this, again, I humbly ask the Bureau of the House...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u14	Mr. Uriarte, I have to call you to the point. Please focus on the content of the legislative initiative under discussion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u15	The legislative initiative, Madam President, I tell you with all my affection...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u16	Do not enter into debate with the Presidency. Mr Uriarte, please, I ask you to continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u17	I continue with my intervention and reiterate my claim that, in order to unlock the Constitutional Court, so that it can properly meet its obligations and so that in the future an extension of powers such as that which Mr Martínez Oblanca is proposing, it is essential that we be allowed to renew the constitutional bodies in time and form in compliance with the law. [[Applauds]] I think it's a fundamental element. We cannot assign greater responsibilities to the Constitutional Court, we cannot drown it any more and we cannot demand it any more without providing it with resources and keeping it in a situation of blockade. These Chambers must fulfil their constitutional obligation to renew constitutional bodies in time and form and to allow the Constitutional Court to act properly, not only in the control of the constitutionality of laws, not only in conflicts of jurisdiction, but also in the constitutional amparo appeal, which is a positive remedy, as is the appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, because through this constitutional jurisdiction of freedom a jurisprudence has been introduced that is scrupulously careful with fundamental rights and the jurisprudence of the Strasbourg Court has been brought to the state seat. We therefore believe that this is a very positive thing and it would be good if their powers were expanded. Thank you very much, Madam President. I ask you to convey to Mr Suárez Illana all our good wishes from here on out. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. That's how I'll do it. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u19	With all due respect, Your Honor. This bill presented by the Joint Group, the Foro Asturias party, reforming article 50 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court addresses an important issue, as has already been highlighted here. And it is addressed by a member of a regionalist party - I am referring to him, not to his formation, that at the moment there are avatars that we cannot share in VOX - Mr Martínez Oblanca, that the formula and the signature and that always, from a regionalist option, he has shown in this House his rejection of centrifugal excesses, his wisdom, his measure, his sanity and his patriotism; and I can say the same about the deputies of the Union of the Navarro People. [[Applauds]] This means that regionalism is possible in Spain without falling into independence options or in options contrary to the constitutional order in general. It can therefore be said that there are parties that respond faithfully to article 6 of the Constitution, not like the other parties that challenge any intellectual category and the well-known classifications of Max Weber or Michels: parties of notables, mass parties, patronizing parties, ideological parties, clientele parties, parties of social or economic interest and doctrinal parties that defend political and moral ideas. We already know that in Spain, perhaps because of our claim of originality - I don't know - or because of an excess of chastity, we could distinguish between the pedigree parties, those who ask incontinently, who ask for many things, among them, money and that appeases them in their centrifugal rage - read PNV, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and other separatist parties -; the parties that we could call criminals, not because they act as such, but because they support constituent acts of crime... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u20	Mr Sánchez, I think it is not appropriate in the House to talk about criminal parties when you are referring to political parties that are legally running for election. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u21	Well, parties that have supported and support the commission of crimes in the recent past and in the not so recent past and that we trust that they will not do so in the present or in the future, although we are very afraid that they can return to the steps. [[applause]] Then there are the inane parties, that is, the useless, the empty, those who do nothing in emergency situations. We also know what they are; I will not say so as not to offend anyone, but they will feel identified. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] And then, according to Michels, there would be the doctrinal or ideological parties, among which VOX and Mr Martínez Oblanca would certainly be among them. This proposal is important because, in fact, it does remedy, albeit not sufficiently, the problem of non-admission of amparo resources. The problem of non-admission of amparo remedies is such that, as stated in the explanatory statement, 97% of the amparo remedies in 2020, the year in which that text was submitted, were not allowed to proceed through an unreasoned measure. This is what is intended to remedy this proposal of law, as it requests that the non-admission be by a resolution motivated by the form of self. But this is not enough, because what VOX proposed almost at the same time as this proposed law, by means of a non-law proposal, was that the ordinary remedy of amparo is regulated, which is the main remedy of amparo established by article 53.2 of the Constitution and that for forty-four years - it is said soon!- People's Party, Socialist Party and all the forces represented in this House have decided not to regulate. So, all there is is a constitutional amparo remedy with this rate of non-admission that makes it practically meaningless for any justiciable and for the professionals of the forum. It is a resource conceived as a subsidiary in the same article 53.2, an omission that has no explanation, but which shows that to this terrible bipartisanism that has devastated Spain - with the collaboration of many present: PNV, Catalan nationalists when they were not net independenceists, etc. - it does not like the protection of fundamental rights. Moreover, it does not matter absolutely anything or very little, as we are seeing. Finally, as has been said here, I will repeat that today is a bad day - Mr Martínez Oblanca, I am sorry; or a good day, what I know! - for us to discuss this issue, because today is a sad day. If a year ago, in November 2021, on the day that PP and PSOE agreed to the renewal of the Constitutional Court by electing four judges, I said that it was a sad, very sad day, today I must say that I am exhausted to say how sad it is this day, because the Government has decided - as was otherwise foreseeable - to appoint two judges of the court with a net party profile: a former government minister and a former director general of the Ministry of the Presidency. Net partisanship in the profiles of these appointees which once again demonstrates what we already know, that is, that the Government does not believe in the Constitution at all, that the Government is willing to violate it under any circumstances and by any means and that, in order for all its constitutional violations to be blessed, it has proposed to the Constitutional Court these two names so that, where appropriate, when they have to prosecute unconstitutionality remedies, the Constitutional Court does not declare the initiatives appealed as unconstitutional and, therefore, the Spanish law continues to be fed by unconstitutional rules. It is further evidence of the bipartisan vices of the party, in this case, that destroy the political regime of 1978...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u22	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u23	...and, of course, that they debilitate all those who star in them by action or omission. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if all the democratic systems of the world are characterized by something, it is because they are in turn the rule of law, and it is either a democracy or a rule of law or not a democracy. That means that in democracy we are all subject to the rule of law and that, therefore, the public authorities must be the first to respect the law and the rights and freedoms of citizens established by our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, outside the law there is neither justice nor rules, and without justice nor rules there is neither freedom nor peace nor coexistence. Therefore, trying to impose political objectives and ideas above the law is as illegitimate as anti-democratic behavior, and that goes also for those who stand behind that imaginary will of the people to threaten that they will do it again. [[Applauds]] Laws are passed in these courts and then enforced by the courts. That is why we do not think it is acceptable to try to blame judges for the mistakes made in the drafting of the rules, as has happened with the so-called law of the law alone, which has led to a setback in the protection of women. If there was any doubt, it has just been cleared this morning by the Supreme Court with the judgment we have just heard. And then you boast of being a feminist government! [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, facets, not verbal; facts, not just words. In addition to the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, in a State of law there is another basic principle, a protective principle enshrined in article 24 of our Constitution, which is that we all have the right to effective judicial protection; that is, the right to defend our legitimate interests and our fundamental rights and freedoms, first before ordinary jurisdiction and, once exhausted, exceptionally in protection before the Constitutional Court. The application for amparo, following the reforms carried out in 1988 and 2007, requires the applicant to comply with two requirements. First, to make clear the facts on which they are based, the constitutional precepts violated the rights and freedoms sought to be reinstated in amparo; and, secondly, to demonstrate the special constitutional significance that justifies such a remedy, and then to the court to assess whether such a requirement was met not in the act of admission to procedure. And that is where the problem lies, ladies and gentlemen, where the vast majority of amparo applications are not allowed to go precisely because they do not sufficiently justify the existence of this special constitutional significance, a consequence which the People's Group has already warned in its day and for which it voted against the last reform. Statistics leave no doubt about it. It has already been said that a very high percentage of resources are not admitted precisely because of this cause. Well, what does Forum propose to us in this initiative? In the event of non-admission to amparo, the decision shall have at least a minimum of reasons and, therefore, shall not be communicated by order, but by order so that the applicant knows at least the legal reasons for that decision. It is an objective that we share and that will undoubtedly require a greater effort on the part of the court and perhaps the need to provide more resources, but which will also help to dispel any doubt of discretion and, above all, to satisfy the legitimate aspirations of any applicant to understand the causes and foundations of non-admission. This will also lead to greater legal certainty, in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of respect for the principle of good administration of justice protected by the Convention. That is why we believe that it is appropriate not only to give reasons, but also to publish all decisions, both of admission and of non-admission, of amparo appeals, in a manner similar to what the Supreme Court does in appeals of cassation in the administrative and contentious jurisdiction. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of seeking and finding a balance between the excessive use of amparo before the Constitutional Court as a sort of ordinary last instance without conditions, as was the case in the past and which could lead us again to collapse in the functioning of the court, and the current system, which has made the procedure for the admission of the appeal an almost insurmountable obstacle for citizens with the consequent loss of guarantees of the protection of fundamental rights. And in order to find that balance, this initiative can be a good starting point for improving the access to amparo procedure before the Constitutional Court. In addition, it is a court that is now being assaulted by the Government with the appointment of the Council of Ministers as judges of two former senior officials of the Government of Sánchez, a former Director General and a former Minister of Justice; two party profiles with the clear aim of trying to control the majority of that institution indiscriminately. [[applause]] That is very serious and also very sad, because with it all you will achieve is to call into question the neutrality of the court itself and weaken our rule of law. If something is being demonstrated these days, it is that this Government does not believe in the depoliticization of justice and, moreover, that it is capable not only of trying to control justice, but also of using it as a currency of exchange to remain in power. Neither the Spanish nor the Constitutional Court nor the institution of amparo deserve this. The amparo - and with that ended - generated one of the most important debates among the constituents of 1978; just review the sessions papers of that time. Finally, it was agreed by consensus to set up a Constitutional Court not only to contrast the laws adopted in the General Courts with the Magna Charter, but also to ensure that it was the seat to guarantee directly and to each Spanish citizen respect for their constitutional rights. And that decision, ladies and gentlemen, that plus guarantee in the exercise of our rights, is one more of the many greatnesss contained in our Constitution, which is about to commemorate forty-four years of validity, a Constitution that was the result of integration, reconciliation and harmony and a Constitution that reflects one of the most advanced systems of rights and freedoms in the world and that remains a great space for solutions and the best meeting point among Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr Cuatrecasas Asua.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u27	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law that is brought to the plenary today is inappropriate and surprising for its relevant weakness in substance and form. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Oblanca, from the point of view of respect, seeking to adapt what we are discussing today to the reality of the Constitutional Court - Mr Bal mentioned the term dream and I repeat - is a pure dream. It seems that this proposal aims to omit the fact that, according to the memory of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2021, a large number of non-admissions of amparo actions related to the lack of constitutional significance remain in force, either because of their insufficient justification, 35.70%, or because of the lack of such significance, 25.77%. The reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court was largely aimed at correcting the overflow of this body, one of whose main functions is to act as a supreme interpreter of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. Such an outpouring resulted in large delays in the resolutions as a result of the enormous amount of amparo resources that had been put in place. In this direction, the special constitutional significance was introduced as a requirement for the admission of the appeal, reflected with magnificent criteria in article fifty (1) (b), which states: 'That the content of the appeal justify a decision on the merits by the Constitutional Court on the basis of its special constitutional significance, which shall be assessed on the basis of its importance for the interpretation of the Constitution, for its application or for its general effectiveness, and for the determination of the content and scope of fundamental rights'. Of course, in full consonance with an exercise of coherence on the basis of the nature of constitutional jurisdiction outside the judiciary for implying a fundamental change in the conception of the protection of a clearly subjective concept, protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, to a much more objective consideration, definition and interpretation of the content of constitutional law from a constitutional control point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court is neither, nor can it be, a third or a fourth instance of amparo proceedings. In short, the good archer is judged not by his arrows, but by his aim. It is not a simple question of aim, but a question of suitability and adequacy. The relevance of its function requires without contemplation that it can concentrate on the resolution of those situations in which constitutional relevance is recognized. It is therefore necessary that, in all other cases, it may and should not allow for the processing of applications for amparo which do not present such an indication of relevance, and to do so in an expeditious manner by order and in accordance with the terms provided for in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court in force. An example of this is a cassation appeal filed in 2015 against judgements handed down on appeal by the provincial hearings and the Criminal Chamber of the National Court, which at the time was a novelty. The legislator was well aware of the foreseeable impact this variety of cassation could have on the workload in the Criminal Chamber, and the preamble to Law 41/2015 of 5 October indicated that the reform includes various measures that will act as counterweights to balance the model and make it fully viable. Among these measures was the possibility that the appeal could be allowed to proceed by order succinctly motivated by unanimity of the members of the Chamber when it lacks a cassational interest, thus enabling the Criminal Chamber to resolve in a more agile and effective manner a large number of cassational remedies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of helping to lighten the work, not to burden it more than it already is, or perhaps to some extent to bring it closer to the American certiorari, while continuing to lay the effective foundations of the European system of constitutional justice because the amparo is, in the light of experience, essential for our social and democratic rule of law. It is our task to subject it to due protection without imprecise contemplations or patches which do not contribute to the speeding up of the work to be carried out because, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about guardianship, yes, which is already deployed by the work of ordinary jurisdiction, but also of what is so important or more, of the correct and supreme interpretation of that part of our Constitution which is fundamental rights. In the opinion of this Socialist Parliamentary Group, neither the issues of unconstitutionality nor the protection of our constitutional building as a social and democratic rule of law to create a break with the European model of constitutional justice, but rather to strengthen and enlarge it. The rooting, ever stronger, of this pattern is fertilizer and vitamin to consolidate us as what we are and intend to remain: a true firm and strong rule of law. The historical role of the Constitutional Court has undoubtedly been of relevance to both the normative and cultural sectors linked to the Constitution, thus delineating the functional division of power in a solvent way and contributing greatly to the two areas that shape our State: fundamental rights and territorial autonomy. In this direction, the consolidation and effective protection of fundamental rights have been achieved to some extent by the intervention of the Constitutional Court, not only in the exercise of control of laws, but also by the remedy of amparo, which is essential in the future of our rule of law. I finish already, President, recalling a few words from the esteemed lawyer and extreme professor, vice president of the Constitutional Court and president of the Council of State between 2004 and 2012, Francisco Rubio Llorente: In Europe, constitutional jurisdiction is an institution destined to stay and extend. Their enemies today do not advocate both their abolition and their reform and the effort to limit the power of judges is, above all, in the field of interpretation theory rather than in the theory of the Constitution or democracy. In short, ladies and gentlemen, for all the above, our view is unfavourable and we will vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Quatrecasas. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which is an organization against illegal employment and for the protection of the safety and security of persons and things in the communities of owners. [[File number 122/00248]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u29	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Organic Against Illegal Occupation and for Neighborhood Co-existence and Protection of the Security of Persons and Things in Ownership Communities. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Adolfo Suárez, for your work, for your commitment and for being a great person. Thank you for everything. [[Prolonged applause.- Mr. Suárez Illana makes gestures of gratitude by taking his hand to the heart]] We live in times in Spain when politics is imbued with feelings, simplicity and morbidity, and I believe that it is time to reverse emotions, to re-embolden it, to return to the essentials and to put aside that gruesome and rude populism that tries to disorient us and that leads us to the foci that we do not have to pose. Today we are going to raise an issue that is essential, a key issue and a critical issue, such as the right to private property and the illegitimate occupation of housing in this country; those problems that really affect the elderly, the civil servants and any professional who wants to have full respect and full fitness for their effort, capacity and merit. The values, fundamentals, rights and freedoms inherent in dynamic societies and liberal societies are now in question: freedom, equality and the right to property. Freedom, among other things, is now consumed by this communist dirigism which obviously equals everything from below, that equality which has become egalitarianism, that concentrated plan in which poverty does not disappear, but rather that wealth disappears, and, finally, the right to property, that fundamental value of liberal societies for two hundred and fifty years, which they proposed was simply to enjoy and enjoy what they had earned, private property, when the most radical left is systematically proposing to enjoy the property of others, the right of private property replaced by the right and enjoyment of the property of others. [[points out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] Really with that confusion and symbiosis between the programmatic left and the pragmatic left of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, I have even anthropological curiosity. [[points out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] [[points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] I'll start with Unit We can, see if United We can explain it to me, because maybe one at a time they don't explain it to me. [[The lady]] You, who have implicitly or explicitly tolerated the right of okupation as a natural right, can you tell me who to okupar to? Should we also collect men, women, rich, poor, first homes and second homes here? Can you explain to me who's going to be okupar? According to information from the Banco de España, 27% of Spaniards have a second home and, of that 27%, 23.1% are people who hold the lowest percentage of personal income tax and 37% are retired. Is that wealth? Isn't that wealth? Who are the rich in this country? How rich can you deprive yourself of the property? Do you tolerate and consent to the right to illegitimate okupation, yes or no? Do they do so within a government with pragmatic socialists, with volatile socialists and with socialists of variable cloudiness, who are able to vote for one and the other according to convenience? We'll see about that. You have a pathological relationship between wealth, heritage and ideology, but I will invoke your classics. I remember Gaspar Callings that day when he said: what problem is there and what contradiction is there between ideology and my heritage? Of course, people like Castro, Maduro or Chavez would not make that phrase. I remember when Chavez said that of: I hate the rich, the rich are inhuman, and I condemn the rich. And he'd come back to his house, which was full of money because the whole family had money. Carmena also said: what relationship must there be directly between the heritage of the left-wing people and ideology? Can you explain to me, gentlemen of the left, above all those who have earned so much heritage, how it is possible to continue preaching the equitable sharing of wealth while you are accumulating it with impunity? [[Applauds]] Let's talk about the two grapes, housing and truth, because the left is systematically obstinate in denying reality, in making contradictions its breeding stock and in promoting the culture of cancellation. Minister Irene Montero proclaimed to the four winds a few weeks ago that the problem of otupation in Spain was non-existent, that it was an invention of the right and that, moreover, if to the right he paid attention, he would win to the right. Raudo went out in his defense Mr Mayoral, who is not here today, to say that Mrs Montero was right, that ocupation in Spain is an invented problem. The problem of lying is that you not only have to lie to others, but you have to learn to lie to yourself, and you there suffer the delusion of mythomania, because to lie there is an additional problem: it is not that you have to lie once, but you have to lie compulsively and, by compulsively lying, you believe your own lie. Accumulated data from the Ministry of the Interior: Today in Spain there are about 100,000 illegally occupied dwellings. Hundred thousand homes! The problem invented by Minister Montero, one hundred thousand homes, older people, elderly people, young people, civil servants and all over the world. Hundred thousand octopus dwellings in Spain! [[Applauds]] The invented problem of the post-truth of Irene Montero. 40% more in the last five years. In the past eighteen months, there have been 9696 complaints of illegal occupation, of which 3646 are complaints of illegal occupation of dwellings, of first dwellings. This is also an invention. These are data from the Ministry of the Interior. But to you, who live in the metaverse of reality, those who deny absolutely everything, I tell you that every hour in Spain there is a shelter. [[Applauds]] I repeat, every hour in Spain there is a dwelling. I'm not saying it, I'm saying it's the Ministry of the Interior. What do you propose? From the most radical left, of course accompanied by the most possible left, come to say that there is a kind of natural right to otupation and a kind of primitive redistribution of wealth, a concept of primitive communism. [[points out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] [[points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] There is no need for intermediation of the public authorities because one person can freely occupy another person's home. That's the effect and the Colau doctrine and that's what it's leading us to. We believe in social policies, and of course the most vulnerable people have the right to obtain aid and to seek the provision of services and goods so that they can live properly, but not through direct intervention or through illegitimate okupation. That is why we are going to propose several measures in this bill. I'm going to sum it up in a decalogue and they're going to say yes or no to the ten measures. The first, any illegal okupa will have no protection of domicile or residence in the face of the possible action of an authority or agent of the authority. Yes or no? Any illegal okupa shall be evicted within 24 hours. Yes or no? Any illegal occupant who has committed a flagrant offence of occupation shall be immediately removed from the dwelling. Yes or no? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] Yeah. We're on. Any person who has contributed to the organization of a criminal network instigating or 'facilitating the illegal occlusion of dwellings shall be subject to a criminal penalty as provided for in article 250 of the Criminal Code. Yes or no? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] Any person who has a legitimate title to property and has seen the unlawful occupation of his or her home shall have the right to summary guardianship of those provided for in the Civil Prosecution Act. Yes or no? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] Any person who has illegally occupied a dwelling shall not be entitled to the municipal standard and shall not be entitled to the rights associated with its registration. Yes or no? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] Any person who has so far been registered and who appears to have no legitimate title to justify his or her possession must be discharged on his or her own initiative or at the request of a party in order not to enjoy any prerogative or right. Yes or no? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] Let's go back to taxes now. Any person who has been deprived of his or her possession shall be entitled to the return of the IBI and the property tax for the part of the time corresponding to the unlawful cancellation of his or her home. Yes or no? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] We're on. Any person who has been deprived of his or her property shall have the right to enjoy the tax benefits derived from income tax or corporate tax during the period of deprivation. Yes or no? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] Yeah. And the last to finish the decalogue. The president of a community of owners shall have the right to request the immediate release of any person who does not have a legitimate title to shelter that home, provided that he or she believes that unlawful, unhealthy, annoying or harmful activities have occurred. The launch would have to be immediate. Yes or no? [[Some Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] Yeah. [[Applauds]] They are ten measures of pure common sense, representing the essence of the right to property and the basis of societies for two hundred and fifty years. Now is the time for you to decide; now is the time for us to see if the Spanish Socialist Workers Party is going to rise up as Fuenteovejuna, as it did the other day in an exercise of sheep gregarism and say all of a sudden: I too am going to defend whom? Women, men, the elderly, young people, civil servants, workers, entrepreneurs and those who take care of their homes. Are you guys going to vote standing up? Are they all getting up or are they just getting up for the sedition crime? Aren't they going to make a group commitment there? Don't you all go there together? Because the only thing I ask of the United We can explain to us their class inconsistency, as they are willing to justify the existence of the otupation, as they tolerate it, as they justify it and as some have even participated in processes of illegal occupation, and at least give us an explanation of what is happening. The corporal. The left has a problem with reality, responsibility and guilt. I'm going to give you three examples of reversal of guilt and responsibility. One, when a man kills a woman, the killer is the man who kills that woman, neither the men nor the People's Party government, when we rule and also have equality policies. Two, when seditious in Catalonia, the responsibility lies with the Government of Catalonia which rose, not with the Government of Mariano Rajoy. This is the worst moral investment you make, gentlemen of the left. [[Applauds]] Three, and it ended, when a house is illegally occupied, the fault of the okupation is the okupa, which is responsible, and not the capitalist society, as you mean. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u31	Position-fixing turn. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. In 1996 the Prince of Asturias Prize of Concord was awarded to former President Adolfo Suárez González. On your farewell to Congress, thank you, Adolfo Suárez Illana, for your talent, your sense of state and your affection and loyalty for Spain. Today more than ever: from caste it comes to the galgo. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I support the catalogue of measures of pure common sense that Mr Garcés Sanagustín has explained against illegal octopus and for neighbourhood coexistence and the protection of the security of people and things in the communities of owners. As has been said, this is a matter of growing concern to society, as has already been denounced in this House in numerous parliamentary initiatives throughout the XIV Legislature, presented by different parliamentary groups both in plenary and in the Commission. Something similar has also been done in the Senate, because this is a matter on which the Government has probably profiled itself to avoid another of its conspicuous conflicts of coalition between the two parties that make up it, uniquely in the area of housing. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the insistence of the opposition, the systematic refusal of the majority of Congress has not allowed progress to be made in measures such as those embodied in this indispensable bill that goes in defense of private property and promotes the persecution and punishment of the Okupas. In any case, I repeat the arguments that I have pointed out over and over again in this rostrum when talking about the Okupas. It should be recalled that, on the occasion of the debate on the consideration of another proposal for a law of the People's Group, also with the opt-out, held in mid-February 2021, I stressed that the housing policy in Spain needs legal certainty in order to meet the legitimate rights of the owners and the tenants. Since then, we have clearly gone to worse, as the Government fails to understand a matter that is moving alarmingly forward. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need for legal measures to strengthen society, because they proliferate the crimes of illegal housing otupation, as well as the mafia, which put in check the owners of a property and the neighboring communities, who are victims of these crimes that seriously alter coexistence. Our legislative framework goes very far behind the solution to the loopholes that allow the Okupas to act wide, which also ingenuate new formulas, such as inqui option. Our state security forces and forces also need clarity in the regulations, and judges also need procedural measures to improve protection to help effectively combat this scourge. I will therefore vote in favour of taking this good bill into consideration. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u33	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, on 24 October last Parliament in Cantabria adopted an initiative by the PRC in a non-legislative proposal on the phenomenon of illegal octopus, which summarises: First, Parliament in Cantabria expresses its concern about the phenomenon of illegal octopus and the situation of the owners, and especially of the communities of neighbours, affected by this problem in our region, urging the Government in Cantabria to seek immediate solutions to the problem. Secondly, the Cantabria Parliament urges the General Courts to: (a) amend the Criminal Code by tightening penalties, especially in the case of mafia, and to recover the crime of usurpation of immovable property in order to facilitate precautionary measures; (b) include procedural measures in the Criminal Procedure Act to improve the protection of private homeowners without their consent and to proceed to eviction by the Police within 24 hours; (c) amend the Horizontal Property Act to enable the communities of owners to recover housing for the sake of better coexistence and to avoid annoying, unhealthy, harmful, dangerous and unlawful activities; (d) amend the Local Basis of Regulatory Act to avoid the registration in the municipal register of an illegal occupant and request that such registration be deemed null and void and that it does not constitute proof of their residence or domicile or attribute any right, to) amend the Organic Law of the Court to eliminate the offence of trespassing and to improve the procedure of bringing about the conflict. The bill we are debating today coincides with the Cantabria Parliament's request, although it is logically more concrete, and that is why the Cantabria Regionalist Party will vote in favour of its consideration, but we are aware that this does not solve the problem of affordable housing in Spain or that of many citizens affected by the various crises we are suffering. It is clear that the public authorities are responsible for taking action and that they cannot burden citizens with these situations, especially when what we are dealing with today is clearly contrary to the laws and any rational justification. And it's not worth talking about percentages or that the number of private housing okupations is relatively small, because one of the big problems is that housing okupations from various institutions, when organized groups enter, bitter the life of the rest of the neighbors. In Cantabria we have cases in which half of the okupation is produced by urbanisation okupas that do not pay community expenses, destroy the common elements and, worse, they are frightened to the rest of the neighbors, that end up selling their houses because there can not be lived; or the cases of organized groups that occupy a house, they manage to equip it with light and water and then they bring people who are waiting and provide, working on it, the housing. Well, these situations cannot go any further or be consolidated as a natural thing, so all measures are necessary and the instructions of the Office of the Attorney-General or the Ministry of the Interior are not sufficient. The prosecutors themselves say so. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in the Cantabria Parliament all the groups voted in favour, except the Socialist Party, which abstained. Let's see what he's doing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herría Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u36	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. We debate again, and I no longer know what goes on in this legislature, about octopus and private property. On this occasion it is Mr Garcés but this subject has been brought to this rostrum on different occasions, I would say that for all the parties on the right of the Spanish State: by Citizens, by VOX and by the People's Party. It is a recurring issue, perhaps the most recurrent of this legislature. It is difficult to innovate, especially at the level that the proposer has done, because he has decided to take the inspirational motto of the French Revolution 'Freedom, equality, fraternity' - 'Freedom, equality, fraternity' - and to transform it into something else, which was freedom, equality and the right to private property. Curious way to help a democratic principle as the inspiration of the French Revolution, what he sought was to fight for democracy and against tyranny and despots. In any case, he was talking about data and I'm also going to try to put the data on the table, from an antagonistic view to which you have manifested, but also real data. You pointed out all the problems of okupation. It seems that it was a hobby or a hobby of the citizens of the Spanish state okupar homes, who did it out of pure pleasure and not out of absolute necessity. You were talking about the okupations. Let me put on the table another even harder fact: 684,385 families have been evicted since the beginning of the 2008 crisis, a crisis caused by certain people. These data are from the DESC Observatory. Let's get on with the data. The General Council of the Judiciary says that in the Spanish State, in 2021, there was an eviction every fifteen minutes. This data is much more severe than the one you have launched: every fifteen minutes an eviction in the Spanish State, 110 per day, 41,359 in 2021, the same year that there are more than three million empty houses in the Spanish State; mostly empty houses of banks and vulture funds, mostly of banks and vulture funds. Let us also continue with the year 2021, to contrast. In the face of the 41,539 evictions there have been 17,274 reports of ocupation, and speaking and being generous, integrating in the ocupation both the usurpation and the house invasion. They should know - and surely know - that the dwelling is protected by law, by the Civil Procedure Act and by the Criminal Code, and that there are no supplementary mechanisms to which the law already provides for the eviction of the person who opens a dwelling, be its second, third or fourth dwelling. What you're talking about is usurpation, and usurpation is the empty homes. Of all the millions of homes I've told you, the 3.4 that the INE said existed in 2013 - because it stopped counting - 86% of them belong to banks and vulture funds. That's where the usurpation takes place. And what you claim is that the crime that already exists for trespassing - which is that of the express eviction, the express eviction in less than 48 hours - can also be transferred to the crimes of usurpation; that is, to those dwellings that belong to banks and vulture funds. And for what? So that banks and vulture funds get even more profitable to your business. That is the reality and not the other, however much it moves us otherwise. Notice that in these very days - not a month ago nor a year ago, but in these very days - there is someone who reminds them of something in what should be taken into account in the Spanish State. This is said by the European Commissioner for Human Rights in her preliminary report, when she analyses the problem of housing in the Spanish State. It says: Housing should not be perceived as a good that is only available to some people. Access to adequate housing is a fundamental human right for the full enjoyment of most fundamental and human rights. That is the reality of the Spanish State and that is the problem, because usurpation or otupation can be a problem but the main problem is the difficulty in accessing housing by millions of people in the Spanish State. The only thing they find is the inaction of public authorities that bend or defend the interests of the most powerful. Yes, I can look at the Socialist Party, because they are also proposing to do something with the usurpation that, of course, we are not going to support when they propose to put in the same rank the otupation as the house break-in. But you have ruled in this country for a long time and have done little or nothing. This is the drama and the main problem. This is the problem - as you also said - capital, critical, which we would have to face, that of all the people who seek housing and do not find it when there are millions of them empty in the Spanish state for a pure speculative desire. To go further in this debate, you have also raised who are the rich in this country. I'll tell you. The rich in this country are investing in the alarm business for a long time and, if you have good and are informed, you will see what is behind the big security companies. And there are two fundamentally: one is Verisure, a Swiss parent, but with a Spanish subsidiary called Securitas Direct, and another is Prosegur. Among them, they have more than three million alarms installed in the Spanish state, curiously, since this whole campaign began in the media and in this Chamber as a case of resonance, to make ocupation and insecurity a problem for which everything could be vaccinated with an alarm. Yes, three million installed in the Spanish state, six plan to do in the next two years. Do you know that the Spanish State is one of the safest countries on the planet, that it is among the top thirty on the planet and, however, is the first country in Europe and the fourth in the world in installed alarms, only behind the United States, China and Japan, which triple when they do not multiply by ten or twenty in population to the Spanish State? What is the reason for this interest? Well, probably the rich ones behind the security companies. I could talk about many, I could talk about the owner of Gestamp, I could talk about the owner of the shipping company Ership - which one in this House will know very well - I could also talk about the majority shareholder of Telefónica and I could talk about all the investors who have the money through capital funds - like Alba and others - in Verisure and Securitas Direct, but I want to talk and end up with one of those wealthy families. I could talk about the country's eighth fortune, which also have its money in these realities, but I want to end with one of those rich families - this is a saga - who are behind this alarm business, so lucrative for some, based on the fear they generate in society. It is a family that came out very profitable what they understood to be a service to the homeland; it is a family that decided to pay for a plane to bring the most evil and infamous character of the twentieth century to the Spanish state in the Rapid Dragon. The March family considered that bringing Franco in the Rapid Dragon from Africa to Spain was an honor for Spain, but what he did was to sit his position of privilege, and in things like these one still sees. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Otegi!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u37	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u38	Thank you very much, President. I'll step in from the seat because I'll do it briefly. It has already been pointed out by some spokesman who has preceded me that on this matter we have discussed on many occasions in the House, the last very recently because it has not even been a month. Our parliamentary group has always been in favour of changing the legal order with regard to usurpations. The last time was on the 2nd or 3rd of this month; we re-demonstrated on the occasion of an initiative that at that time also presented the People's Party. We have also said and demonstrated that the circumstances are in place so that we can soon address this issue within the Committee on Justice, as we are going to deal with a draft organic law that has already closed the period of amendments, which is the organizational efficiency law, and there are some parliamentary groups that have already introduced amendments in relation to the opt-out. I comment on this because we already pointed out at the beginning of the month that we thought it was the most efficient and effective time to discuss the legal reforms, which we believe are coming, to deal with the phenomenon of octopus and, in particular, with usurpation. That is why, with regard to the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group at the beginning of the month, we said that we did not take any specific consideration of each of its measures because we would have time to discuss them in this paper which we are going to address shortly. We have also expressed our axis, as the spokesman for the People's Party has said, to address the issue, which I will also repeat in this House, although I did it a month ago. First, we believe that immediate possession recovery through precautionary measures in the area of the Criminal Prosecution Act is essential. We also considered the involvement of social services in situations of serious vulnerability as a priority axis. We also considered it necessary to increase measures at the disposal of the communities of owners or neighbours with regard to the coexistence affected when annoying, unhealthy, harmful and dangerous activities or illegal activities are carried out. We also comment on the necessary amendment of the legal system, in particular the Criminal Procedure Act, for the speeding up of criminal proceedings and also the consideration of the criminality of organizations that are behind untitled occupations. We also say that, along with these aspects, we will certainly reflect again - as we did during the debates on the reform of the Civil Procedure Act a few years ago, in which this parliamentary group participated, albeit not many others in this House, and also the proposing group, on this occasion, of this initiative - on the holder of the good and on the legal good. In respect of the owner of the property, the differentiation, where appropriate, between natural and legal persons, as regards the owners, and the differentiation or not between housing and other immovable property, and within the dwellings, those which have been able to constitute domicile and those which are not. We believe that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss these issues. When I say 'in short', I understand that in December, because we will start the paper immediately; and, therefore, without going into any consideration of the concrete content of the initiatives of the People's Group, as we did a month ago, we will abstain. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u40	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, everyone. It seems a little on the day of the marmot this occupation. Let's see if they vote yes at once and we can get this out of the way with a reasonable solution and without making excuses that if there are some amendments, that if we're going to deal with one thing, that if we're going to deal with another... Man, let's try this, let's approve this once and for all, and let's get this problem out of the way. The octopus data has already been given by Mr. Garcés. Indeed, we find that there are people who do not want to see it, there are people who carry it, like Mr. Matute, with a blindfold and says: Here is no problem, you are commercial agents of Securitas Direct. This is what you've come to tell us. We have also heard Mr Rufián once accuse us of taking us to the Securitas Direct committee. It is curious, true, because in that speech we have not heard absolutely any reference to the owners. Don Mario, I too have missed making any reference to the essential and necessary housing solutions for vulnerable groups, many of whom are, precisely, in a situation of coercion before the mafias who, after occupying a building, above being their own, demand rent. Of course, you, with your dialectic resources, which are truly extraordinary, have subjected us here to yes or no, very own this of PP and PSOE: yes or no. Man, you already know that, in law, not everything is black or white, there is also grey, and, logically, when it comes to families that belong to vulnerable collectives it is obvious that we must give an integral solution and therefore we must establish housing solutions. In the same way, we must protect, of course, private property, which Mr Matute does not care at all. He cares about this story that he has told us about the alarm business, that I have been frankly alarmed about this issue today. It is true that this is a complex problem, which we repeat, especially when we rise to the rostrum, because of the number of cases that occur. It is worrying, for example, that there are people, citizens, who no longer trust the public service of justice, because, of course, if we take two or three years to get the eviction and, in the meantime, we have to continue paying the mortgage, the rent, the IBI or the supplies, that I cannot cut them to the okupa because it can be a crime of coercion, because I resort to companies of dubious legality, companies argue that, you go to know how - surely not for the good - they manage to vacate the housing. That is, quite the opposite of what in a civilized world we should think the citizen deserves, within the effective judicial guardianship and the normal functioning of the public services to which we are entitled those who pay our taxes. As I say, we are also faced with the problem of vulnerable families. We are faced with the problem of organized mafias who use octopus to commit other crimes. We are faced with another problem which, also, Mr Garcés, your political party does not put on the table, and it is that of those banks, financial institutions - and I quote it here, it is nothing, I can say it perfectly - which leave unprotected their homes, their buildings, which are occupied and which do not exercise the actions in recovery of these properties, creating a situation of insecurity and unprotectiveness, no longer in the owner, who gives the same thing to what happens, but in the community of owners where our children play, where we have to go to rest to ask salt to the neighbor and we find a floor that can be a narcissus, which can be a place where it is trafficked, etc. This isn't a yes or no either. It would be very beneficial for the communities of owners to give them legitimacy in order to be able to exercise the eviction actions, and if they win - they will win, it will be normal - whether the bank or the financial entity has to pay the costs of the dispute to that community of owners who wanted nothing other than to restore a climate of peace within their community of owners. Therefore, there are many cases and you will forgive me that, with all due respect, I tell you that things are not yes or no, but sometimes there are greys, and that if we could process this law, if the Socialist Party will let us process this law, I am absolutely convinced that we would reach agreements on these matters. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u42	The Ombudsman himself shows that property is not sufficiently protected. We get on the Internet and find ourselves - put your hands to the head! - the manual of the good okupa. One finds instructions on the Internet to be able to reasonably -reasonably! - occupy a real estate without being thrown out. If the police come and call you, don't open the door. He's stunned. That is why we put forward our proposal for a law guaranteeing the safety and coexistence of citizens in the face of the illegal occupation of housing. In this regard, I must also say, as far as PeCAT is concerned, that it is now working precisely on this matter and I see it very reasonable and very commendable, that it is a much more ambitious bill, with many more measures. Indeed, the penalties for offences of unlawful usurpation of property under article 245 must be increased, especially when they are organized mafias. It is necessary - as you have said - to include the most flagrant assumptions in the rapid prosecution of certain crimes. But it is also necessary to give the municipalities powers so that catastrophic situations are not consolidated which, I regret to say, enabled the Rajoy government, to which you were a party when you reformed this possibility of one putting his home, even, in a public bank in a park. We also want to consolidate and make permanent the municipal social housing fund, precisely in order to offer housing solutions. Also - and here it has been said before - the circulars of the prosecution are not important. Look What a coincidence that yesterday the criminal sections of the Provincial Court of Madrid reached the agreement to be able to order the immediate eviction by criminal means in the cases of occupation and the understanding of the communities of owners as damaged by the crime of okupation - not only the owner, but also the community of owners -, giving us, therefore, the reason. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, welcome to see the problem. The truth is that, so much so that you always ask for a sense of state - you always ask the People's Party - you who understand the sense of state as voting in favour of what you propose - that is just for you the sense of state - I allow myself to ask you today for a sense of state and to vote in favour of the proposal for a law of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's go back for a moment to 2015. People's Party government, absolute majority, Rajoy rowing from behind. With 10,376 housing options, what did the PP do with absolute majority? Swing, like the elephant. Nothing. Now every week we have the problem of okupation. Mr. Garcés rightly said: what is the real problem? Is the real problem octopus or is the real problem the difficulty that people have in realizing a constitutional right, which is the right to housing? What does the People's Party do, look at the finger or the moon? The finger, always the finger. Whatever happens to people who don't have housing... Anyway, she sweats it. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Hala!]] I'm sorry, I shouldn't have said this, I apologize in front of the whole House. What should the People's Party have done? To legislate on this, but he didn't. The corporal. The People's Party always works for the same: vulture funds, banks and Securitas Direct. The usual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u45	For the same group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u46	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal brought by the PP today for its consideration - previously pointed out by other groups - is an issue on which PeCAT has been working for a long time. I remind you that in May of this year we have already presented our proposal for a law to amend in three very clear initiatives the eviction through the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, with those 48 hours in which to display a title; the amendment of the Law Regulating the Basis of the Local Regime, to also give competence to the municipalities in the matter of coexistence and citizen security; and the question of legitimizing the presidents of the community of owners so that they can also act in those situations in which neighbours are the main victims of a reality in which the owner sometimes does not act because he wants to or because he does not know the situation that occurs in the property or in the community of neighbours. With this, you know that we have been working on these three initiatives, on these three ideas for a long time. We also have a great deal of focus, as has been said here, that this can be unblocked in the forthcoming work that will be done in the laws of organizational efficiency and procedural efficiency. Some of the issues that appear in the bill take further steps, in correcting a reality that I believe we all have to certify. This exists in Catalonia. The PAT is particularly concerned about this, because in Catalonia 42% of the ocupations of the whole state are concentrated; thus, in this matter, correcting and changing the legal configuration that it has, would substantially improve the living conditions of Catalans, and that is why we are also doing so. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to address this issue, that this is what it takes into consideration, a matter that is taken into consideration in order to put the debate on the table and, therefore, we believe that this debate is necessary. I would like to warn you that I believe that we will be able to unravel this with other tools, other instruments, other ways, than the proposal of the People's Party, but it is true that we are not going to deny the problem. We will emphasise that the problem exists, that it needs a change in the legislative framework and that PeCAT will contribute to everything that can be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u48	Very good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with an initiative to deal with the problem of octopus and, once again, we must start by remembering that there is a serious problem of access to housing, of course, but there is also a social problem, illegal occupations, especially criminal occupations and also those that disturb coexistence: mafias that locate empty floors, break the door and rent them or use them for delinquency, making a profit at the expense of insecurity for others, taking advantage of the fact that legal procedures for eviction are long and costly. A reality that concerns equally all municipal officials, whatever color they are, that affects all municipalities, humble neighborhoods and residential neighborhoods; a reality that knows and suffers especially the small owners, retired - said Mr Garcés before - who have the result of their work invested in a flat, a second residence that they are occupied and cannot recover because they do not have the legal and economic resources to do so. A reality that, by the way, particularly affects Catalonia, with thousands of octopuses per year and tens per day, with 42% of the state's octopuses. Given this reality, responsible municipalism has to respond, because it affects the coexistence of citizens, not from ideology, but from the needs of citizens. What we are not going to do is enter a punitive race, as the proposal we are discussing today does. Junts per Catalunya has a proposal with its own nuances, which focuses on the preservation of property and, at the same time, of civic coexistence, and so we defend it where we are present, in the Parliament of Catalonia and in the hundreds of municipalities where we are represented. Firstly, to introduce what is most necessary: a reform of the Criminal Procedure Act that introduces a precautionary measure to speed up evictions, because this is what matters. A precautionary measure with the aim of dislodging in 48 hours the criminal occupations or disturbing coexistence, always protecting situations of vulnerability. By the way, a proposal which we have also tabled as an amendment to the procedural efficiency law and which can therefore come out in a few months. It is the proposal that, with great technical precision, defends the Collège de l'Advocacia of Barcelona and the Council of the Advocates. We also want municipalities to be able to act when the owner does not, and for this reason we propose to reform the Local Regulatory Law on Local Regime Bases to extend the powers of local security boards. Finally, and not least, for this reason, two social measures. Firstly, there must be a full involvement of the administrations in public housing policies and, therefore, we propose expropriation to strengthen the public housing park and social rental, temporary expropriation only in the case of the properties of large forks which are, by the way, those that do not comply with their obligations as owners, and to allocate these apartments to social housing. And assignment. Finally, I would like to inform you that we have submitted a GNP for the transfer of the 12,000 flats of the Sareb in Catalonia to the Generalitat; 12,000 flats that the State is not responsible for putting at the service of Catalan citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u50	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already exceeded half of this parliamentary term and most of the usual speakers in this rostrum, much or little, we are already in place. Even so, for those who are following the debate from outside, I want to start by saying that, personally, in the exercise of my legal profession, I have seen many cases of mafia octopus and I have also seen cases of people in situations of vulnerability fighting judicially against vulture funds for defending the roof of their family. Both realities exist, yes, they are real, but also very unequal in number. The case is that I have not come up here to talk about any of them, but to evaluate the proposal for this debate. What concerns us today is the political discussion of the proposed law of the People's Party, a proposal that seeks to give the image of engagement with small owners, but which, in reality, is devoted to three things. The first, protect vulture funds. The second is to identify and stigmatize the most vulnerable people in society. And the third, to divert the focus of the debate: the right to housing. As for the first, in the first law, in the subject of criminal law, we were already taught the difference between the crime of trespassing and the crime of usurpation. The first, the crime of trespassing, protects the home where one actually lives. On the other hand, the second, the crime of usurpation, protects the property of a block of floors, even if it is empty; an industrial ship or a commercial premises complex. Given this legal reality, one wonders who would benefit from equalizing the procedural regulation of both crimes. Or, which is the same: to whom does the initiative or proposal of the People's Party seek to benefit? The answer is clear: to those people and, above all, to companies or funds that are owners of flats, of empty industrial ships, of commercial premises without use, but, under no circumstances, to tenants or to the owners of a house that they use for their own enjoyment and stay. For the people who are seeing us, it is not the same an illegal octopus deployed by a criminal group or organization, which generates problems and conflicts of coexistence and whose purpose is to commit crimes of drug trafficking or to sub-lease the property taking advantage of the vulnerability of the people - by the way, we agree that we must fight and fight this -, that an octopus of vulnerable people who lack housing or housing alternatives. It's not the same. Nor is it the same, as I said before, the number of cases, since the number of people who do not have a place to live is, to a large extent and unfortunately, greater. Secondly, this initiative has a clear claim to point out and stigmatise the most disadvantaged. Why? The truth is that it has not surprised us that the People's Party is presenting this initiative, but it is highly unpleasant to see how a parliamentary group bases a proposal to amend civil and administrative laws by agitating the ghost of organized crime. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, criminal is only the one who commits a crime, not anyone with a judicial process in progress. Stop confusing people with a tortuous use of legal language. In the end, it would seem that if you don't occupy the house when you go out to buy, you have to double all the punishments in the Penal Code, and that's absurd. By the way, the account of the express evictions is also false. That doesn't exist. There are no express evictions. For any person understood in law that is impossible. Nor is there anything to say about the forecast of this initiative to prosecute these crimes through the Jury Court. It is barbaric, because, in addition to stigmatizing, it wants to mediatize this type of crime and influence public opinion. It's barbarity. One more thing in this regard: knowing the problems that exist in many municipalities whose municipalities, with absolutely racist and therefore fobic practices, hinder the registration of some of their neighbours, it is unjustifiable that they propose to make access to the standard even more difficult. [[The lady]] Thirdly, the most scandalous thing about this proposal is its smokescreen, because the important debate lies in guaranteeing the protection of the right to housing, a right that is regulated in its Constitution, which they so much want and defend. In his State - in his State - where in just one year, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, more than 20,000 mortgage execution files were initiated, his proposal in this area is to facilitate the vulture funds to throw people on the street more quickly. And they pretend that we believe that you care about the little forks that have an apartment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your speech on punitive populism convinces no one and no one cheats. There is no evidence or statistics showing that more punishment, less crime. You only bring a negative proposal without any positive proposal such as, for example, putting all floors of the vulture funds as the Sareba willingness of the municipalities to allocate them to social housing; freezing mortgage prices; limiting rental prices, paralysing supply cuts, or paralysing evictions. I want to make a point on this initiative. The Department of Interior of the Generalitat de Catalunya has recently drawn up a protocol to paralyse evictions through mediation with families, municipalities and courts. These are proposals, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. That is why our position and our vote on this initiative will be negative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u52	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today we are talking again about housing in this House and it is not, once again, to discuss the housing emergency situation we are living in, to see what are the causes of this serious situation and what are the best measures to address it. Today, unfortunately, we are also not going to debate in order to finally adopt the opinion of the housing law. The right-wings come back to talking about ocupation, but why this commitment? There are a number of reasons I think we should point out. First, because they always like to take control of the discourses of hatred, fear, social alarm and, of course, the criminalization of poverty. That is one of the main elements. Secondly, to defend the interests - let us not be fooled - of the great economic powers and of the businesses that are generated around the real estate market as, for example, that of security. And, Mr. Garcés, I don't buy you the speech from the defense of property rights. In Spain there is no absolute right of ownership, we live in a social and democratic state of law, as you know, and, as you also know, article 33.2 of the Constitution reflects the social function of housing ownership, which in this case is nothing other than to serve as housing, to serve as a dwelling. Moreover, article 47 prohibits speculation about housing and the interests that you are defending here from these great owners are not characterized by defending the social function of housing ownership, but by speculating with a basic good such as housing. His speech is therefore not covered by the Spanish Constitution, however much it serves them. [[Applauds]] Third. While they talk about okupation, they don't talk about the real problems of access to housing. If the housing debate becomes the debate of the ocupation, then you do not have to explain that you are the party of the culture of the ball and urban corruption, as you know, and you do not have to explain that your policies were responsible for the great financial and real estate crisis that led this country and thousands of families to ruin. That's why they like to talk about okupation. Moreover, you do not even put on the table - if you are concerned about the phenomenon of otupation - measures that are moderately effective or that solve something; that is, in the face of complex problems, you put too simple solutions. Gentlemen of the right, you solve everything by putting people in jail for a bunch of years. The political lesson of making punitive laws the harder to punish those who commit crimes has been shown, throughout this planet, that they are quite useless, that they do not reduce the commission of crimes. So why don't you try to find out what the origin is, what the real solution is, why do people really occupy the houses? I will tell you this: most of the people who occupy homes, those whom you despisely call okupas, on most occasions are vulnerable people and families, victims of the economic system and of residential exclusion, who seek refuge desperately, in an extreme situation, in the face of the lack of response from the public authorities. And this is very important: for the most part, as you know, the real estate they occupy is closed, abandoned and owned by large financial and real estate entities. Therefore, what you put on the table is far from reality. If we talk about data, we could add very different data. For example, in Catalonia, a 2008 survey concluded that 82% of the octopus properties belonged to large forks and, in addition, found that the profile of the people occupying these homes were families with very few resources who had applied for social housing. In order to protect private property, even from large foreclosures, which is what they want, the best thing they can do is to guarantee to all people the right to a decent housing, because the problem of our country's housing is not the okupations, but the residential exclusion that is at the origin of that okupation; that is, the great difficulty or sometimes the impossibility of thousands of people and families to access a basic good such as housing. The abusive prices of rents, the insecurity in tenure due to a speculative and wild market, the lack of a public rental park, these are the problems, and I do not say this either my group or half of the House says it today, the European Commissioner for Human Rights says in her preliminary report on her recent visit - as you will know - to Spain in relation to housing. He says that housing cannot be perceived as a good that is only available to some people. The problems - he says - are the low stock of social housing due to years of scarce public investment, the high costs of renting or buying a house, forced evictions and rising levels of homeless people. Those problems, he said, must be addressed urgently. He doesn't even mention illegal occupation issues. Therefore, if we need to end, as you want, the opt-outs, even if it is to defend the interests of the big forbearers, there is a measure that is already on the table: let us now adopt a housing law that is in line with what the European Commissioner for Housing Rights organisations says, which is what this group has been defending for a long time. It's pretty easy. I'm done with two messages. In this case, one for the Socialist Group: it is essential and urgent to demarcate clearly from the ultra-right agenda, and that is to put neither on the public agenda nor on the legislative agenda the speech that the right-wing party makes on the okupation. It is urgent - I repeat - to adopt the housing law in order to comply with international commitments and to allow access to decent housing. I ended up with another message for the gentlemen of the PP.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u53	Mrs. Garrido, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u54	If you are so concerned about the issue of okupation, worry about the okupas and the insumious who illegally stay in the institutions of the judiciary. There you have homework to do. Thank you. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u56	With regard to Rule 72, I would like it to be established in this House for the future if the extreme right, extreme right and fascist terms are accepted or not mentioned - as I understand they are mentioned - to the group in this House, which considers them extremely aggressive, which is the VOX Parliamentary Group. I want to make it clear from here to the future whether these terms are tolerated or not.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u57	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, we are not going to establish a dialogue on how to exercise the presidency. The right and right terms are ideological qualifiers, as well as left and left. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: And fascist?-Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Any proposal aimed at ending the optupation will always find the support of the VOX Parliamentary Group, either in Congress or in any other institution in Spain. But let's start at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when they reformed the Criminal Code in 2015 to make the crime of illegal usurpation of real estate - that is, octopus - a minor crime; that is, they put this crime at the same level as sipping a chocolate in Mercadona. And, of course, with these limbs, with this Penal Code that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the judges have to issue their sentences. And it's not that judges are macho and patriarchal. As strong as judges want to be, as unfair as it may seem to them, as it is, that they deprive you of a good as precious as your home, are the tools that are within their reach. Okupa is fined and will be taken elsewhere. Whether trespassing or unlawful usurpation, possession must be returned immediately to its legitimate owner. [[Applauds]] VOX will toughen the penalties and return to a rational penal system when we rule. Okupación is one of the many debates that has brought VOX to this House. Since governing the left it is true that illegal octopus has tripled, but Rajoy's last three years, from 2015 to 2018, octopus had already increased by 18% and was a cry in the street. This proposal for a law that you registered in August takes almost point-by-point what we already presented in June. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when they copy us, they're right. [[Applauds]] Copy it more and better. They are, however, committed to leaving out the concern, something which I hope they will be well advised to include within the time frame of amendments to this bill if the Communist, seditious, separatist and heirs of ETA approve their consideration. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you come here very concerned about the safety of people and things in the communities of owners. We are, too, terribly concerned, but I ask: why in the Community of Madrid, despite the insistence of VOX, do not do anything to solve it in the social housing of IVIMA? Attention: okupas regularized by the People's Party in Madrid last year, 115 okupas; in 2020 regularized 91 okupas; in 2019 regularized 183 okupas; in 2018, 253 okupas over 461 signed contracts; more than half, 55% of new contracts, were for okupas criminals - because in 2018 VOX was still not blowing their necks -. Do you know what this means for neighborly coexistence? What's the matter, because they're social housing, they have to put up with this? Because making social housing is not just promoting it, cutting the tape, taking the picture and delivering the housing; then you have to manage it. They regularize okupas with false reports, with opinions from neighbors who are coerced. The solution they are offering to these families, who can no longer, is to see if they change their promotion. So you treat the tenants, as if they were the problem, and no!, the culprit is the okupa. Last Friday, here in Congress, my parliamentary group organized a forum to deal with the problem of illegal okupation and anxiety. I would like you to see - and here are the videos - how one of the tenants of the public housing that you manage broke by giving your testimony. He was telling us, what does it mean to live with okupas? They probably know: dirt, crime, danger, fear, threats, fighting, drugs. These families are living in conditions that are less worthy of anything. You regularize the Okupas of the IVIMA housing to clean up your Excel and the Okupas criminals become full contractors, while there are thousands of families doing queues that are not accessing social housing, and it is not fair. Because no, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the solution. The solution is to want for these families what you are claiming here today in the Congress of Deputies. Okupas must be excluded from any social assistance, because the Okupas are not vulnerable; the Okupas are criminals. [[Applauds]] Another thing is the families that are really going through a situation of fragility. These honorable families must be helped to pass the drink and be able to go ahead, without chronizing their poverty, without quantifying their dependence, without promoting political clientelism. This obligation to help, because it is an obligation, is the responsibility of the public authorities. Demagogues and populists are constantly trying to confront, in a manipulated manner, articles 47 and 33 of our Constitution, thus avoiding the responsibility of the public authorities and transferring this burden to private property. In VOX we want to provide legal tools to the forces and security forces for immediate eviction; to fight against the mafia and other intermediaries of the Okupas; to prevent the pattern and the constitution of the house of the Okupas; to legitimize the communities of owners to sue the Okupas, and we also ask for the creation of a register of sentences for unpaid rents to fight against the inquio okupation. [[Applauds]] And not only that the owner can claim the return of the IBI, which also, but urge the municipalities to then claim these amounts to the okupas. We know that the Government is on the side of the criminals and all the enemies of Spain, which, well, are the same. You're the worst nightmare the Spaniards have. In VOX we assure you that we will rebuild everything you have destroyed. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Esteban. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Guerra López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u60	Thank you, President. Mr. Garcés, they don't work very hard and they get the bull. They bring back a bill that we discussed here just nine months ago, the same one that they presented in motion format just three weeks ago, and on top of that we just found out that it's copied by the lordships of VOX. [[Applauds]] What's going on? Didn't they have anything prepared? Didn't you know what to present? Or perhaps it is that the municipal authorities are approaching and you have to create social alarmism. Because there are octopus and security issues in La Moraleja like there shouldn't be, right? Because that's where you pay for private security. [[Rumors]] One of his own, the delegate of the Madrid Government, Mr Ansuátegui, said: whoever wants security, should pay for it. That's how you see everything, like a business. And in front of his model, ours. For us, ensuring the security of citizens is a matter of State. For us, ensuring the security of citizens means guaranteeing democracy, the state of well-being, civicism and the coexistence of our peoples and cities. And for us, Mr Garcés, guaranteeing the security of citizens is to ensure the right to live without fear of all, not just those who have income, because that, if not, is privilege. [[Applauds]] Let's just end the illegal otupation. Let's do it. We have already introduced proposals - the lordship of the PNV commented - in the reform of the law of organizational efficiency, because in the okupations there is a criminal component that makes business with social vulnerability, and not only we will not allow it, but we will also fight it. We are going to fight it by investing in social policies, as do the general budgets of the State: 6 out of 10 euros to social investment; we are going to fight it by ensuring decent income for all citizens, and we are going to fight it by acting against the mafias who occupy housing, providing judges with instruments that allow eviction in just 48 hours. We will also combat it with 15,000 police and civilian guards that this government has recovered from when you ruled. We have recovered them because when you were ruling, you left 13,000 members of the state security forces uncovered. Meanwhile, the octopus tripled. And what did you do? Were they worried about the okupations? Were they worried about living together? No, no. You were in trouble, with your Gürtel, with yourKitchen. Then we didn't talk about okupation, then we didn't talk about security issues. I will give you an example: Badalona, year 2021, the second city of Catalonia with more options: police recruitment, zero. Badalona, year 2022: police recruitment, twenty-one. Tomorrow the Domus unit is put into operation to fight against conflicting ocupations. And what's the difference? What is the difference between the Badalone of 2021 and the Badalone of 2022? The mayor. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya: Of course!]] In 2012, García Albiol of the People's Party ruled, there were ocupations and there were no security forces. In 2022 he is ruling Rubén Guijarro of the Socialist Party, and is betting on making Badalona a safe city. [[applause]] And it is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are all known for our facts, and you, in the matter of housing and ocupation, will always be remembered for three facts. The first, José María Aznar and the liberation of the soil; the second, Ana Botella and the sale of 5000 social housing - social, ladies and gentlemen - to the vulture funds, and the third, to desecute the Spanish families. [[Applauds]] Because when you had the opportunity to choose between the bank and the Spanish families, you made it clear: the one you protected went to the bank. A decade later, our country is plagued by a new crisis and this Government approves the ERTE, minimum income, labour reform; increases the inter-professional minimum wage; guarantees supplies; suspends evictions; carries out mortgage and rental moratoriums; limits the increase in rental prices; relieves mortgages; unlocks Operation Camp, with more than 12,000 homes, 60% of them for social housing, and yesterday an agreement was signed to build 2750 affordable rental homes. That's our legacy. Mr. Garcés, your proposal for a law shows a great ignorance of our constitutional framework and of our rule of law. First of all, you propose that the municipalities should resign on their own initiative. The standard is an administrative register, and local governments are unable to leave on their own initiative, but, more importantly, if they did, those persons, for administrative purposes, would cease to exist and, if they cease to exist, cease to have rights such as education, health and social services. Is that ignorance or bad faith? In addition, in their proposal they call for the IBI to be extended to the owners of the occupied dwellings; 80% of the empty dwellings in our country belong to the banks. Are you not, by any chance, asking that those whom you privileged in the economic crisis while they evicted Spanish families should be expelled from the IBI? Isn't that right, Mr. Garcés, after 12 minutes defending the big forks and the credit institutions, the vulture funds? [[applause]] Yours is directly bad faith, bad faith. They are wrong when they believe that by fomenting fear among citizens they will draw electoral revenue, Mr. Garcés, the only thing they achieve is to strengthen fascism. Is that ignorance or bad faith? I'll tell you, Mr. Garcés, that's ignorance, but it's also bad faith. [[a Member: Yours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right and right, citizens' security does not belong to them. Defending citizen security is defending the welfare state, and that you have never done; that we have always done, we do and we will do by the Socialists. And we will do so, as Auguste Comte said, with love by principle, order by basis, progress at last. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. War.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u62	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on support for the Spanish candidacy of Malaga to host the 2027 International Exhibition 'The Urban Era: Towards a Sustainable City'. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr López Cano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u63	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. As you will know, Malaga aspires to be host or elected as host of the 2027 International Exhibition 'The Urban Era: Towards a Sustainable City', and in that endeavour there is a whole city, without distinctions either political or ideological. [[The Lord]] From that same philosophy, the Socialist Group today calls on this House to join us all and support this candidacy. It is already a global city, known and recognized, and, like other urban areas, it faces challenges and changes that will make it more sustainable, and what better way to do it than by hosting an international exhibition that revolves around sustainability in the urban era. We want to host an exhibition so that we can show what we are capable of designing and thinking for our cities, to tell the world that Spain is a great country that aspires to sustainability and so that the rest of the countries do not show their experiences and, together, define more friendly cities, in which our children and grandchildren can enjoy in the future. [[Applauds]] As I mentioned, Malaga is a global city, and cities of these characteristics are experiencing major tensions: problems of access to housing, massification, excessive pollution, inequality and segregation. The UN warns us that 55% of the world's population lives in cities and that by 2050 68% of the world's population will do so. Therefore, reflecting today on the city is more than ever doing so on society, and acting on it is transforming reality as a whole. It is in that debate that he wants to turn to Malaga and that he calls on this House to turn also, because the fruits of this presentation would also be for the whole of the country. Spain in recent decades has organized major international events, and we have all turned to make them work, and we have all been very happy when it did, which has always been. Now we want it to be in Malaga, a welcoming city, with the capacity to organize something like this and with infrastructures and services of the highest level, such as its port, airport, roads, metro. It is a sign of how well-oriented investments have made it possible and, being fair, many signatures in all this have been made by socialist governments in Spain and Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Historically, Malaga has been a place of encounter, art and technology, and wants to remain so now with this exhibition. We are the ones who saw Pablo Ruiz Picasso and Isabel Oyarzábal born, the first woman ambassador of our country and tireless fighter for equality between women and men; it was the city of Gerald Brenan, Vicente Aleixandre and where he decided to spend his last days Jorge Guillén. We are also the city that today sings with Vanessa Martín, laughs with Dani Rovira, dreams of Antonio Banderas and vibrates with the poetry of Maria Victoria Atencia. Malaga is already a technological hub, able to germinate the talent needed to make Google come to Malaga, to design the vehicle that will explore the interior of Mars and to design the electronic components that carry half of the cars around the world. We are a city of sun and beach, yes, and although we enjoy it, everyone knows it, but we are also a place of vibrant culture, of international museums, of knowledge and innovation, as witnessed by its technological park and its university. Ladies and gentlemen, those traces of history are also visible in Malaga: the first factories that brought the 19th century to the west, the port in the same centre and also the north area, with the large buildings, where the thousands of citizens who left Spain empty and went to the capital in search of those opportunities were housed. Like the rest of Spain, Málaga did not govern almost any of those transformations, but went to the tracks of all the changes. That led to many of the social, space and environmental drawbacks that all of our cities are experiencing today. That is why this International Expo is crucial, because it allows us to anticipate an era of great changes and, therefore, manage them for the benefit of the majority and also for the ecological balance itself. Today there are more tools and more talent than there has ever been. We have known for a long time that solutions exist, and it is more a challenge of governance than of science or technology. That's why it's key that we all get involved. All administrations are working hand in hand to achieve this designation. Here is the thanks to all of them, but especially to President Pedro Sánchez, in his determined bet to bring Malaga this Expo 2027. Together we will succeed, I have no doubt. [[Applauds]] The corporal. The Spanish Nobel Laureate and poet Vicente Aleixandre defined Malaga as a city of paradise. No doubt that image drives us to work every day, in every forum, in every neighborhood, for our Malaga. Reflecting and discussing the future of cities is not talking about infrastructure, it is talking about the present and people. That is why I am calling for close support for this initiative, that is why I am calling for this support today and that we are deeply involved, because so we will be able to dream and deconstruct better cities among all and among all. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u64	Thank you. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u65	Thank you, President. We live in times when identity and victimism by belonging to one group or another, invented or not - the Blood and Membership that Ignatieff wrote - generates rights. We are at a time when the bad politicians of the first part of the 21st century seem to have learned nothing from what happened in the 20th century. We are accustomed, and there are even those who observe it with a certain sympathy, to that around a regional dance, a language or a dish of food segenerate a nationalist cult, as if the nations were a visceral tribal concept and not intellectual. We live as today we look embellished any activity or idiosyncrasy that deepens in the difference, that divides, that makes different from each other, the lethal narcissism of the difference. Well, I'm from a place that's the vaccine against all this, I'm from Malaga, and if you want, too, and I'm going to explain myself. The eleven Members who are lucky enough to represent the province of Malaga here in Congress live a permanent reality, and when they ask us where you are and we say Malaga, the usual thing is to be told: what luck! Or how's Malaga? Or I'm thinking about going to live in Malaga. This is permanent and well known by my colleagues in Malaga. In Malaga very curious things happen for the times of identity that I denounced at the beginning of my exhibition, these times that run. In Malaga, in the capital, there are just over 45,000 foreigners, six out of ten new neighbors in Malaga are foreigners, there are almost three hundred thousand throughout the province, three hundred thousand Malagasy foreigners all. In Malaga no one asks you where you are nor is there a requirement for ancestors or eight Malagasy surnames or tongues. In Malaga, people live here, there, everyone. Malaga is exactly the paradigmatic place of what an Expo like 2027 seeks, which is to unite the different, the effort to find what unites us, not what separates us. Malaga is a city open to the world and it is good that the world comes to Malaga. Malaga is exactly what I tell you, the place where the different people live together. The Malagans do not feel or think Malaga exclusively, in Malaga there is no requirement to be of the tribe, because there is no tribe. In Malaga we gave everything we had to the world: we did it with Picasso, we did it with Chiquito de la Calzada, we did it with Cánovas, with Manuel Alcántara, with María Zambrano, with Ibn Gabirol; we did it with Bernardo de Gálvez or with our three Antonios - Antonio Banderas, Antonio de la Torre or Antonio Molina -; we did it with the sculptor Francisco Palma; we did it with the spectos of sardine or with the Verdiales, with the Holy Week or with the biznagas. We try with our way of asking for coffee, but we know it's more complicated, although it always hangs some picture in a bar that helps like Rosetta stone, and if you realize it I haven't used the terms our spikes, our Holy Week or our biznaga, because we know that it's of everyone, and it's that Malaga is of everyone. Malaga is also freedom, the capital of life as you wish, where no one judges you. In the heart of the city lies General Torrijos as an eternal reminder that this freedom is not a natural state. Malaga has a unique light that reflects the sea that watered to Western civilization, the Mare Nostrum. Malaga is an ancient modern city, Malaga is the place where you listen to me is always welcome, it is a place to stay. Malaga is full of people who judge little and help a lot. In short, this universal exposition can solve a problem that we have always had. Malagans love to share Malaga with the world, but it is true that transporting Malaga to the world is an impossible task, but now and with this Expo we have a unique opportunity, because we will bring the world to Malaga. So, dear Nacho, we will vote yes to the GNP that you bring us here today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u66	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr García Nieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u67	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-legislative proposal that the Socialist Group brings to today's plenary asks us to support the Spanish candidacy of Malaga to host Expo 2027, whose theme, as has been said, will be 'The urban age: towards the sustainable city'. I have already told you that my confederal group will support this candidacy. We will therefore vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal. About the position of the rest of the groups, let me confess something to you. I'm particularly intrigued by the position they're going to defend in VOX. Voting for a sustainable city means agreeing with the SDGs and the United Nations, which would be quite hypocritical on its part. Instead, voting against will reaffirm their negationist discourse on climate change, but they would have to explain to their voters in Malaga the kindness of giving up turning their city into the world protagonist of 2027. It is what has to live within a political spectrum in constant contradiction. What do we think about this candidacy in my group? Let's see. First, the international exhibition would mean a very important investment for Málaga, a city with a high unemployment rate - according to the EPA, 20% in the first quarter of the year - that would be diminished by creating thousands of jobs as a result of this event, a job that will last for a significant period of time: facilities, infrastructure, services, transport, technology, just to mention some of the many economic vectors that would start to generate staff recruitment from the minute following the official designation of Málaga and that could last beyond September 2027, once it was completed, as we already did in Seville after Expo 92 with the island of La Cartuja. This confederal group is firmly committed to the Sustainable Development Goals, as you well know. From the Ministry of Social Affairs and Agenda 2030 we continue to bet on the initiatives that contribute to achieving these goals and working to promote events that bring us closer to the achievement of our commitments. On the other hand, from our group we see this event as an opportunity for them to stop making excuses and act from the Málaga consistory, ruled by the People's Party, listening to the vast majority of people living in Málaga. Gentlemen of the People's Party, We have been demanding the following actions for years, and Expo 2027 will be the ideal framework to set them up once and for all. I am specifically referring to three measures: the first, the former land of Repsol should be used for the creation of a large urban forest, rather than its project consisting of a cluster of skyscrapers to house luxury homes. Do you remember the theme of the Expo? Sustainable city. Second, the elimination of the skyscraper project in the port of the city, promoted by an investment fund of Qatar, that will forever modify the impressive landscape, the horizon of the bay of Malaga. Members of the PP for Malaga are aware of the enormous citizen's rejection of this. Third, develop, as part of a sustainable city, a sufficient and coherent mobility structure for cyclists in all neighbourhoods of Malaga. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you are fully aware of the allegations in this regard. Few bicycle lanes and poorly connected are the cause of Malaga being one of the major European cities with a well below average rate of bicycle users. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Andalusia needs the State to continue to bet on taking advantage of the opportunities presented to modernize and to make possible a change of productive model in my land: green, sustainable and high added value. In the same way that we will do with the future candidacy of Seville, my city, to host the Spanish Space Agency, today we will support the candidacy of Malaga for the International Exhibition of 2027 and we will promote it as part of the Spanish coalition government if, as we all wish, next June, in Paris, it turns out to be the elected city. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u69	Thank you. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, what is a contradiction is that you approve a proposal that generates employment and wealth, when you only know how to destroy it. If the Socialist Party is to be recognized, in addition to being a government of ruin, insecurity and betrayal, it is the government of propaganda. Because it seems that they are already beginning to campaign for the next municipal and general elections, as they bring an initiative - of a sheet - where they call for the declaration of support for the Spanish candidacy of Malaga to host the International Exhibition 2027. Ladies and gentlemen, that was already done last September, when we received the candidature evaluators in Congress. Mr PSOE, you spoke about the management of the socialist government in Andalusia. What management, the one that spent the money of the unemployed on prostitutes and cocaine? What management, the money stolen from the Andalusians? The one that left us in unemployment and misery? [[Applauds]] In the budgets of 2023 Málaga occupies the position number fifty between the fifty-two Spanish provinces in investment per inhabitant, and today they say they are concerned about Málaga. In these budgets we also see an Andalusia that falls below the average per capita investment and this makes us think that this government does not bring Malaga and the regions that are loyal to Spain and rewards 1, nationalists and coups. [[Filoetatras]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u70	Your Honor, just a moment, please. I'm asking you to withdraw the phyloetera qualification, please. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u71	I'm not taking it back. 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u72	Your Honor, I'm asking you to withdraw that qualification, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u73	Did you change it for ETA heirs?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u74	For the first time he called her to order. If I have to call him three times, I'll take his word for it. I ask you for the first time to withdraw that qualification. [[Greetings.- Mr Espinosa de losMonteros de Simon: It is intolerable. They're creating tension.-Protests.]] Your Honor, I ask you, please, to withdraw that expression and continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u75	I'm not withdrawing it, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u76	For the second time, and I warn you that on the second call I must warn you that the third one has withdrawn the word, I ask you to withdraw that expression, please. [[Rumors and protests.- Prolonged applause of Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Mrs. Rueda Perelló turns to the vice president, Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, and talks to him outside the microphone.- Mr. Espinosa de los Monterosde Simón: But what a shame this is! You're creating tension. And then you talk about political violence! It's a shame! This situation is prolonged for several minutes.]] Your Honor, withdraw the floor and continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u77	On another occasion an independencer said something worse and what he did...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u78	Your Honor, this is not a matter of debate. Please, if you're not going to withdraw it, you don't have the floor. [[a Member of Parliament: You take it off!]] [[Rumors and protests.- Mr Espinosa de los Monterosde Simon: No, he won't withdraw it.- A Member of Parliament: Shameful! Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: It is a shame! Patricia, don't argue, go on. It's a provocation from the vice president. It's a shame!-A honourable Member:]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u79	You're coercing me, you're taking me away...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u80	Your Honor, you don't have the floor. Please leave the rostrum. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u81	It's very unfair.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u82	Abandon her, please. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much. [[Protests.-Mrs. Rueda Perelló leaves the rostrum.-The VOX Parliamentary Group leaves the Chamber.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Pérez Reminiscent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u83	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great honor for me to come up to this rostrum today for the first time to talk about my city, Malaga. [[Applauds]] Today we are debating a non-legislative proposal to show the support of the Congress of Deputies for the country project that is the candidacy of the city of Malaga to host the specialized exhibition of 2027, a project promoted by Francisco De la Torre, mayor of the city of Malaga, in his quest to improve the well-being of people. [[Applauds]] That is why Francisco De la Torre chose as the theme for this candidacy the urban era towards the sustainable city, because the concern in environmental matters and the desire to progress on that path is the one that has led Malaga to apply as a candidate to host an international exhibition in 2027. It is about placing Spain as the stage for an international debate and exchange of experiences on how innovation can help cities to be more sustainable. Its themes are citizenship, innovation and the environment, which convey the idea of the content we will find in it if Malaga is the chosen city: innovative solutions and good practices to ensure a higher quality of life despite the increase in population and its consequent effect on urban planning in cities; not in vain, in 2050 more than three quarters of the world's population will live in cities. This initiative, in which the Malaga City Council has been working since 2019, is currently supported by the central government, the Andalusian Junta and the Malaga Diputación, a social consensus that is reinforced by the support of companies and entities of the first level, which have been formalizing their additions to this project and which today already total more than three hundred. Next June we will know what is the winning candidacy of the five countries that compete. The urban era towards the sustainable city links and builds on the United Nations sustainable development goals by 2030. Malaga, as an example of a city that has undergone unprecedented transformation, focused on innovation and culture and with a strong commitment to sustainability and development goals, is the ideal candidate to host this exhibition, with which to learn and show the world its involvement with sustainability. It is a serious, thoughtful and realistic candidacy. Post-expo uses are well defined, and on them has been worked intensively to ensure that the city adds those spaces that will generate added value and will have a use linked to education, research and innovation. Unlike other cities, Malaga has already undergone unprecedented transformation, so it does not require an exhibition to carry it out. It is clear that if it is celebrated, it will help to boost or speed up certain projects. Therefore, this candidacy aims to turn Malaga and all of Spain into the scene of a constructive debate that will help cities around the world that want to join, regardless of their level of development, in drawing together a strategy on sustainable growth to meet the challenges we all share. Today I ask everyone here to re-exercise a sense of state, as we have so many times done in the past, working together to host international events, such as the Barcelona Olympics in 1992, the Zaragoza Expo in 2008, the 2004 Forum in Barcelona, the 2007 America Cup in Valencia, more recently the Mobile World Congress Barcelona, the future Alicante Port of Departure 2023, and last week precisely with the support of a PeCAT amendment to the general budgets of the State, the Costa Brava-Barcelona candidacy for the organization of the Ryder Cup 2031 in Girona. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to demonstrate to Spanish society that your political representatives can put aside their ideological differences and unanimously support the candidacy of the city of Malaga for Expo 2027. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u84	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the amendment of existing legislation on crimes against sexual freedom. [[File number 162/001118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u85	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the amendment of existing legislation on crimes against sexual freedom. Mrs Romero Sánchez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u86	Thank you, President. 'These laws I don't understand. Despite what he did, I'm alive. My statement to the Members is that what I've been through will happen to the victims. They've pissed me off, and a lot, because now I'm the one who has to disappear.' Antonia can't be believed that the man who raped her and was about to kill her will lower her sentence. [[The lady]] Olivia, Eugenia, Cristina, and so on, up to forty victims, who are seeing their sexual aggressors being reduced to seven years for the law of sexual freedom, their 'only is yes' law. [[Applauds]] Today we have also known the case of Arandina, and ten people have been released. On behalf of the People's Group and on my own behalf, we join in the suffering of the victims at this difficult moment that they are going through, because this law is an insult to the victims, and that Minister Irene Montero remains seated on the Council of Ministers is a shame. [[Applauds]] It still echoes the echo of his burning words in the tortuous and controversial processing of this law, when he was warned of what could happen. 'There is not going to be a single reduction in penalties,' he said,'machist propaganda.' For today the harsh reality has been imposed on the Minister's failed prophecies and on the purpose of adopting an ideological and very weak law from a technical and legal point of view, on which the slogan and propaganda were more thought than on the rigour that requires a matter of such magnitude as to protect victims of sexual offences and to amend the Penal Code. [[Applauds]] The General Council of the Judiciary warned of what would happen when the distinction between abuse and aggression disappeared, unifying everything in aggression, which would pose a serious risk of reduced penalties. Unfortunately, that's what it was. The Council of State warned this, there were harsh criticisms of feminist associations, and my People's Parliamentary Group also did so rigorously and explicitly in the whole debate, but nothing served them, they went on. Since pride, they didn't pay attention, they didn't want to listen to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, one cannot rule out ideological prejudices from sectarianism and radicalism, putting ideology ahead instead of the general interest of the most vulnerable. Now the damage caused is irreparable, irreversible for the cases that have been reviewed and also for new victims, because, thanks to Irene Montero and his government colleagues, we have a law that favors aggressors and rapists, who have committed these tremendous crimes, causing indignation and social alarm. This piece of legislation is the worst we have experienced in the last decades of this democracy. Oh, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened if this had been approved by the People's Party? I don't want to imagine what the streets would look like! But, you know? It's just that this wouldn't have been done by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And what has been the reaction of Irene Montero, since his watchmanship of the Council of Ministers? The insult to judges: misogynists, machistas, fachas, who do not have training. Look, I want to transfer our full support to the judges, to the judiciary, with regard to the separation of powers, which this Government tramples on one day and another, as well as to the rest of the institutions; as we know today, they want to assault the Constitutional Court. What about the ministers judges? And Mrs. Robles? And Grand-Marlaska? And Pilar Llop? Don't you have anything to say? Don't you have to defend your fellow judges? They know that judges are subject to law enforcement, as it cannot be otherwise. The problem is not the judges, it's their bad laws. [[Applauds]] We warn that this reform would entail a revision of sentences by reducing penalties, since the application of the most favourable rule to the offender is very clear in the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen who support the government, why not rectify it? Why don't you take your mistake? Why do victims of sexual assault have to go through this calvary, through incompetence, through the prepotence of this government? It's not the people's government, it's the government against the people. Let us not be mistaken, because this is not only responsible for Irene Montero - who is -; it is the entire Council of Ministers, from which this bill came; it is the Socialist Party and its maximum responsible, Pedro Sánchez, who is more concerned about his resistance, about his survival. We know you can sleep quietly at night, but can you look at the victims of sexual assault? [[Applauds]] And, of course, also all the groups that supported him in this Parliament. But not the People's Party, which of course voted against, and we warned of the dramatic consequences so negative. Ladies and gentlemen, we have hundreds of reviews of judgments pending in all the courts in Spain, and the People's Party is concerned about correcting this problem. That's why we're here, that's why we bring this non-law proposition. We are talking about the most deplorable crimes and very painful situations for the victims. That is why we urge the Government to rectify this law as soon as possible. And we hope you will support it, it is a cry from the whole of society, because, if you do not, ladies and gentlemen, you will prove that we are before a soulless government. Of course, I also want you to know that Alberto Núñez Feijóo will do it as soon as we get to the government, as it could not be otherwise. [[Applauds]] I call for support from all parliamentary groups. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mrs Giménez Giménez spoke in support of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a non-law proposal from the People's Party on a topical issue that is worrying society, and from my parliamentary group what we are going to do is to discuss and address this issue with responsibility and wisdom. That is why we have tabled an amendment. The first thing I want to share with all of you is my concern about what is happening with regard to the review of the convictions of those who have committed a crime on the basis of the implementation of the new law on sexual freedom. It is obvious that the consequences that this law has had are not the ones that were sought and that we have a crack that needs to be repaired as soon as possible; that is what we have to focus on, work on and solve. I say this to the government, and above all to the Lordships of Podemos: This law needs a review. The Citizens' Group has already set out in the work we did in the Commission that the rates had to be revised, and we tabled an amendment to raise the minimums. But, of course, as usual, we're citizens and they ignore us. Look, we're wasting a lot of time on correcting deficiencies, and what we have to do is fix them and stop looking guilty. The first thing I want to make clear is that I find it irresponsible to criminalize judges for doing their job. We all know that judges apply and interpret the laws in force. So let the judiciary do its job. It is unacceptable to blame yourself, and I really think it is a torturing way of not seeing the reality that needs to be addressed. What needs to be considered is the search for solutions. It is not possible to receive accusations from the Government of Spain from this level to another power of the State, and less so as not to assume that there is a crack. I think it's responsible to assume we have a crack. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have to bear in mind that, when La Manada was sentenced, all the politicians, including you, were critical of the judges' decision. We always defended their role, and what we said was that reform and modification were necessary. I am surprised that what you are doing is not only in reference to a review of the sentence, but also in return to the previous sentences, because it was you who, in the case of La Manada, asked the Codification Commission to make a review. Let us therefore deal with the matter with the rigour it deserves. You have to check, but you don't have to go back to the previous guys, and I want to point out what can happen by going back to them. In November, with the previous law, the Provincial Court of Valencia, since they were previous facts, has condemned a jailer who abused a woman under anesthesia solely for sexual abuse. You want that? Do you want a sexual abuse sentence to occur again in a case like La Manada? Don't you want our daughters, our nieces, to go out at night and be victims of a situation of sexual assault with the use of burundanga not to be punished? Don't you want when a person with disabilities is a victim of sexual assault, the penalties don't go up on the aggressor? When it comes to minors and when it comes to the Internet to use these new technologies for aggressions, do you not want this type of criminalization to be added? I think the right position is to know how to recognize everything, to recognize that there is a crack and that we need to improve. But it is not a law that needs to be reviewed in all its aspects. Not in all its points is disrespectful, it is also an advanced law. I believe that none of the people present here, none of whom we have worked on the exercise of this rule will ever want what we now see to happen, nor does anyone want to take a step back on progress. Let us therefore be aware of a legally correct position: neither the above is good nor what we have must be reformed. That is why we have tabled an amendment from my group. Please listen to the amendments that Citizens are submitting, and stop ignoring them. We will continue to work for an efficient, coherent response and, above all, thinking that, if there is any legislative error, the fault has no other power of the State, but that we will have to be responsible and change it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] It is not in the Chamber. Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of the United Nations We can and all those who have supported the change of the law of yes is yes, what more do you need it to happen to realize that this law is a chaff, a bodrio and is serving to protect aggressors and rapists, rather than to protect the victims? Eleven aggressors are on the street thanks to this law, there are almost forty judgement reviews favorable to the aggressors and there are 447 likely to be reviewed. What else do you need to happen? The Supreme Court, the Madrid High Court, the Malaga High Court, the La Rioja High Court, the Vizcaya High Court, the Cordoba High Court, the Valencia High Court, the Zaragoza High Court. Really, are they all machistas? Isn't it easier to think that the law is bad and that you are incompetent? It's much easier to think that. And in addition to the widely demonstrated incompetence, something else has happened to them that is still much more serious. Everyone can be wrong, but the last thing to put to the mistake is the pride that you are adding, a pride that is serving you to be blind and not to amend a manifest error. [[applause]] That pride leads you to say that the judges who do not issue sentences as you want them to be dictated are Machists, that the media who do not report as you want them to report are distorting elements of reality and social agitators, that those who oppose their laws are fascists. You have made a communication campaign, paid for by the Government of Spain, targeting journalists from this country. You have no scruples, no shame, you do not realize that you are the government of all Spaniards. The pride, without a doubt, blinds them. Of course, it is a great deal to ask this government for competition. But since it is difficult for us to ask them to behave competently, we will at least require them to act with maturity, because it is often unfortunate to see how we have a set of ministers who, instead of going to a Council of Ministers, seem to go to the yard of an institute and are unable to take responsibility for their actions. And that's all right, because you're representing all the Spaniards. And in politics responsibility is assumed from one word, which is resignation, which is already late and cannot wait any longer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u92	Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the rest of the right ultra, this GNP against the law of the only one is yes, against the Ministry of Equality and Irene Montero is just as miserable as the campaign of harassment and political violence that you, together with your media stations, have undertaken against feminist conquests and those who drive them. It is an undoubted feminist advance, and, as much as it hurts you, as much as some judges are making a twisting interpretation of this law to feed and support your attacks, this is a step forward in rights, and do not doubt that they will come any more. I won't waste another minute feeding your story. The law of the only way is to protect women, advances in feminist rights. The law of the only one does offer tools of prevention, protection, accompaniment, reparation for all women. As I said, don't hesitate that more progress will come, many more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Sweep on, good afternoon to all and everyone. Noise in politics produces nothing but distortion, and although it sometimes seems otherwise, nothing is heard with noise. And I say this about the issue brought to us today by the People's Party, a non-legislative proposition with an exposative part as broad and worked as tendentious, which recounts facts with legal appraisals with the aim of building a valid narrative to generate the necessary prerequisite to the operative part, that is, the resolution of the proposed plot. Let's start at the end, with two statements. Firstly, what you propose in this non-legislative proposal is not a solution to what you say you want to solve, and secondly, we are not going to vote in favour. And we are not going to do it, in addition to the reason set out right now, because it does not solve what they say they want to solve, because what they are looking for is to fish whatever is in this revolted river that goes down through this hemisphere, through social networks, by public opinion, in general. You boast of calm, temperance, predictability and prudence, but you are acting in the opposite way, rather at the stroke of headlines. Having said that, it is clear that there are some facts, in some cases exaggerated or even manipulated but obvious, to which we cannot make deaf ears. The law of sexual freedom marks a very important milestone as a guarantor of the legal response to the sexual assaults that women suffer and have suffered. Sexual freedom is not only not to be assaulted, of course, but this law makes the qualitative leap, putting us at the level of other democracies, so that every crime against sexual freedom is punished as assault, giving rise to the leitmotiv of the alone is yes, so everything else is no. We are not going to reproduce the different debates that arose in the processing of this law, but what is the doubt that most of this Parliament decided that this law was necessary, it responded to the social outcry in the face of situations of injustice that were being committed with the application of the laws in force and that from now on women could feel more free and safer. And that's because the central axis of this law puts women's consent in the center. It is that, and not another, the axis on which the structural and ideological change of the law hinges, beyond the purely punitive sphere, that does not spare it. I'd miss more! In addition, this law creates protection mechanisms for victims who were not previously involved. Our group voted in favour of this law, and would do so again, because we believe it is fairer and because we share the view that everything that is outside consent is aggression against the sexual freedom of women. And you, in the background, want to review the law to return to that differentiation, because you were against this unifying criterion. You believe that not everything is aggression, and now you want to cling to the punitive part of one side or another to justify what you're looking for, back to the above, and that's not going to happen. The law has entered into force and it is true that there have been cases of requests for a review of the conviction for certain crimes of a sexual nature, which, by virtue of the unification of the offences of abuse and aggression into one and in application of the new law, could benefit the convicted person, but there have been cases which have resolved to lower those convictions, in the same way that there have been many other cases in which no such revisions have been made and therefore the previous convictions continue to be maintained. If the practical application of the law favours the reduction of penalties for offenders in some cases in the future, we should review the aspects that are making it possible, without any prejudice, although we may not necessarily find them in the law. Do not confuse people, a change in the law will not affect those crimes already committed. It is clear, however, that there is no one-size-fits-all approach among judges who have to examine the possible application of the law to previous cases. So, before urging the Government to urgently review the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, would it not be more prudent on the part of all and all of us who waited to see which way the Supreme Court established? Although we have heard today of a judgment by the High Court, we cannot say that doctrine has been established until we have our own judgment in its entirety, beyond the holders. We have to wait, then, for it to be clear what the transition from one legislation to another is going to be like. In politics, and now, in particular, patience and calm are becoming unusual habits, obviously, because immediacy and the act of impulses are considered by some to be more profitable at the electoral level. Therefore, and in conclusion, my group is not going to refuse debates, but it is not going to be carried away by improvisation and populism either.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u95	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u96	Let us wait, see and proceed. It's just yes and everything else is no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u98	Thank you, President. It must be said that politicians are obliged to seek solutions when they are viable, if not; when they are viable. In Junts we consider the possibility of introducing now, taking advantage of the processing of another organic text, a transitional to the law of the only one is yes in order to try to restrict the margin of interpretation of the judges in the review of convictions for sexual assault, but with the law in force, opened already the window of opportunity for those who request safekeeping, it serves nothing. Not even making a new law and repealing the law of the self is yes, as the PP defends from populism, it would prevent the dripping of cases in review of previously convicted aggressors. You know, it wouldn't do any good either. The Ministries of Equality or Justice did not see any need for an ad hoc transition to this law, and it is clear from the past that there has been legal uncertainty. It is clear that it would have been useful to incorporate in that it is not necessary to review convictions if the previous sentence falls within the scope of the new rule. It is true that there is a similar transitional provision in the Criminal Code which has been accepted by some of the judges who have not received sentences, such as in the case of La Rioja, but it is also true that there have been other judges who have considered it obsolete. We must therefore think that it would have been better to introduce this transitional arrangement. The People's Group also says that the law alone is wrong in the fundamentals: to eliminate the separation between abuse and sexual assault and the drafting of express consent. Unification of the type - now everything is aggression - adapts the legislation to the Istanbul Convention; a convention that the PP itself defends but also distorts. For example, you say that the Istanbul Convention does not impose a specific definition of consent, but gives each State discretion. What does the convention say? Article 36.2: 'The consent must be given voluntarily as a manifestation of the free will of the person considered in the context of the surrounding conditions'. What does the law require? May consent be free, voluntary and manifest. Where's the problem? The problem is that, in order to get political results, it seems to you that sometimes everything is worth it, even putting in carpet mode before the General Council of the Judiciary, which refuses to apply what was agreed in the Istanbul Convention. We already know that it is sometimes difficult for the Council to adapt to European standards of justice. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group are beginning to enter the Chamber gradually.]] This is a good law for women, a feminist law that empowers, that protects more, but we have already said that maybe it did not close well. [[Rumors]] Some even consider that a period of six months - not thirty days - was missing for the entry into force of the criminal amendments. It is true that this deadline would have given us the opportunity to study what the application of the new law meant and correct if necessary before opening that window of opportunity that we can no longer close. There was an urgent need to announce and implement as soon as possible a new protective framework for victims of sexual violence. At this point, a reflection for all. What is the point of making a tougher law, with more years of condemnation, if we fail as a society in the fundamentals? Awareness, education, prevention. There is nothing more to see than the report of the Hospital Clínic de Barcelona: from January to October 556 victims of sexual assault, 51% more than in the same period of the previous year, and 90% of the victims are women. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] And you know what? All aggressors - all - are men, and increasingly younger. It's a disgrace. We can already make laws, but if we do not change the mentality of children and young people there is nothing to do. A closing reference to VOX, because I see some are back. You are ill-advised when in order to defend Mrs Toscano, reprobated the other day for your political violence against Minister Irene Montero, you need to say that she has a lot of manhood. That is also a form of macho language, Mr Sánchez del Real, when they resort to male qualities to put a woman in value. Here neither manhood nor'manhood' - I already know that the word'manhood' does not exist in the Dictionary of the Royal Academy - here sorority. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u100	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Turning to the law of the law alone is yes; turning, therefore, to the feminist proposals which are being put forward in this House and which, as legislators, we must sanction and put into effect, because, in the end, if we look at it with a bit of perspective, what is clear is that, when it comes to feminism, when it comes to violence against women, when it comes to aggression and abuse, everything goes well. All that is good means that a party supposedly of government, like the People's Party, commits the recklessness, from our perspective, of bringing here today this proposal to reopen the case, to create more social alarm, to qualify that law as a futility made by a ministry that only works on the basis of ideology. Of course I do, on the basis of what you're going to work on? It is obvious that part of our work is to transfer our ideology to the laws we are drafting. If not, what are you doing here? More ideological than his laws I have seen few; the law bites, without going any further. Therefore, we pass on ideology. Yes, that is what they have actually discovered the policy. Having said that, I am led by this eagerness that has taken us all to defend judges. Let's see if we understand each other at once! We are at this point because on July 7, 2016, a girl was attacked and assaulted and was considered an abuse. Feminist society, progressive society, went out in mass to the streets to tell the judges: You are wrong! Indeed, that sentence was revised and moved from abuse to aggression. Were those great jurists on the street? No, no, they were people with common sense. Therefore, the need to prevent the judiciary from continuing to issue obviously unfair sentences was transferred to the Legislature. I no longer enter into whether they were illegal or legal; I say unfair. Hence the merger of the two types. What has resulted in a reduction of certain penalties even though the fundamental fork is maintained? Yeah, but we're not here to solve everything with prison, prison and more prison. Above all, because you do not understand that the purpose of criminal law and imprisonment is not only retributive. Where's the rehab? Where's the weighting? In some ways, the law contains the need for prevention that prevents these behaviours and therefore progresses; for the recovery of victims and therefore progresses; for non-revictimization in the judicial and personal processes that follow and therefore progresses. Do you really believe that the difference is going to be if we have fifteen years in prison - by the way, as they never impose the highest penalties, nor do they ever do - or are they fourteen? Is this going to be the big difference? No, gentlemen, the great difference for the victims is going to be a process with guarantees, a process with rehabilitation of the aggressor and with recovery and accompaniment of the victim. The big difference will be that we put instruments at the service of women who have suffered aggression to get them back to their previous lives. And the great contribution is going to be that we make society understand that sexual assaults are not tolerable. It is an attack on human rights that we women have; that, by the way, we are human, in case someone has been lost in this way. That's what's gonna help. Therefore, it is not true to say here: O, social alarm, all rapists will come out. [[Applauds]] That's not true! And I return to the above: if the judges had wanted to apply the fifth transitional provision, there would not have been a single review of the sentence. And here's the thing: lawyers do well trying to review the sentence, it's their job. It is the judges who must know and assess - because they must not re-enter the case - whether that fifth transitional provision is applicable or not.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u101	Mrs. Vallugera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u102	I'm done right now. And it's done in general. Why now? Because it's feminism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u104	They shouldn't give you drugs that cause chemical submission, but it happens; so, pretty, watch your drink. They shouldn't take advantage of you listening to a podcast on the street to corner you on a portal, but it happens; so, woman, be alert. They shouldn't be sexually assaulted when you run out, but it happens; so, ma'am, you better not go out for sports. There should not be campaigns like this, blaming women and blaming victims who, out of carelessness, for wasting or simply for not having to be in constant tension, can be raped. There shouldn't be campaigns like that, but it happens. The Xunta of Galicia, ruled by the People's Party, has launched this campaign no less than on 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. It is the same People's Party that all day self-proclaims to promote the state pact but ignores the pact's own recommendations, which clearly state in measure 25 that campaigns must focus on the aggressor and stop taking responsibility for the victim; yes, measure 25. And, yes, in the debate of its opportunist, vague and lacking empirical data no law proposal of this campaign in Galicia, because the matter does not cease to be the same: the same by which they presented an amendment to the whole, the same by which they believe that everything is arranged with higher penalties, the same by which they systematically attack the Ministry of Equality and also, by extension, attack the feminist movement. Because this is about making use of freedom, putting consent in the centre, that our desire matters and decides, that women - all women - have autonomy and that we are no longer understood. That is why we have ended the distinction between abuse and aggression, because this is not going to stop us from being penetrated at the cost of putting our lives at risk, as it happens. Because it shouldn't happen, but it happens that there are those who know that fear paralyzes. And it shouldn't happen, but it happens that there are those who see in drunk girls the chance to have sex that night. It shouldn't happen, but it happens that some people think that if you have a couple you can't be told no. It shouldn't happen, but it happens that there are colleagues who organize themselves in a chat to rape brutally. It shouldn't happen, but it happens that videos are recorded without consent while having sex. It shouldn't happen either, but it happens that those videos are broadcast. It shouldn't happen, but it happens that someone gets one of those videos, and instead of deleting it, they share it. It shouldn't happen, but it happens that you have to take off the condom consciously saying it's an accident and without warning. It should not happen, but it happens that there are judges who see jolgorio in a group rape, who do not see aggravating situations in situations of superiority, who have come to demand a five-year-old girl to say no when she is sexually assaulted. Because it shouldn't happen, but it happens that there are adults who abuse their closeness, kinship or superiority to force teens to make a blowjob. It should not happen, but it does, and the CEDAW Committee's general recommendation 33 warns us. It shouldn't happen, but it does. The law alone is therefore explicit that gender-sensitive training is necessary for all legal operators, just as it is for human rights. Because it should not pass but passes, the law gives priority to comprehensive care, awareness raising, prevention, protection, accompaniment, reparation. Because it shouldn't happen, but it happens that some people think that women's bodies are a battlefield. That is why the law of the self is indeed aware of the importance of education. Because it shouldn't happen that there were aggressors defending themselves in silence, panicking at the victim's stigma, but it does. That is why this law treats women without the need for complaint. That is why this law places crisis centres for 24 hours. Because it should also not be the priority for judges in a country with flagrant injustices, evictions, dismissals, injury, pain, repression, not to warn lawyers in a hurry so that they can, as Mrs Esquerra said, do their job and be able to lower their sentences retroactively, the fifth transitional provision of the Penal Code, of the 1995 reform and also of the 2015 reform by which there is no revision when the penalty being carried out is imposed under the new legislation. It should not happen, but it happens that a part of our society remains macho, patriarchal, classist, sexophobic, anti-Egyptian, LGTBphobia and training. And because this happens and because there is another part of society - growing - that defends democratic values, human rights and social justice is why there is a law of the only yes, among others. The progress of feminism will not be able to stop them, because they have already resorted to all the times they have wanted Law 1/2004 and the Constitutional Court has always taken away their reason. And he told them something else in that answer, he told them to stop resisting living in the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u105	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u106	I'm done, President. He tells them to do the favor of being a democratic right - let's see if they are capable - because the more they attack, the more they will have us in front of feminists and those who defend social justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u107	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying that this proposal which the Group of the European People's Party is bringing us today is at least good news, and that the People's Party, for the first time in the history of Spanish democracy, has its own initiative in the area of equality between men and women. [[Rumors]] Let's do a little review. In 1985 the People's Party voted against the decriminalization of abortion. In September 2002, the People's Party voted against a proposal for an organic law on measures for comprehensive protection against gender-based violence promoted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. In December 2004, with the arrival of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's Government, the comprehensive law against gender-based violence was again promoted and - then, yes - it was adopted unanimously. In February 2007, the People's Party did not support the Organic Law on Effective Equality between Men and Women and, not content with that, resorted to the Constitutional Court - attention!- on the equal lists. In 2008, the Constitutional Court declared the rule to be legal and today is a milestone in equality in our country. In June 2010, the People's Party voted against the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and the voluntary termination of pregnancy, and once again presented an unsolved recourse to the Constitution, thus continuing to call into question women's right to health and autonomy. But wait, there's more. In December 2013, the proposal put forward by the People's Party, trying to replace the abortion law, is a preliminary draft for the protection of the life of the conceived and the rights of pregnant women; they know well how that story ended. I'm going on, ladies and gentlemen. In September 2017, the State Pact against Gender Violence was adopted, which you do not name in your proposal. The PSOE led in Parliament the elaboration of this pact that has the affirmative vote of all parliamentary groups, with the exception of União Podemos. At that time he ruled the People's Party. Well, look, in May 2018, thousands of people have to go out again to demand that the government include in the general budgets the 200 million that, according to the agreement reached by all political groups, were necessary to provide the state pact economically. And yet, it is not until August 2018, with the arrival of Pedro Sánchez's government, when the funding and transfers to the autonomous communities and local entities become effective. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín: It's not like that.-Rumores]] Yes, Mr. Garcés. And to conclude this brief review, in 2022 the People's Party voted against an initiative of the PSOE that has turned harassment into clinics for the voluntary interruption of pregnancy into a crime, a reform that today works perfectly, removing these integrist groups from the clinics and protecting the right to privacy and freedom of patients. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, on the subject of equality, you have always managed two scenarios: either you oppose frontally and radically and you turn the equality laws over to the Constitutional Court, or you end up taking up the positions of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] In both cases all these rules have something in common, which have become very large social consensuses and all have been promoted by the Socialist Party. Please note that the same thing happened to you with equal marriage. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, do not know a single proposal, idea or measure that goes further on women's citizenship rights, nor one! Ladies and gentlemen, it is an incoherence - not to put it further - that now shows so much urgency and so much concern for the safety of women, when it is obvious that it is a cause for which you are not sensitive, unless it smells like political profitability. In any case, I want to remind you that this law has a vocation to be integral. It collects very important measures, as other spokespersons have already indicated; measures in the social, care, health, preventive, etc.; and, in addition, it also collects the right to reparation of victims. That is why I would ask you to leave the opportunism and the populism of punishment aside, at least until we know the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, rushes are not good counselors. If you do not want to respect this government, at least respect the work of the legal operators who, by the way, want to remember that it is fundamental in the fight for equality and against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, in the area of equality at best, you are late. However, as we have invariably done, the Socialist Party will always be waiting for you to work for equality. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mrs Romero, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u110	For now, we're studying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u111	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u112	We move on to the next item on the agenda, which will be the last item to be discussed today, leaving a motion for tomorrow. We now turn to the motion for urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the measures the Government intends to take in the face of the increasing deterioration of rail services. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Cruz Guzmán García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating this necessary motion as a result of urgent questioning by my group, which aims to strengthen the commitment to the railway, the vertebrator of the territory and the tool of social cohesion, except in those territories that suffer from this infrastructure; the most sustainable and safer means of transport than all the groups that we have ever advocated in this House. We put forward in our question the abandonment of the railway network and now we call for support for specific measures, because, ladies and gentlemen, the problem with Sánchez is that he has gone from creating a slogan for his Government to turning his Government into a mere slogan, that is all. [[Applauds]] From 'to leave no one behind' - to be told to the Spanish families - to 'yes yes', a motto that has remained exclusively to lead the demonstration of criminals who leave prison early and fear the victims of sexual assault. Today we have seen the reduction of the penalty of the Arandina case in La Rioja; I cannot imagine the pain of these mothers or of these young people. Much publicity and little reality, much marketing and little management is what Sánchez offers and despairs the Spaniards. Minister Sánchez told us that she did not understand how we will dare complain about this situation; that we are little patriots, she told us. And it's just the opposite: we want Spain to go well. She supported the minister for her criticism of good European rail survey data. I do not know whether Mr Tezanos's kitchen has intervened, but I encourage her to step on the street, to look at the real polls in Spain and to look at the daily press in our country. The Voice of Galicia: complaints from users because delays in Ourense are systematic. [[Shows a press clipping]] The Spanish: travelers of the AVE Madrid-Málaga who stayed for more than three hours. [[Show another press clipping]] The Royal City Tribune, which pointed out that during October they had the week of chaos in the Avant. [[Show another press clipping]] And -how not! - the train of Extremadura, which has caused new delays, two hours in the Alvia in the connection Badajoz-Madrid; and it was the third time in the same week in October. Yesterday, our mayor of Algeciras, Landaluce, denounced a new delay between Madrid and Algeciras; yes, he says it was only half an hour of delay, ironically, of course. In addition to these drawbacks, we find that pre-COVID frequencies remain unrecovered. Where's the AVE Zaragoza-Madrid line at seven o'clock in the morning? Or the promised increase in frequencies between Alicante and the capital? Nothing at all. Who's missing the truth? Does the Government, which ensures that frequencies are 100 per cent, or are journalists reporting this lack of service? Mr. and Mrs. Sánchez, if you don't believe journalists, those who censor and stigmatize, saying they're right-wing or left-wing, they dive on social media. On Twitter you just have to put: complaints from Renfe. And you can read Carolina Alonso de Podemos, who says Renfe has collapsed the Community of Madrid. [[Show a tweet]] Or you can see Galicia's mid-distance trains, which have hundreds of videos with agglomerations and funnels. And if not, enjoy the ingenuity and creativity of our country with another tweeter who tells us: All my viral videos are from Renfe. [[Show a tweet]] It must be the only topic that unites all Spaniards. This is the summary: hundreds of users reporting the situation, nearby trains and half distance with delays and breakdowns, kilometre queues and lack of personnel. It is the workers who suffer in the first person the government's cowardice in the investment and planning of our railway system. Talk to them too and tell them how they feel, because they are the ones who have to face for their incompetence. He highlighted, for example, the attacks suffered a few days ago by the drivers in Catalonia in the face of a great lack of security. It is precisely because of this lack of drivers that 100 per cent of the frequencies have not been put into operation. It is now, after four years of the legislature, when they call four hundred places of drivers. Let's see, where's Renfe's human resources planning? The drivers have to go through a mentoring space with those who have more experience, because the safety of many travelers is at stake. We therefore call for the implementation of Renfe's employment plan, with common sense - although it is the least common sense that this Government has - and with transparency in the selection system, because they have already invalidated any call for legal certainty and transparency. But if we have to set an example of chaos in the management resulting from improvised measures, without analysis and without listening either to the experts - which I assure you they exist - or to their own technicians, it is undoubtedly their drift from 'everything is free for everyone' also on the train; measures to which Europe is saying no and to which it is not giving its approval. Your gift is causing the collapse of many lines, while the empty wagons remain in the face of the desperation of the users. Their goal has been the search for votes and what they are finding is a widespread anger, because to many the gift is coming out very expensive because they have to look for another means of transport or pay their ticket without discounts if they manage to get on the train without ticket. Now they say they're going to fix it after months of chaos; we'll see how they do it. It was as simple as helping those who needed it most, the workers and students, lowering the bonus. In addition, we ask you to review the rates, those that gradually, with nightiness and lightness, go up extra to extra, making box and putting the consumer things increasingly difficult, using even pop-ups on their web to see if it stings any infidels. By the way, a website and an application that fails more than Extremadura's train. This very expensive gift has cost the Spaniards 660 million euros that could have been an impulse to the late railway corridors, that will improve our economy and that will bring the best gift that we can offer: the reduction of unemployment and decent jobs that allow full freedom for the Spaniards to travel wherever and whenever they want. Mr Sánchez, I assure you that you will not pass into history because of your exhumations, but as the ruler who exhibited the worst history of our country, the one who had the institutions staggered, the one who clouded the separation of powers and the one who left the railway system dismantled. His debt will not allow us to forget in decades his disastrous management at the head of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cruz-Guzman. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the transport of passengers and goods by rail should be substantially improved in Spain, but we differed with some points from the explanatory statement of the motion put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. For Teruel There is the main problem of the railway in Spain is the neglect, if not the abandonment, throughout a historical phase of the conventional railway, as well as the lack of modernization of the passenger transport services that use these infrastructures. On the contrary, the policies that successive governments have maintained have given priority to the construction of high-capacity road infrastructure and the modernization of the transport of neighbourhoods, especially in Madrid and the major cities. It should be made clear that we do not discuss the need to improve proximity wherever there are, however, it is very worrying that planning has been limited exclusively to high-speed radial infrastructures, obviating, neglecting and ignoring without any justification the connection of the new network with small and medium-sized cities, using, as I could, the existing conventional railway infrastructure. That is why we have tabled amendments to add six points, which extend the proposals contained in the motion by, for example, the initiative to urge the construction of the high-capacity cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor by Teruel, with double electrified track, for mixed use of passenger and freight transport, as envisaged in Spanish and European planning, but which never materializes and, in the same way, to accelerate the reopening of the tunnel and Canfranc station for international rail traffic. It is also proposed to carry out a study to improve territorial vertebration with the modernization of the conventional railway, a study that was already included in our investment agreement as a central element of transport and the connection to bus lines and on-demand transport services. Also the modernization of the transport of passengers on conventional railway lines in the provinces of Huesca and Zaragoza and the informative study for a railway branch between Samper de Calanda and Alcañiz, in Teruel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. The measures contained in the six points of this railway motion of the People's Group are of urgent application, and we know it very well in Asturias, a community in which the service of closeness is in the process of dismantling, both the network of metric width of the old FEVE and the conventional one. Nor are we better off with the urban integration plans of the railway, the unique case of Gijón, the largest population in the region, which has built, and has not been in service for nearly ten years, a tunnel of almost 4 kilometres, despite the fact that the first government of Sánchez signed the consensus agreement in 2019, which has not only failed since then, but has broken unilaterally. Ladies and gentlemen, Asturias and the entire north-west of the peninsula continue to be excluded from the Trans-European Rail Transport Network, in unacceptable territorial discrimination which leads us to a decline in competitiveness and employment. [[TEN-T]] Likewise, the variant of Pajares, by which trains will circulate in the next 2023, will not be of high speed, thus wasting an investment of almost 4 billion euros and the characteristics of a great project rejected contumously over and over again by the socialists in this House, which was designed to communicate Madrid and Oviedo in less than two and a half hours; now, low speed by means of, it is announced that in three and a quarter hours. Without leaving Asturias, its two major ports, El Musel and Avilés, lack infrastructure and rail links for the transport of goods worthy of the 21st century. The great investments already made in the two main ports of Asturias are being wasted. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u119	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. This motion mixes all kinds of issues ranging from the services suspended by the pandemic to the Atlantic-Mediterranean corridor, through tariffs, proximity and medium distance. All this is very related, but it does not stop being opportunistic because: who can say no to these issues? It must be recognized that the Government does include these items in these budgets, and these objectives have already been set. If we had to say what are the priorities for Cantabria, I would focus them on the renewal of the fleet of trains, which really has huge deficiencies, and also on the security elements, the implementation of the Alpha, the enclaves, etc., which are causing chaos and is a total cry. Of course, all works in progress apply to proximity, goods, access to ports, etc., so we must say yes. I would say that we in Cantabria are particularly concerned about something, which is the sixth point - which is not contemplated as we like it - about the Atlantic railway corridor, from which Cantabria is excluded. Although in the Complementaries there are branches to Galicia and Asturias, we do not have them. We have requested the inclusion in this branch of the Bilbao-Santander section - we hope to have our Basque neighbours - and this very week a delegation from Cantabria is going to Brussels to see if it can be introduced into what is called the expanded basic network that has the horizon 2040, and I think it is not much to ask for something with a perspective of almost twenty years. That is why we cannot approve this motion and we are going to focus on the positive, which is what the Government is trying to do, to see if we can include Bilbao-Santander as a complement to the Atlantic Corridor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u121	Thank you, President. Today we are going to talk about trains and, as I have done since 2016, I am going to talk about the Extremadura train, as everyone can imagine, and I will also continue to do so until the extremists have the whole corridor because I think it is essential. There is a fashion now, which can be targeted by people who run for the next election, which is riding on the Extremadura train. The other day Feijóo got on the train to get to Cáceres and I think it's okay. The fact that politicians use the train is fine, but the problem is that it is used as a gesture and that politics has become a permanent pose. I think politicians need to use the train to know how it works, to know its shortcomings and to know what it needs to improve on. I usually do, and it is true that the train from Extremadura has had incidents, yes, but like most of the trains in this country and most of the trains in Europe, but most of the times I have boarded the train has arrived on time, and we must say so. I will admit that this social media and Wasap helps politicians to know the situation that citizens live in. I want to name a friend, Paco, who is an extremist who usually uses the train, a demanding guy, and I think it's good that he's demanding; a guy, demanding, and I think it's good that he's demanding, and a person who has a visual disability and needs public transport to get to his job, to move from Madrid to Extremadura and from Extremadura to Madrid. That's why I'm very much served by what citizens say through networks and messages. I don't think Feijóo will be looking for people to give him their opinion when he went to Extremadura by train and I doubt he asked anyone how the railway service was doing. That's why I recognize that every time there's an incidence I sometimes get the feeling that I'm Renfe's president. [[Rumors]] People start sending me wasap messages and bug me on social media like I have some responsibility. I'm going to admit that it doesn't bother me, I'm going to admit that I'm happy and, moreover, I'm going to ask you to keep doing it, because when I ran for Congress of Deputies for the province of Cáceres, what I was looking for was for people to have me referenced; for people, when I had a problem, to tell me, and people to know that they listen to it, being their speaker their deputies when they speak in Congress. [[applause]] I am curious that the People's Party is bringing this initiative here because they have ruled until relatively recently. [[Laughter]] Feijóo asked the other day for the extremists a train worthy of high speed, as they have other autonomous communities, and I agree with Feijóo because I want that too. What I have very clear is that if the People's Party comes to rule this country it will not guarantee that the extremists have what we deserve for a simple reason and it is because in 2018, when the People's Party ruled, the punctuality of the extremist trains was 60% and today it is 85%; when in 2018 the People's Party ruled, most of the works of the extremist train were stopped, and today all the works are under way - that's the difference with the People's Party - and when we also see that these budgets that we approved on Thursday with the vote against the People's Party duplicate what the People's Party invested in railways, I obviously say that as an extremist, as a socialist and as a train user, I do not want this country to be ruled again by the People's Party because that is a setback to regions like Extremadura, and I don't think we deserve it. [[Applauds]] In politics, above all, we need to be consistent. I am glad - and I also congratulate the People's Party for this - that it has brought this initiative here, but it brings it at a time when this government is referring to having the most ambitious railway policies that have been made in this country, and the figures say it: 4600 million for new trains. Of course, when the extreme trains were wrecked, one wondered: why were they spoiled? Because the People's Party hadn't bought any new trains. When one realized that there were permanent impacts on infrastructure, one wondered: why was that happening? It was because the People's Party did not invest in the infrastructure that all extremists needed. A measure has been put in place that seems exemplary, courageous and of reference, which are the bonds of transport. I know people who have to travel every day between Plasencia and Mérida who used to spend 800 euros a month and now can do it for free. The policies of this Government bring people closer and make it easier for us all to have the same opportunities. I want to end with a recognition to Minister Ábalos, who was the one who believed in Extremadura and the one who started pushing the train from Extremadura and thanks to that the extremists can now feel more equal and with the same opportunities as the rest. [[Applauds]] For policies such as this, it is worth being in politics, it is worth being socialist and it is worth voting for what this Government always decides. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u123	Thank you, President. With your permission, I will intervene from the seat. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u124	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u125	Mrs Cruz-Guzmán, you bring us to debate today - you are entertained with your colleagues, but I am addressing you in any case - a motion that is aligned with many of the initiatives that our parliamentary group, the Basque Group, both here and in the Senate, has repeatedly promoted and favored for different railway lines, and has called for the improvement of the media, the improvement of frequencies, investments in maintenance and safety, aspects that, in our view, are totally necessary. If you are betting on territorial cohesion - you said that railway infrastructure is territorial vertebrating elements, an issue that our group fully shares - social and economic, you have to bet on an important, powerful, up-to-date and quality network of infrastructure and also of railway infrastructure, as it cannot be otherwise, because it really is what unites citizens with their social and economic environments and with their study centers and it is what really gives them opportunities, generates employment and wealth. Because, if sustainability is to be achieved, environmental, social and economic sustainability is also to bet in a decisive way on an important transport network and a rail-quality public transport system. And if we are to bet - and of course the Basque Group is to bet decisively - on promoting accessibility to this rail public transport system, we must take measures to eliminate inequalities and which can help more in situations of economic crisis such as the one we are now experiencing those people who have the greatest difficulty in promoting the disappearance of these social inequalities. [[EAJ-PNV]] Therefore, from our approach, the ideological project of the Basque Group is aimed at a policy of human development, not developmentist, that favors those people by putting them at the centre of our political decisions, and sustainable. [[EAJ-PNV]] Undoubtedly our bet is clear on this type of action. There are aspects of your motion that we do not fully share and create some doubts. However, others do seem right to us and would count on our support if their parliamentary group agreed that we could vote for points. In case you are not going to accept it, I will tell you, for the Journal of Sessions, what are those aspects of your initiative that our group likes. For example, restoring 100 per cent of the railway services that were suspended following the declaration of the pandemic's state of alarm seems to us to be a step that should really be promoted; restoring the workforce of drivers by complying with the employment plan, because otherwise it will be difficult to improve those frequencies that we demand, and of course also speed up the construction of corridors, the Atlantic corridor and the Mediterranean, if any. With this approach, if you agree to vote for points, you will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. If there is one thing obvious that in principle it is an opinion of the person who subscribes, but that I think all the Spaniards know, is that the railway services in Spain have gone to worse and, moreover, have gone to worse in recent months far beyond what allows to excuse the health crisis of the coronavirus pandemic. This is, therefore, a justification that is no longer maintained at present in order to recover all those railway services that were suspended precisely for that reason in view of the limitations on the mobility of citizens. Many of these lines or frequencies remain to be re-launched today, mainly in the conventional network. In fact, to the questions of this Member for the perspective of time and the will to recover in each autonomous community of these services on 25 February, the Government answered all the questions, as I say, one for each Spanish community, exactly with the same text, referring only to one 'we are in it', expressly recognizing the deficiencies in the railway service and blaming the pandemic for not literally having management personnel, who are in the process of training and enabling. This is reflected in the replies given to me on 28 March this year. But the most curious thing is that with the services suspended after the pandemic and unrecovered, with trains stopped that stopped circulating and with lines and frequencies that are not back in operation, Renfe claims that he currently has the highest number of drivers in recent years. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not that there are no drivers, it seems and they tell us, but that the drivers are not driving trains. That is the only possible conclusion to the equation of fewer trains and more drivers who explain to us. Because that is the problem, which we are told to hire drivers, but they do not increase the trains running through our rail network. Worse is the situation of Cercanías and Rodalies, which have been abandoned for many years in many of them: roads without electrification, unexploded sections, facilities lack of reform and obsolete rolling stock, worthy of an era that in many cases is decades from the present. This Government has once again promised - last week without going any further - to groups anchored in its railway infrastructure territories. They are the same infrastructures that were promised last year, that were promised the previous year, that have been promised for many years and that never arrive. To Mr Guitarte, from Teruel Existe, it seems that they no longer deceive him, although it is not the same, apparently, with Mr Baldoví, from Compromís, or with Mr Mazón, a regionalist who has been able to do so, as we have been shown today, that they are still believing in the promise of the same infrastructures year after year. Let us not say anything about the Catalan nationalism of the right and left, which has come to criticize that the problem - I suppose they refer to the problem of Catalonia exclusively - is that there is too much investment, but little execution, and with that all is said. In the next election campaign - I do not doubt it - we will see them shooting again at a government that does not comply with railway infrastructure, but forgetting that they have voted their budgets once again. Problems happen and complaints increase. To show, a button, the famous AVE of Extremadura mentioned by the spokesman of the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos, who of AVE only has the name. Last November 1st there was the umpteenth incident with a train that arrived with a delay of almost an hour to Madrid and, worse, with part of its passage sitting in the corridors of the wagons. On 3 November this Member asked what had happened because it was said that the problem was that the train had to be changed because the driver did not show up and the replacement did not have the right to operate the Alvia 730. It is not that the driver should be changed, it is that the train had to be changed, and this is confirmed by the Government's response a few days ago, which, in fact, is what happened, and the solution is simply the cessation of public service and commercial services. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u128	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u129	I understand that Mr Ramos, despite the tranquillity he claims to have today as a socialist deputy, as an extremist and as a transport spokesman, is on the verge of infarct every morning, because those three circumstances, socialist, extremist and transport spokesman, must be a risk factor in railway matters. Look, one more. We've been watching the mid- and long-distance trains for weeks circulating on many lines with unoccupied squares, but it's impossible to buy a ticket because it's all sold out. This has been the wonderful result - I said the other day - of a frequent travel bonus program that has allowed you to purchase free places without any control over their effective use by buyers. Precisely, it is a perverse and contrary to what was being pursued. They now announce the same programme for the carriage of passengers by road. What is to be expected is that it is controlled that, in fact, tickets are not paid for bus seats that are not actually occupied because they are subsidized. Of course, we will support a motion calling for speeding up investments and works in the corridors planned and committed within the trans-European transport network, infrastructures vital for the development of Spain and its connection with Europe, corridors which, with the backlog they accumulate, are anything but, precisely, corridors. As I say, we will support the motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u130	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the PP, we agree with what they say. In fact, despite the high degree of opportunism and demagogy, we are going to vote in favour because it is always a good thing that the Government is pressed to carry out actions that are necessary, but, among other things, you have forgotten again about Galicia. They speak of the low degree of implementation of railway actions and forget, for example, that, in the case of neighbourhoods, in Galicia there are no such activities. I do not know whether it is intentional or perhaps reflects that sense of responsibility because you were in the government for many years. Mrs Ana Pastor was Minister of Development and did not comply with our country, because she did not implement this service of railway proximity, which also seems to be resisted by the Socialist Party and which we will continue to demand. The corporal. We are surprised that the Socialist Party's amendments are in the direction of eliminating any reference to the Atlantic freight corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I wanted to begin by congratulating the Bureau; that was good. Secondly, four tweets of Cercanías València Oficial. Close to 08:55, Gandía-València Nord, it circulates on its way through Xeraco with forty minutes of delay. Near 09:12, Gandía-València Nord, deleted; next train at 09:25. Near 15:49, València Nord-Xàtiva, today suppressed; next train, 16:19. One user answers, "Really? There are people who are going to pick up their kids from school. If it was a point, but it's day after day. How impotence! Impotence to be late, not to arrive and to have to ask for a justification to deliver it at work and at university. And this goes for you. We cannot allow the right to take our colours out in public transport, because it is an open door to future privatisations and we must make this public service efficient. We must also be proud of our public transport services, because, if not, we will open doors. And it would be good if a public transport law were already made with objective criteria when it came to distributing public money for the different public transports. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u135	Thank you, President. Madam PP Member, you said that the government is not complying with the rolling plans, but neither did you. You said you did not notice the deterioration of services, but neither did you. He said new trains are needed, but you didn't buy a single new train in Catalonia. Its management in Catalonia, lords of the People's Party, was harmful - and used the same concept that the minister used last week in the inquiry - but just as harmful as that of the current government. If at any point we could agree on this motion, it is in point 6: speed up the Mediterranean corridor. With its amendment, the Socialist Party deletes point 6. This is the interest of this Government in the Mediterranean corridor. This morning the Junts deputies were not able to attend the press conference that we had planned because the train that we took in Barcelona has left an hour late, and so there are daily users of the trains in Catalonia: they arrive late to their jobs, they arrive late to the university, they arrive late to their appointments... With you we lose productivity, we lose time and we lose money. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u137	That's right, the service is free. It is only necessary to review the data that you yourself publish on the websites of the ministries to affirm that all of you, one and the other, are lacking in the truth. For example, the impact of the non-implementation of budgets is the loss of opportunity for the creation of some 100,000 jobs in Catalonia. There are investment plans in Catalonia that have been at the table of the People's Party, at the table of the Socialist Party, at the table of the most progressive government in history for more than thirty years. That's right, every year the announcement of the rain of millions doesn't fail. As of the year, Adif has reported more than 330 incidents in Catalonia alone. Rodalies de Catalunya records 44% more incidents and failures than Cercanías Madrid, and it seems that because the bad service is free we cannot complain. Well, we complain, we complain because we don't want charity, we want investment. If you touch a hundred, you pay a hundred and you don't pay twenty-four. We don't want headlines, we don't want reunions, we don't want inventions, we want what's ours. I'm on my way, President. The citizens of Catalonia pay taxes and pay a lot of taxes to have decent and functioning services. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u139	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, good afternoon. I confess to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that I have checked quite a few times the authorship of the motion and every time I saw that it was actually the People's Party that proposed it, I was surprised. How many years did the People's Party rule without investing in neighbourhoods? Accelerate the construction of the Mediterranean and Atlantic corridors? You know they're not going through Madrid? We welcome the fact that they are now concerned about public transport and about rolling stock, or at least that they will show it, because when they have had the opportunity to govern, these investments that they are now asking for, in Catalonia we didn't even smell them. Although, to be fair, we are clear that it governs who rules in the Moncloa the state will never go in favor of Catalonia of the Catalan countries. The model of State investment and infrastructure policy perfectly defines the functioning of a State characterized by inefficiency, centralism and nepotism. [[Applauds]] Its infrastructure model is irrational from an economic, productive and territorial justice point of view, much more based on the interest of a few than on a design that benefits most. A clear penalty for the popular classes and the most deprived areas. Its Spanish nationalist logic only responds to a centralist and radial vision, supported by the economic interests of business groups too linked to structures of the Spanish parties. His party created a genuine corruption plot where corrupts and corrupters benefited individually. Even his party benefited from illegal corruption. Result of this institutional corruption: an inefficient design of the high speed rail system, causing that the profitability and economic viability of the more than 50 billion invested in AVE have not been taken into account; delays in the corridor of the Mediterranean of goods and passengers; lack of decent rail connection between the Valencia Country and Catalonia, lack of high speed connection with Europe, delays in railway access to the ports of Barcelona, Tarragona and Valencia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u141	Chronic lack of investment in Rodalies, especially in Catalonia. We have repeated it on other occasions, there are lines in very poor condition. To name a few: R-4, R-3 and R-12, all in Catalonia, with journeys that now take more than a hundred years. [[Applauds]] The number of occurrences, delays and cancellations of trains that affect the network every day has degraded the quality of the service to the point of undermining the productive, economic and competitive capacity of all the municipalities of the Catalan countries. We do not want to end without mentioning the number of times that this issue of the railway deficit has been dealt with, both in Congress and in the Senate - PNL, motions, oral questions, written...-, in order to improve the service and make it worthy. From our group we demand a model of sustainable mobility, prioritizing non-polluting mobility, with more prominence for public transport and not for private vehicles. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u142	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Granollers. I'm sorry to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to follow the intervention of the speaker. I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u143	Sustainable infrastructure for the productive economy, planned with criteria of socio-economic profitability, cost assessment and social, territorial and environmental impact. To promote public transport as a cornerstone of policies on the right to mobility. The programming of intermodality and financing systems are essential for the efficient management of a high-quality public service. Consolidation and improvement of the current rail network, with the system of proximity as a priority. We want to ensure infrastructure for the country, a 100 per cent public service and quality, as well as to shield the rights of the popular classes and small and medium-sized enterprises in Catalonia. To that end, we are clear. Two things: Republican and municipalist vision in infrastructure planning. Don't ask me any more why we're independenceists. I'm on my way. We celebrate his vision. We will be voting in favour of this motion. How were we going to vote against it? But I warn you, we're going to keep it because if one day - let's hope they don't - they rule, let's see what they're going to do about it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granollers. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that I would have enough words to explain our position on the motion tabled by the People's Party today. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u146	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u147	We are going to vote against and not because we are against improvements in rail service, but because we are against the hypocrisy of the People's Party. I could tell you that I was surprised that the People's Party presented this question, the question that precedes this motion that we are debating today, but the truth is that it has not surprised me because we are already accustomed by the People's Party to say one thing when it is in the opposition and to do the opposite when it is in the government. I thought it was supposed to be a rookie thing. Let us remember that both the spokesman here in Congress and the President of the People's Party have been in office very recently, and I say: perhaps they have not stopped to look at what their predecessors have done when they are in government. I ruled out that idea because it doesn't seem very logical to me. Then I thought, "Ah, shut up, the People's Party doesn't like that about historical memory! It must be this, that they don't remember what they do when they rule. But there are newspapers, so the idea was not very consistent either. So I've just come to the conclusion that what happens is that the People's Party has a lot of grip. His lordship of the People's Party, who was in charge of defending the interpellation that precedes this motion, had the defachability to stand up as a defender of public services, when it is evident and notorious the dismantling of public health, of a public service that they are doing in communities like Madrid. The People's Party, moreover, has the defachability to present, with this motion, in defense of the public train at more affordable prices, of the maintenance of the tracks, when they were the main architects of the deterioration of our railway services. Moreover, they come here and talk about the deterioration of the roads - which is true there are some who are wrong and our parliamentary group has already argued that this is not a reason for dismantling certain lines - as if the deterioration of the roads from one day to the next. But, gentlemen of the People's Party, if in six years you have been in government you have not invested anything for your maintenance, now do not complain. If you don't clean the kitchen in six years, the fat won't go away and you can't then blame the next tenant. [[Applauds]] In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, they have been very wrong about the train, about the centralist design, about the dismantling of roads that did play the role of social and territorial cohesion that public transport must play. In fact, we are seeing how some citizen initiatives are recovering projects that, at the time, already existed and were dismantled. Without going further, I can tell you about the province of Girona, the train-tram of the Costa Brava, a project that arose from the citizens' initiative that intends to equip by train the regions of Baix Empordà; a region, ladies and gentlemen, where it has been counted that there are 970 vehicles per thousand inhabitants. This is a clear indication of the deficit we have in public transport services. By the way, I would like to thank the Association for the Promotion of Public Transport, which has promoted the initiative that I have told you about the Costa Brava train-tram. In Spain, as I said to you, they have been very wrong about the train: in the management of rail freight transport, which does not reach the European average, we have been wrong in the management of the unfortunate privatization, and they have been wrong by investing in AVE and forgetting the proximity. Now the PP can't come and sell us the bike. Well, the train, let's say. When the People's Party last ruled, it buried under the carpet the plans of closeness of the previous government, and it was only remembered that there were closeness, in this case, to Catalonia, for electoral purposes. We have even seen headlines - I read literally - as: Rajoy climbs in close proximity for the first time in six years of government; for the first time in six years of government some notable investment in close proximity. And then they come to us with the lines being damaged. Man, of course they're damaged! The People's Party government has indebted us all with an AVE that no one needed and that we are still paying. I'll give you an example. Some budgets of the People's Party devoted 67% of the investment in railway infrastructure to AVE, which was only used by 7% of the people; 67/7. On the other hand, only 5% of the railway budget was devoted to the neighbourhood line, which was used by 88% of the people, more than anything working class. I guess that's why he wasn't interested.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u148	Mrs. Lopez, you have to finish, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u149	I'm finishing up. We say no to the hypocrisy of the People's Party, but we say yes to closeness, a collective agreement for people working in the sector, yes to the night train and yes to public, social, affordable and sustainable transport. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Miralles Martín has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. With the venom. Dear Patricia, the grass is green, the milk is white, the mosquitoes sting and a person condemned for the heightening of terrorism has a name; and taking away the word for using that name in this House is a shame. Long live freedom! [[Applauds]] A motion by the Group of the European People's Party is being debated, by which the Government is roughly urged to restore 100 per cent of the railway services suspended after the state of alarm, the recovery of the crew of drivers, the promotion of improvement plans, the revision of the tariff system, as well as the impetus of the Mediterranean and Atlantic corridors, which has been somewhat washed up because they have introduced this last point of the petitum, which, in my view, does not come too far from the point of view, although it is a necessity - as I say - it does not come to the point. From the reading of the motion and the intervention of the Socialist spokesman, he recalled the increasingly common strategy that is brought to the parliamentary debate, which is that of the tennis party without a network, in which there are no rules, no technique, no capacity, the reproaches are eternal and, therefore, the infrastructures are eternal in the face of the absolute despair of the spectators, who are the suffering Spaniards sick of racquets of left and abidextres. [[Applauds]] The first set of this hypothetical networkless tennis game is the AVE to Extremadura, which was promised in writing ten years ago by the Socialist Party's infrastructure spokesman and now mocks when remembered. The second set of this hypothetical networkless tennis game could be the train from Motril to Granada. A few days ago, the brilliant secretary general of Infrastructures of the ministry announced that he has rejected the project as unviable, giving negative TIR data, reaching that conclusion without a feasibility study, which seems to me colossal. With such effective politicians it is unquestionable that we will save the unspeakable in studies and, of course, in works; brilliance and efficiency, said in quotes, which Mr Rodríguez Gómez de Celis has also shown today. That gift is seen to be inoculated at Jaime Vera. That secretary general of the PSOE that was at the head of the demands of the Granada-Motril train is of the same party that was at the head of the yellow tides demanding in Granada the underground of the AVE. Today that PSOE turns their faces to the neighbors of La Chana, Pajaritos, Rosaleda and the youth barriad, and now the PP is jealous of them without remembering that before that same PP turned his back on them. I take advantage of the change of set to tell you that, today, those bikers and dummies who were talking about last week at the expense of budgets are meeting with their banner, in Catalan, asking for infrastructures at the door of the Palace of the Moncloa. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u152	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u153	Let's go to the third set of the netless tennis game, the Costa del Sol runner. In 2016, the Socialist Party demanded it in the parliamentary seat and the clothes were torn by asking for it, and in 2020 the ball was thrown by the People's Party with a PNL to link that Mediterranean corridor to the Next Generation funds. Let's go to the fourth set, and I promise it's the last one, because we could be here talking about the long-term networkless tennis game, which is the Mediterranean runner, which stays in Almeria. The Valencian lobby is already happy and the friends of Catalan independence are already happy. I conclude, Madam President, with three questions. Why is there no concrete national plan that is effectively implemented? Have you ever thought about solving problems instead of being the problem? Is it not due, among other things, to the surrender of the Government by action or omission to the insatiable voraciousness of the independenceists and enemies of the nation? I hope that these questions will be answered, and I also hope that this supplication will soon be completed at the hands of a Government that benefits terrorists and flounders, which is the term commonly known to the person convicted of the threat of terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing.-A Member: Olé!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u154	Mr Miralles, I remind you that it is the duty of all Members to observe the Rules of Procedure of the House and, clearly, the last words to which you referred violate Rule 16 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you very much. Mrs Cruz Guzmán García, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u155	We do not accept the amendments, but we do agree to vote on points.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u156	All right. The motion will then be put to the vote on points. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin voting. It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October of the Constitutional Court on the obligation to give reasons and to publish decisions on admission and non-admission of amparo applications. It has an organic character. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 167 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u158	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which is an organization against illegal employment and for the protection of the safety and security of persons and things in the communities of owners. [[File number 122/00248]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u159	Proposition of the law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, organic against illegal occupation and for neighborhood coexistence and protection of the security of people and things in the communities of owners. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 160 against, 178 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-29-CD221129.u160	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Thank you all very much. Good night. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight o'clock at night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 225, corresponding to the plenary session number 217, held on Thursday 24 November 2022, on page 45, in the intervention of Mr Bal Francés, third line, where it says: 'Carlos Campillo, Camino,...' must say 'Carlos Campillos, Canino,...'.
