ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the agenda item on the full debate on the draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons. The Minister for Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps today Sonia Rescalvo could be in the gallery in this Chamber accompanying other LGBT activists and trans activists if she had not been vilely murdered by neo-Nazi fascists in a square just today 31 years ago. [[Applauds]] In his memory we are here today to advance rights. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a debate in this Chamber that you have lost before we begin. PP and VOX have tabled two amendments to the whole knowing that they will lose them, that the trans and LGBT rights law will continue to be processed and that it will be adopted before the end of this year. You do not have the votes, ladies and gentlemen, because we are more in this House and in society who want the trans law to be law, who want the state to stop having an outstanding debt to trans people. We are more who want everyone to be able to walk around the street with their partner or go to work without hiding who he slept with the night before and that each person can be who he is without fear of being discriminated against for it. They do not have the votes because at a time as difficult as this we are more who want to face the united difficulties, strengthening society, making feminist policies, guaranteeing rights for 'all' and expanding democracy. We are more who are willing to give it all for gaining rights, as our mothers and grandmothers have taught us, and we are also willing to put the body and look at them from the front, because you, the right-wing and your reactionary project, are stopped with more rights so that everyone can live well. You have lost this debate before you start it, but this defeat comes from afar. In 2019 this House was very close to recognizing the right to self-determination of gender identity with the vote in favour of all-lords, of all parliamentary groups in this House. In particular, the opinion to refer to the Commission was signed by the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the United Podemos, Citizens, the Republican Left of Catalonia, the Basque Nationalist Party and Compromis. The adopted opinion stated the following - I read them literally -. Article 4 is worded as follows: Article 4. Requirements to agree on rectification. The application for registration of the sex reference does not specify any more requirements than the express declaration of the person concerned or his or her legal representatives of the name and registered sex with which he or she feels he or she is identified, which shall be expressed in a declaration which has lost the will, as well as the necessary data of the registration which is intended to be rectified and the national identity document. The effectiveness of the right to recognition of sexual identity or gender expression and, where appropriate, the rectification of the registration of sex may not be conditional, under any circumstances, on the accreditation of having undergone any type of surgery, hormonal therapy or psychological, psychiatric or medical treatment or on the accreditation of any kind of pathology or medical condition. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, what happened? What has changed since 2019 until now? Why in 2019 did they see the need to recognize the right to self-determination of gender identity and in 2022 they reject it with all kinds of bubbles and manipulations and feeding the transphobia that so much suffering causes trans people, their families, their loved ones and that both shame and society? His lordship, Marta González, who just a week ago released a bolt of transphobia in the control session, was the rapporteur of that rule. Your Honor, with all due respect, I believe you have a total of zero arguments. Many bulls, many lies, but a total of zero arguments to defend the amendment to the totality that they are going to lose today. [[Applauds]] If they had a little respect for this Parliament and its own parliamentary group, which today defends exactly the opposite of what it advocated in 2019, they would withdraw their amendment. I'll tell you what I think happened. I think you're being ideologically devoured by the far right. You have never been enthusiastic about democracy or progress in rights, much less feminist rights, but now you can't hide, you can't even profile yourself because, in the face of the unstoppable advancement of feminism as a country project that effectively responds to the main problems of society, the reactionary powers among which you find yourselves need to put all the meat in the assador to try to stop the advancement of those feminist rights which are - you know - the best and most powerful tool that we Democrats have so that everyone lives with dignity and so that you don't govern and set in motion a project of authoritarian country and the suffering of the social majority. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that you are here today to defend a country with fewer rights? Ladies and gentlemen of the right, we are more of those who look at them from the front with great serenity, but also with great strength, and we say no to them, no to them. In this country we are more who want the state to recognize, at once, trans lives, LGBT lives. What do you offer with this amendment to trans people and LGBT people? That they live hidden, that they live in fear, that the State does not guarantee their rights? Do you know that 48% of LGBT people in this country still do not dare to go hand in hand with their partner by what streets of our cities? Are we going to tell you to wait, that your rights don't matter to this House? Ladies and gentlemen, the right to be is the most material of all rights. It is so important for a person to be able to fill the fridge and have a decent salary like going out with his friends to a bar without being killed by a fag or being able to filialize his sons and daughters without the obligation to be married. You, lords of the right, defend a way of life in which many people suffer, in which many people have enormous difficulties in being happy. They defend a way of living in society that is the salvation of those who can, insolidary, profoundly unequal and unjust. Many times when you oppose the recognition of a right, as today, you argue that in a society it is successful the person who strives, the one who is worth it, the one who deserves it and that the majority, who do not arrive, have not been smart enough, have not been hard enough. In this way, they naturalize the privileges of a few, as if it were a divine state or a natural phenomenon that cannot be questioned, and they understand rights as an act of charity for the losers. But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that we live in an unequal society, where a few privileged people inherit and increase their privileges, regardless of how little they strive and where the social majority, however hard it is, encounters enormous difficulties in developing their life plan. Ladies and gentlemen, rights are the basis of a just life in society, rights are the basis of democracy. If there are people who do not have all their rights recognized or who cannot effectively access those rights, what determines their success or failure is not how much or how little efforts are made, but the greatest barriers they face to develop their life projects. Rights are the basis of democracy because only when all people have their rights guaranteed can they develop their lives on the basis of effort, free decisions or merit, which they so much like to talk about. You defend a society of privileges for a few at the expense of the suffering of the majority, and therefore guaranteeing rights is the best way to continue to win, that this country is not subjected to the harmful consequences that you would have to govern. And don't hesitate, that's going to make this House, more rights to live better, more rights so that everyone can develop their life projects and more rights so that the right - politics, the media and the judiciary - doesn't put our democracy at risk. The debate that we are having here, as I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, is not whether or not there will be trans law because we will end this year 2022 with this approved law. You have the lost debate before we begin, ladies and gentlemen. The question we have an obligation to ask ourselves is whether we are prepared for the parliamentary debate on the trans law and the LGBT rights to be a debate free of transphobia and LGBT-phobia. Ladies and gentlemen, I am once again seeking the complicity and shared work of the feminist majority in this House to ask you to live up to the trans community and the LGBTI community. Let us discuss this law from beginning to end, let us think together, let us express differences and possibilities for improvement, but let us not give in to a millimeter to reactionaries and transphobia, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not leave a single door open to hate speech and to the utterance of the bubbles. We owe it, ladies and gentlemen, to trans people, we owe it to LGBTI people and we owe it to our democracy. In 2019, the Ministry of the Interior collected 278 hate crimes for sexual orientation or gender identity. In 2021, 466. The hate crimes of LGBTI-phobia or transphobia are, together with the racial ones, the ones that increase the most and in percentage terms, by contrast, the ones that grow the most, 67 %. We have an obligation as an executive and you as a legislative power not to legitimize the hate speech that is at the root of these crimes. We have an obligation to have a debate that respects human rights and is free from hatred and transphobia. I would like to stress that this law comes to guarantee fundamental rights, ladies and gentlemen, as recognized by the Constitutional Court. Our Constitution contains in article 10 on the dignity of the person... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u4	Thank you, President. Our Constitution - I told you - contains in article 10, on the dignity of the person, the right to the free development of personality, and in article 14 the right to equality. Self-determination of gender identity forms part of these rights and forms an essential part of the right to the free development of personality, the right to life and the right to be free from discrimination. Currently, trans people, to be recognized by the State, have to face two years of compulsory hormones and a medical process that certifies and says they are sick. Ladies and gentlemen, trans people urgently need the state to recognize who they are, without the obligation to be hormonal and, of course, without considering that being trans is a disease. In order to guarantee their right to health and life, it is trans people who must decide whether or not they are hormonal. If they decide to become hormonal, they must have the most specialized medical accompaniment and, if they decide not to do so, they must also have respect for and recognition of their identity by the State and the institutions. This law also guarantees a present of more rights for LGBT people: we prohibit conversion therapies, we guarantee the right of lesbians to join their creatures without the obligation to be married, we guarantee access to assisted reproduction techniques, we develop anti-discrimination law to ensure that a LGBT person can rent a flat or access a job without being discriminated against by their sexual orientation or gender identity, and that if such discrimination occurs, they do not go unpunished. This law also speaks of sex education to celebrate diversity, so that all children and adolescents in our country know that being a LGBTI person is normal, that they do not have to ask for forgiveness, that they feel guilt, that they have fear, that they have the right to be who they are, that their lives are worth living and that they have the right to live it. Ladies and gentlemen, all boys and girls and 'children' have the right to know this, they have the right to know it by the sons and daughters of the feminist majority of this country and, in particular, they have the right to know it by the sons and daughters of transphobic or LGBTI-phobic families. Children and 'children' have the right to be happy and to know that they can be those who are without discrimination or feeling ashamed or guilty. [[Applauds]] Who was going to tell the LGBTI community, the trans people - who were first persecuted, imprisoned, expelled to the margins of our society and who were then for many years invisible to the institutions, who have fought for the recognition of their rights, who have so many times been at the forefront of democratic struggles and conquests - who were going to tell their families - that without any support they organized and cared to defend the happiness of their loved ones - who were going to tell all of them that now, with this coalition government and with this feminist Congress, the Official State Gazette will also be their ally. This law is also to recognize that the State has obligations to all of you. We tell trans people and LGBT people that we will no longer wait to start fulfilling those obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a country that celebrates and recognizes the right to sexual diversity. We are a country that recognizes and grows in that diversity. According to a FRA survey, Spain is the country in which more LGBT people, 60%, respond that there has always or often been a partner in the work that has supported and defended them or protected them if they have been discriminated against. The same is true in schools, in Spain half of those surveyed between the ages of fifteen and seventeen say that in school someone always supported them or defended them. We are already that country and now it is up to us from the institutions. I would like to end by thanking all the people you have made possible and you will make it possible for the trans and LGBT rights law to be law, the LGBT organizations and activists, the trans people's organizations and their families, those who have put the body before and those who follow it putting it today to defend the rights of 'all'. [[Direct your words to the guest gallery]] This Government thanks you, this Government recognizes your suffering, that of your families and that of your loved ones and becomes responsible by legislating so that the discriminations that still continue to cause so much pain can be brought to an end as soon as possible. We also thank you for not abandoning the struggle, for turning your pain into resistance and joyful rebellion, for giving up to society - which has discriminated against you and damaged you - so much pride. How many times did they tell us that it was not worth fighting this trans law, that it would not go forward. Together we are able to make what we were told was impossible possible. The right wants a country full of closets, of loneliness, of secrecy. They're less, we're winning them. She said the trans activist Sylvia Rivera who hoped to see how LGBTBI people were treated with the respect they deserved before they died, and added: 'I want to go wherever I am in harmony with my soul and quietly say that I have finally won'. To all trans women, to all LGBT lives, congratulations, because you have won. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Two amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mrs Toscano de Balbín. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u6	With the venom. Chesterton claimed that one day a sword would have to be raised to say that the grass is green. That day has come with this trans law that we are dealing with today; a law that forces us to turn our backs on reality and will penalize those who refuse to do so. This law, whose contents must be remembered that they are already in autonomous laws promulgated by the People's Party - for example, in the law of the Community of Madrid - imposes a single vision of the world: that of gender ideology; a vision without any scientific backing for which sexual identity is a subjective experience independent of biological sex. They put, of course, their favorite ghost, the concept of gender as a social construct and, therefore, modifying the will, and subordinated to the wishes of the individual. It is a foolish proposal, but I understand that tempting - remembers that 'you will be as gods' of Genesis - because it puts in our hands a reality that we believed to be immutable and creates with it a false illusion of freedom. But true freedom is not built from behind to reality, but by looking at it face to face. Freedom is built with truth, and the truth is that you want to build a world based on desires and self-perceptions, completely away from reality. [[applause]] They miserably use the tragedy of intersex people, of people who do not identify with their biological sex, of adolescents who suffer from gender dysphoria to pass the trans apisonadora and impose it on society. The cases of these people are tragic and what we must do is support them and accompany them. [[Applauds]] Our society is able to offer respect and protection to intersex people, transsexual people and adolescents with gender dysphoria, but this support cannot be from an ideological perspective, it has to be from a medical, scientific and, above all, truly human perspective. [[Applauds]] This minimum number of cases does not justify what this law seeks. The truth is that this law seeks to promote transsexuality under the pretext of avoiding discrimination. To encourage her, for what? Wouldn't it be wiser to promote a family model open to life, given the demographic winter we are experiencing in Spain? [[Applauds]] But no, your social engineering work needs broken children and adults, no identity, because they want us slaves. This law includes studies, surveys, a council of participation of LGBTI people, campaigns, badges to companies for the promotion of transsexuality, measures of positive discrimination at work... What does this have to do with avoiding discrimination? By the way, it is already penalized in our legal system and, in addition, all LGBT people in Spain have the same rights as the rest, as it has to be. [[applause]] It's not about avoiding discrimination, it's about getting degenerate ideology into our veins and creating privileges. Privileges go to the extreme that if a trans person denounces someone because they feel discriminated against, the burden of proof is reversed and it will be the person who will have to prove, it is not well known how, that does not discriminate. Within this wild promotion, we come to the most intolerable point of this law: children. Minister of Equality, you as a good totalitarian want to educate our children sexually. You have spoken in favour of the corruption of minors, you have spoken in favour of sex between minors and that of minors with adults. [[Rumors]] If it wasn't true, he could have retracted, had many days to do so and didn't want to. What you've done has been to blame the far right. [[Applauds]] He missed Franco and Putin. But even by obviating these scandalous statements, which in a normal country would have made him resign, the Spaniards are not willing to sexually adopt our children. He's going to meet many Spaniards full of legitimate concern, like that overwhelming majority of parents we want our children madly, regardless of ideology. You are no one to question it, Mrs Montero, nor to presume otherwise, because those parents are concerned that our children are engaged in a war against their own bodies for life and without going back and because we are concerned that they are sterile adults and chronic drugs. Mrs. Montero, we don't want them to experiment with their bodies, we don't want them to talk about masturbation, we don't want them to doubt if they're boys and girls, we don't want them to educate them differently from our beliefs. To say this is not to be retrograde or fascist or ancient, it is to love our children and to ensure their purity and innocence. [[Applauds]] Here we come to the bloodiest point of the law: the change of sex of children for registered purposes. A change of sex that will be possible since the age of twelve and, in solitary, at sixteen, counting - we are told - with the maturity and stability of the minor, as if maturity, stability and lesser were not an oxymoron. These children who suffer from gender dysphoria are usually male, about 0.015%, and are usually male because in many cases during pregnancy, when they were in their mother's womb, they had a testosterone deficiency that is then regulated in adolescence in a natural way. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u8	What is happening now is that, based on propaganda and laws like this, there is more and more dysphoria in adolescents and girls. In the United Kingdom the number has increased by 4400 % over the last ten years and in Sweden by 1500 %. Let's be serious, dysphoria doesn't multiply because it does. This is not a physiological dysphoria, it is a cultural dysphoria, because they are children with problems who end up being victims of their indoctrination. [[Applauds]] The registrar change is only the first case, before social change, hormonal change and then surgical change or, in other words, irreversible mutilation. It should not be forgotten that this chain of brutal changes begins with a self-diagnosis. I don't want to trivialize, but for you to understand the example, it's as if a person goes to a psychiatrist self-defining as a schizophrenic and the psychiatrist is obliged to treat him and medicate him as a schizophrenic. [[Applauds]] The State cannot prevail over parents and force them to unprotect their children in a vital phase of change and particular vulnerability. The State cannot handcuff parents to the decisions of their minor children when they are not mature enough. Gentlemen of the Government, get your dirty hands off our children. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mrs. Montero, a lot of trans law, a lot of self-perception, a lot of everyone, all and 'everything'- that we all seem Asturian - but when you were pregnant with your daughter she announced to the world that she was a child. Why? For his genitals. [[Applauds]] And with regard to adults, to legislate according to desires or self-perceptions degenerates into legal frauds and ridiculous, absurd and even dangerous situations. Let's see men who will have access to women's privacy spaces, like bathrooms, showers, and women won't be able to do anything to avoid it. We will see men fraudulently using this law to compete in sports with physical advantages over women, with the prejudices and injustices that this will cause in sport. [[Applauds]] Also, following absurdity, why do we focus only on self-perception of sex? If what matters is how everyone feels, why do we not legislate on self-perception of age, nationality, marital status or employment status? Can you imagine a world where everyone is forced to treat us like we feel? Posts to legislate on self-perceptions and unrealities, why only about sex? This law discriminates against people who may feel like a platypus or Lady Gaga. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]] But VOX, as always, does not hurt us to reaffirm our commitment to common sense, to the family, to children and, above all, to the truth, in spite of whoever weighs it, no matter how much it criminalizes us and distorts our discourse. They may tear down one or two generations of Spaniards, perhaps their poison will spread more, but be clear that they will have us face up to defending first of all the right of parents to educate their children according to their convictions and defending the sovereign and heroic role of the family in front of the State. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day of shouting: grass is green, boys have penis and girls vagina, sex is binary, biology is real, gender ideology is cancer. This is the most totalitarian and destructive government of our democracy and VOX is the only party that defends and will defend good, truth and beauty. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u10	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, parents of AMANDA, and representatives of other associations who accompany us, good morning. When has the PP withdrawn its support for the trans collective, yesterday asked in an immeasurable appearance the Secretary of State for Equality. And what about your intervention, minister! The People's Party has not at any time withdrawn support for LGBTI people, transsexuals, trans, because we believe with conviction - not like you - in articles 10 and 14 of our Constitution, one before and one after in the respect, defense and guarantee of the fundamental rights of the person. Nor now, because we are convinced that they expect and need laws - quality and not quantity, ladies and gentlemen - other laws. We believe, on the contrary, that our position is to draw attention to projects such as the one we are now amending, which seriously breaks the principle of equality, is interventionist and ideologically imposes a discourse that many people reject. We're with women, with mothers, with men, whatever their sexual orientation. We are opposed to the deletion of women, mothers and parents, involving in modern terminology irresponsible actions that endanger the rights of individuals, especially minors. The People's Group believes that the standards that develop the essential rights of all people, without toast to the sun and with the necessary guarantees, should be protected and improved by choosing the instruments that will enable any act of hatred, violence, harassment, xenophobia, persecution against any person, to be felt, to be loved, to be doubted, whatever their identity. But, Minister, this project is not the way, and it is not the PP alone who considers this not the way. Many left-wing feminists, many socialists, cry out why the road that was so hard to conquer is wrong. And I am addressing especially the women of the socialist bench, who were occupied and followed us with attention, who until now were their voters and who are amazed that they have not been able to stop this project. We sympathize with you, those who want to purge - very strong word for 2022-. [[shows a press clipping]] That's not the way either. Madam Minister, when you are being asked for an essential and serious debate - you said you want to debate, because you are not in possession of the truth and neither are we - you only know how to scream. But in these matters one must remain very calm, show great sensitivity, put oneself in the place of the other and recognize that no one is in possession of the only truth. [[Applauds]] When steps are to be taken that attack frontally the pillars of human rights it is appropriate to be very humble, to study much, to recognize that in the area of the dignity of the person it is not more democratic that creates more vericouetos than in reality they seek to impose a thought that nullifies the freedom and values of a very important part of Western culture. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary have strongly warned, this is a project that, with excessive claims of comprehensive law, after another comprehensive law, generates contradictions, legal uncertainty, cuts in consolidated rights, which negatively affects fundamental rights and freedoms, which limits the ability of individuals to act, and all this without being organic law. Ladies and gentlemen, do not trust the arguments, do not be dazzled by the manna of budgets and read this bill to the last line. You will see with astonishment how, if approved, every six months a person since the age of twelve can without justification change the sex register. They will also see that business and trade union organisations will from now on have legitimacy in the civil sphere regarding the most intimate rights of the person. They do, however, remove from persons with disabilities the legitimacy for which they have fought so much in article 137 of the Civil Code, recently reformed by Law 8/2021, to challenge paternity. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen! Join me, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party! [[Applauds]] We are concerned about many things, but especially the treatment of minors. There is no need, Minister, to amend articles that we have amended over and over again this legislature to add the reference'minor person'. That is because they have not bothered to read two beautiful articles of the Civil Code: 'Birth determines personality - article 29-; Personality is acquired at the time of birth alive, once the entire detachment of the mother's womb - article 30-'. And don't hide behind the alleged defense of the child's best interest to leave our children at the dawn of the ghosts of their inner struggle when adolescence arrives, at a time when uncontrolled and uncontrollable pressure from social networks enters their minds and alters their entire world. You're a mother, so am I. I appeal to the mothers who are here or who follow us, those whom we have conceived, those who have not conceived and adopted, with the sexual orientation they have. We all know that there is no greater powerlessness than seeing that the person you love most - and for whom you would give everything, even change for her so that she does not suffer - is dominated by her own despair, when you ask who she is, what she does here, why she has to live with that body she does not like, why they reject her, and resort, for example, to the Blue Whale. The best interest of the child is not to allow everything, for everyone and at any time, minister, nor is it to hand over control of any of the decisions of the State, to listen to them much, to accompany them, to remain silent if they do not want to listen to your opinion and give it to them when they ask you, to err and to apologize for their welfare, to admit also that they are wrong and that they will tell you one day why you did not help them and even why you did not stop them from being hooked on online gambling, gambling, drugs or a tattoo. [[Applauds]] Imagine how much suffering there is, truly, sincere, in those from an early age who do not recognize their identity in their bodies and how impotence in their families, in case they will not do the right thing. Of course, we have to provide legal instruments that do not add any more suffering, forcefully curb harassment, educate in respect for all, but they must be legal instruments that allow rest, professional advice, the accompaniment of the child, the adolescent, the minor, and who better than their parents. Mrs Montero, when you had not yet been born, in the newly-released constitutional and democratic Spain, major civil reforms were launched in the area of filiation and parental authority. To many generations - colleagues and I - we taught in the faculties of law that which did not always sound good in their families, and that is that we had broken and abandoned forever the old concept of the right of parents regarding their children, to incorporate the conception of duty-function. It was a leap of modernity linked to the rights of the child, to our commitment to international declarations of rights. That's generosity, Minister. I wish we could invent less and exploit more what this conception of parental authority implies to understand the best interests of the child. [[Applauds]] Why are they trying to confuse depathology with the absence of advice from healthcare professionals? We are clear that there is and must be full compatibility. This law dissociates the registrar correction of sex from any medical or surgical process; well, on paper. That too has explanations. I do not have time to enter them, but I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, they are not innocent. Do you think it is an advance that we turn the Civil Registry into the office of receiving wishes, of regrets, but with legal effects that could change every six months? Forgive me, but this is not like going to change the console model or the mobile model. This is very serious. [[Applauds]] Why is it better for the rights of transgender people than a person under the age of twelve to seven, even an adult, can go to the Civil Registry to rectify sex without any justification for manifestation of will, without medical or psychological reports, for example, or from other professionals? This is not peaceful at the international level. There is no mandate to that effect from the European Court of Human Rights or from our Constitutional Court, although the contrary could be deduced in the draft, if any uninformed reader approaches it. Do you know, Minister, how much has it cost to incorporate multidisciplinary teams into the courts, and how much is needed for judges to resolve family, minor or disability issues? Because the problems that arise are very complex. Have you ever attended hearings in juvenile courts? I recommend that you spend a day in Emilio Calatayud's court in Granada, I think that, if you do, you will stop talking so much about judicial harassment or distrust less doctors and psychologists. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, families have told us these years about their dramas with children with gender dysphoria, that we have to attend to and make little mistake in the solutions. Today, along with these cases, they are torn apart by another growing problem that they already see clearly in other countries: the need for rest and advice so that children do not make hasty and irreversible decisions. They grow at an exponential rate, ladies and gentlemen, all over the world, the dramas of minors who repent after having been medicated or intervened at very early ages. I know you're going to tell me that the law doesn't come into that, but it's not true; it puts parents and professionals under suspicion. What do we have to do, leave our kids to their luck? It's hard enough being a father and a mother. But in this of forbidding and limiting they are not cut off. That is why, even when they ban conversion therapies, they then say: the elderly will not be able even if they want to. That is, a limitation of capacity that no one had dared to do in democracy, because we are removing it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u11	Mrs. Moro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u12	I'm done, President. Think seriously and listen. This project catapults us to the regression of freedoms. I finish as I started, we are with equality, non-discrimination, the protection of the most vulnerable. They will not be advocates of equality if inequalities multiply by confronting one another, people versus collectives. As a woman, as a mother, after having fought so much, much less than others, I have to ask you, minister, to listen to us, to talk low, to break this text and start working in the law with the guarantees that so many of our people ask of us. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a greeting to organizations that defend the rights of trans and LGTB people. Egun where you're going. During this legislature, on several occasions, the situation of LGBTI people has been discussed and the need for legislation to guarantee the rights of transgender people; a collective that has suffered throughout history and is currently suffering various forms of discrimination in the different areas in which they develop their vital projects: education, health care, work, leisure and family What little empathy is that of all those people who say that this is all a lie, what little empathy. Today, as a further step in the parliamentary process, we are faced with two amendments to the whole of the right and the right, both in the same spirit, to put obstacles in the way of advancing rights, to solve the current situation and to amend the existing debt. During these months, we are witnessing strongly ideological debates which, instead of providing light and concrete expression in the recognition of the rights of transgender people, are posing a serious obstacle to knowing and respecting diversity; diversity in capitals, ladies and gentlemen, diversity of ways of being, of living, of expressing oneself as women and men, beyond binary approaches and taking into account the intersexuality that dwells in all of us. He said in May 2021 in this very House that we were witnessing an opaque debate, directed and instrumentalized by the right in favour of political interests, both of the extreme right and of certain sectors that call themselves left-wing and feminists, and that, instead of advancing equality and respect, they seek to perpetuate discrimination. And after a little over a year I keep repeating the same thing. Both are questioning the rights of collectives who only ask to be able to live on equal terms, like all others. In these amendments, the lack of scientific evidence and empirical basis is used as a recurring argument against this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the right and the extreme right, you who are working to prevent trans people from having rights and these are respected, I encourage you to go to sexology as a sex science in interaction. They will find in it answers and the common sense that is lacking in all this debate that is taking place in society. Or does sexology have less weight than medicine? Or are there first-rate science and second-rate science, as in times when it's best not to remember? Make it very clear that identity cannot be imposed. Transsexual women do not choose to be women, they know they are; transsexual men do not choose to be men, they know they are. Just like those people who aren't transgender, just like that. They must therefore have their rights recognized as the rest, the same. And so, after overcoming this process and moving forward in the debate on the amendments to the article, we hope that sooner or later this law will see the light, because we cannot talk about respect, rights and freedom for trans people and are blocking once and for all the creation of a law for trans people. Because nobody, I repeat, nobody in this House is going to tell trans people who they are or who they are not. Nobody's gonna tell them who they can be or who they should be. We cannot deny that transphobia exists in small details of the day and in our hands is putting the legal framework that helps to overcome it. Because increasing the rights of a discriminated group is a basic question of justice and in no case reduces the rights of the rest, as some and some try to transfer to the citizenry; on the contrary, it makes us all more free. It is time to put an end to the dilation of the process of law-making, to question aspects already overcome years ago in autonomous laws and other states in our environment. Navarra in 2017 passed the Outlaw on Social Equality of Lesbians, Gais, Transexuals and Transgender, Bisexuals and Intersexuals, which also covers the aspects that the most litigation is generating the current law we are dealing with. At that time, Navarra society showed civicism and respect for the rights of these people without any social conflict. At the moment, the Basque Autonomous Community is processing the second amendment of its own law along the same lines, and already assumes self-determination and depathology as general principles. So, a state law why is it generating so much conflict? Who benefits from all this noise? Much remains to be done to make trans people live better, freer, closer to good living; because, in the end, that is what it is all about, that we all - regardless of our sexual status - live with rights, without being questioned, without being discriminated against or attacked. How hard is it to understand this? And let us not forget - as we have already repeated as active and passive - that early sexual education for all students, as well as for society at large, will help in this process of real recognition of diversity, of the rights of all people and in overcoming the homophobia and transphobia that this society suffers in the 21st century. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, good morning to all and everyone, to the guests and guests who have come from associations and collectives of the world LGTB and from families of trans people. Welcome and welcome everyone. I begin my speech by announcing that we will vote against the amendments tabled by the People's and VOX parliamentary groups. And we will do so because it is duty and obligation to meet the historical demand that the public authorities and we, as legislators, have with LGBTI people and with transgender people in particular; people who have lived and suffered a situation of injustice, discrimination and enormous vulnerability. The Basque Nationalist Party has a political commitment to transgender and transgender people and their most representative associations. We also have to say that for us this is a law that adds rights and does not stand up against anyone, but in favour of people. It does not remain, but adds; it does not divide, despite what some people or collectives say and intends to multiply. We must also thank the associations working in the field of the rights of trans persons, associations of families of trans minors, because the law promotes strengthened and collaborative governance by establishing that they must be involved in the development of the implementation of the law, as in its implementation. Therefore, I will talk more about the need for a law than its denial, which is what the People's Party and VOX do. Equality of all persons was one of the fundamental pillars of human rights, and democratic systems were not limited only to formal recognition, but included constitutional formulas to give effect to the basic principle of equality, which was the driving force. According to the Yogyakarta Principles of 2007, gender identity refers to the internal and individual experience of gender, as each person feels deeply; which may or may not correspond to the gender assigned at the time of birth, including the personal experience of the body. The law submitted by the Government has three objectives: firstly, to guarantee and promote the right to real and effective equality of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersex persons and their families; secondly, to establish the principles of public action, regulating the rights and duties of natural and legal persons - both public and private - and providing for specific measures for the prevention, correction, elimination in the public and private spheres of all forms of discrimination; and thirdly, to regulate the procedure and requirements for the registration of gender and, where appropriate, the names of persons, providing for specific measures derived from such rectification in the public and private spheres. Listening to the interventions of the two formations that have tabled amendment to the whole, I would tell the deputy of VOX, when she says that this law aims to promote transsexuality, which explains what it is to promote transsexuality. I mean, if so too, is it wrong to promote transsexuality? I'm asking. That is, from their perspective, if this law seeks to promote transsexuality, they consider transsexuality to be bad. Therefore, say it: they do not think that something that is bad should be encouraged. Tell people, families with transgender children, that's bad. [[Applauds]] To the deputy of the People's Party, who has done a legal, but also sociological, reflection, I understand by her words that she has only spoken of the tearing up of the families of the people who suffer from that. So, deep down, there's a pathological view that that's a suffering. I know families of transgender people who live with great happiness the situation their children have. There may be people who have suffered because of that, because of their identity problems - we all know them - but many others live it with much joy and happiness, it is not always a problem, as you are raising. From the competitive approach - now I have certain criticisms to make to this law - the draft confers a relevant and decisive significance on Article 149.1.1a of the Constitution, on which it is based in order to intervene in the application of the other competition titles cited in the final provision 19 of the norm. Many autonomous communities already have important competences that the project seeks to safeguard. In Euskadi - they have quoted it - we are already in the second phase of the law, and I think we are doing very well. I believe that the project is somewhat remiss in reflecting the important role played by the Autonomous Communities in this area. We can say that in the Basque Country the situation of the LGBT collective, in general, and of trans people, in particular, has evolved favourably in recent years and that the struggle of previous generations and the normative and political measures adopted have been bearing fruit. However, we can also say that there is still much to be done. The debate on gender self-regulation in Euskadi has already taken place with the 2012 Law on Non-Discrimination on the grounds of Gender Identity and Recognition of Transgender Persons. It is a debate that we have already overcome, I do not know why it is creating so many problems. How are we not going to defend the right of self-determination of the people who defend the right of self-determination of the peoples, it would be more lacking! We have to ask ourselves whether the society we want is a society that leaves no one behind, that leaves no one behind. We live at a time when the protection and promotion of human rights tread a very slippery soil and, therefore, it is even more important to generate a positive discourse on diversity. Finally, I would like to say to those who tear their clothes so that people who want to be what they feel no one imposes anything, that their identity is not an aggression against anyone and that the future we build with tolerance, with acceptance and, above all, with empathy and not with incendiary positions, which in the background seek to remove rights, and that is not the way. The confrontation won't lead us to anything. For this reason, and being consistent with the principles that we have always defended and consistent with laws that we ourselves have adopted, we will continue to work for laws like this to move forward, with objections, with amendments, but that will be later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have one of the first of many important debates that we are going to hold over the coming months on a subject that is key to our democracy: the freedom and equal rights of citizens, namely of LGBT people and trans people. [[The lady]] Citizens were born as a party deeply committed to individual freedoms, equal opportunities and progress in social rights. This commitment has been translated from the beginning of our political action into a ferocious defence of the rights and freedoms of LGBTI and trans people. There are a number of elements that I would like to make clear in this regard. We have defended and worked for the depathology of LGBTI people and trans people, for the prohibition of conversion therapies and for the recognition of their self-determination. But, above all, we must make it clear to other parties in this House, to a part of the Socialist Party and to the People's Party, that trans women do not erase one woman; trans women are women and deserve their defence on equal terms with the rest. I think it is important to take into account the reality that such a legal framework needs to address. What is the situation of LGBTI and trans people right now? Because in the face of certain messages - advertising and slogans - I always say that it is a pity that they are on the issue of equality, because then it turns out that we forget what we are here for, ladies and gentlemen. Look, 80% of trans people are unemployed, 40% of them hide their identity at work and homophobic harassment is experienced by young people in classrooms and in their daily lives. According to the latest FELGTB study, 49% of young people surveyed up to the age of 25 have experienced homophobic harassment. And how do these children and young people feel? Sadness, humiliation, impotence, misunderstanding and isolation. In fact, 43% of them had suicidal ideas, ladies and gentlemen. According to data from the Ministry of the Interior on hate crimes, 20.7% of recorded crimes are in this area, as has been said here. So let's see if we focus the debate a little bit and legislate for what needs to be legislated, which is for progress on equal terms in a responsible and guaranteed way, please. This is what I would really ask of the whole House. Furthermore, today we do not vote on this law, and what we vote on are the amendments to the whole of it tabled by the People's Party and VOX. I must say that VOX's speech - I have no other way of saying it - has seemed totally disgusting to me. [[Applauds]] As far as the People's Party's speech is concerned, I do not understand why some women think they erase others; I find it archaic in terms of equality and feminism. On the other hand, I believe that a message against diversity is being sent. The conservative forces do not want there to be a law LGTBI and trans. In addition, I am very surprised that the PP mentions in its documentation equal marriage as an advance in the exercise of rights, because curiously you have appealed to the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] The truth is that it is incoherent, ladies and gentlemen, that even in your own text you should put what you have resorted to. Legislation to extend freedoms will not diminish the freedom of anyone. Legislation that aims to ensure that each individual can live his or her citizenship as he or she sees it is not an affront to freedom, but a defence in itself. [[Rumors]] Here we are, exactly that is the way of Citizens: the defense of freedom as one of the pillars of our rule of law. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u19	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u20	With its amendments to the whole, they do no favours of diverse construction or social cohesion in any way. Does this mean, however, that the bill submitted by the Government is the ideal model? Well, unfortunately, it is not, ladies and gentlemen. Liberals have carefully analysed this text, because our commitment to LGBTI and trans people deserves it. The feeling we have is that you miss a great opportunity. Look, the government has brought to this House a law that has three original sins. It is a short-lived law to ensure effective equality. It leaves unresolved issues, especially with regard to minors, which is unacceptable to trans people and their families. Its formal handling has not been commensurate with the substance of the matter: urgent procedures and does not incorporate the necessary mandatory reports. For liberals, for citizens, the Ministry of Equality has clearly failed in its work. It has raised this legal framework as one of its advertising flags, as a bold weapon with its government partner, for we are aware that there is a part of the Socialist Party that trans women do not regard as women. It is a discriminatory and very unfeministic position, taking into account the situation of vulnerability experienced by trans women. This is a rule that should not be processed quickly and running, through an urgent procedure, as it needs expert appearances and must have all the mandatory reports. Such a complex reality that directly affects people's lives and development cannot be dealt with through the urgency procedure; that is irresponsible. With these kinds of approaches, what we transfer to society are not agreements, awareness or the will that such a profound issue does not create any kind of insecurity, but quite the contrary. What we are bringing to society is confrontation and insecurity, and so equality and cohesion are not promoted. Citizens have been an example in both Andalusia and Madrid of pioneering legislation in the field of equality and the defence of rights. In fact, we have imposed the first sanctions for discriminatory conduct. Citizens are not going to support the amendments as a whole, but they are going to enrich and work professionally so that this bill does not have loopholes, does not create legal insecurity and does not leave gaps, because, in the end, they will harm society as a whole. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u22	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u23	Excuse me, Mr. Rego. Please, I beg your silence. It is impossible to maintain the concentration on the part of the person in the gallery. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u24	Today we are not here to decide whether we are in agreement with the entire draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons, which the Government is presenting, but to decide whether we support the return amendments tabled by the ultra-right and the ultra-right, PP and VOX, who are always more concerned about curtailing rights than about expanding them and about a constant obsession with social backwardness. I am already advancing the vote against the BNG to these amendments, supported by very strong arguments, despite the fact that we are critical of the bill presented, but with the conviction that there are steps that must necessarily be taken and that the Galego Nationalist Block has historically been flagging in Galicia, not only with the 1999 parliamentary initiative, but also actively supporting the ILP registered in 2017 in the Galician Parliament, or also participating in all the mobilizations that claimed rights for trans and LGTBI people. Among these essential steps is, logically, depathologization, a priority marked by the collectives for more than a decade, because the process that the 2007 law establishes implies violence against trans people. They are themselves and no doctors or officials are the only ones to decide. It is ironic or rather cynical that PP and VOX seek to defend their opposition to the recognition of rights for trans people in women's rights, because it is precisely the forces that relegate or directly combat real equality policies. On the contrary - I conclude - the BNG is convinced that winning new rights for those who today suffer violence and discrimination strengthens and strengthens the rights of all. We will vote against these amendments and introduce partial amendments to improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u25	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u26	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to welcome the minister and the people of platforms and entities who are accompanying us today in this debate of amendments to the whole. I have only two minutes, so I am not going to be distracted by the reasons that lead us to support and accompany this initiative which comes to defend, as has already been said here, the rights of individuals and collectives, without removing any rights, but I am going to focus on the two amendments which are all presented here today and which advanced that we are going to vote against. Mrs Toscano in her speech said what really is the root, the genesis of her whole theory: do you imagine a world in which everyone should be treated as they feel? Mrs. Toscano, it is that the alternative to that world is a world in which people are treated as they do not feel or as others want. So, if you allow us to choose, I will choose the second model, which is the one you fight. There is the difference between you and me, because, and that is said to be unanticommunist, although Mrs Moro's party is committed to saying that the opposite of freedom is socialism, the opposite of freedom is authoritarianism and totalitarianism that defends your party. That's where we're going to meet, and we're going to fight against that. Mrs Moro said - she moved on to the other amendment - when did the People's Party fail the LGBT collective? Man, Mrs. Moro, equal recourse to the Constitution on equal marriage was a gesture of goodwill misunderstood by society. [[Applauds]] They may have missed communicating it a little better. But, Mrs. Moro, I'm just telling you one thing. I do not wish, because I value you as a parliamentarian, that Members who are on that bench in the years to come and see your speech as you see today your party's speeches on abortion, divorce and equal marriage, because I believe that some of you feel ashamed of your party's speeches at this time and will feel the same in a few years' time. We are going to vote against your amendment, because we do not share your speech or your meaning. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the same group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u28	Thank you, president, minister, companies. The PP makes a comprehensive review of the consideration that the different international conventions and European and State laws make regarding human dignity, including the definition of the Criminal Code. 'The respect it deserves and the value it must be given to any human being for the mere fact of being so. It is an inherent quality, which is recognized and protected, but which is not granted, and which conforms as the budget that enables the free development of personality.' Paradoxically, they are clearly opposed to the gender self-determination proposed by the law. That is, you prefer those who feel trapped in an identity that does not represent you, who do not feel you, who still need a diagnosis of gender dysphoria or who undergo two years of hard hormonal treatment. They want the walls to continue to be erected for those who need to self-determine for dignity and respect for the right to free development of personality, including the sexual sphere. The situation of trans people is very complex and also very discriminatory, and resolving it will generate controversy. You are already in charge of legislation on gender-based violence, competition in sport or in relation to living spaces. But where there can be no contradiction, it is in the defence of their right to non-discrimination. So, instead of supporting those walls in their entirety, help us to tear them down for the greater good of freedom to be, as Catalonia did, whose Parliament amended the Catalan law on gender-based violence two years ago to extend protection to trans companies. On the amendment to the whole of VOX, it is best to quote some phrases and respond with data. According to you, for several decades now there has been immense sexual freedom and perfect equality of rights between homosexual or transgender people and those who are not, that is what exists. They also say that Marxism needs to invent false injustices and imaginary conflicts. Now let's go to the data. 86.6% of the LGBT community in Spain hides their sexual orientation and gender identity in work interviews. The highest unemployment rate is found in the transgender group, where it reaches 80%, according to UGT data. For you, humanity is made up of creatures divided between males and females. But that biological vision of man as a superior animal cannot deny the human being himself... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u30	... The main factor of superiority: the ability to be conscious and to be able to express and develop personality freely. And, for reasons, they set Iran as an example - you are always so sensitive - when you say that the cultural and legal promotion of transsexuality makes us end up having transsexual women instead of homosexual men. And you add that that explains that a country like Iran, which punishes homosexuality even with death, grants maximum legal and medical facilities for sex change. Bringing Iran right now is insulting. Doing so to endorse your position that it is only permissible for sensed sex if accompanied by dysphoria and hormonal therapies is outrageous. We're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u32	Thank you very much, President. Sonia Rescalvo was killed by neo-Nazi hatred in the glory of the Ciudadela Park in Barcelona, but today we are here, another October 6th, thirty-one years later, exactly, rejecting two amendments to the whole, which come from the remorse of that Spain that persists in killing, whether physically or psychologically, trans people. They won't happen. [[Applauds]] We are very close to culminating the long and hard way trans people have gone to today, and for this it is urgent to pass the trans law, Minister. Many people within our parliamentary group, the Republican Group, have worked very hard for it and, therefore, if I may, I would like to thank Mrs Pilar Vallugera, also the technical adviser, the polytologist Claudia González, our dear Ramon Soldan and, of course, all the companions who are part of the LGTB coordinator of Republican Esquerra. [[Applauds]] I have just made the text I am reading, adding sentences and words with everything I have heard about the two amendments - obviously, we will vote no, not very blunt - and I have had two things at my head with what I have heard here from the right and the extreme right. The first is that on October 2nd we won the transphobia of the handbag and that on the 30th we will win again in Brazil the transphobia of the handbag. Because today, Minister Damares Alves has been present. I'm sure you remember what it said that boys dress blue and girls dress pink. Well, we won this woman. But I have also come to the head - if it can, it is more serious - for what we have heard here from the Spanish neo-ranquism, many parallels with the theories of the Nazi doctor Mengele - we know him very well, because he fled to Brazil - which strongly endorsed the doctrine of national socialist racial theory and his experiments aimed at illustrating the lack of resistance to various diseases of the Jewish people and of the Gypsy people. There are many parallels, for all that we have heard here, with those amendments. Unfortunately, today we have heard here, in this house, the proclamations of Le Pen, Meloni, Salvini, Orbán, Trump, Bolsonaro, etc. They laugh because they know it's true. The amendments we reject today are unrighteous, because the rights of trans people are human rights. I want to denounce - very important - a lie made ad hoc to create a wrong story. From this rostrum it is very important to rectify. They're e-mailing us. In fact, it's an anti-democratic formula, because we don't just carry the LGTBI law, the trans law, but every deputy carries a lot of laws, which are collapsing us with emails, they don't let us work, saying wrong things, to fill the heads of deputies and citizens. They say this law is being done in an obscurantist, fast-paced, urgent way. Lie. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the citizenry, enter the web of Congress right now you will see that today there are thirty-eight bills with full legislative competence through the urgent procedure. Stop trying to misrepresent it. This is a lie. To those people who send us those emails we tell them that Esquerra Republicana has always been with women, with all women, with all women, even if it weighs them and even if it is difficult for them to assume it, and even if it is also difficult for them to assume the values and principles of democracy. [[Applauds]] We're with all the women. A kiss to all trans people from the rostrum. And I say more. The best country is not the one that cuts rights, but the one that expands them for those who don't have them, and I don't say that, says the lady named Mar Cambrollé. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] Spreading that trans rights collide with other laws and erase women seems very perverse and grotesque to us and aims to intoxicate. There is no fight between feminism and trans women. There isn't. According to the report of hate crimes by the Ministry of the Interior, crimes against LGBTI people have increased by 67 per cent and there is an underreport of 80 per cent. Since 2019, Internet crimes against trans-barbarity have increased by 253%. The Republican Group says and says to them that it works and will work to improve the trans law including amendments to obtain rights for self-determination, for the legal and effective recognition of trans identities, without age limits, without medical or judicial guardianship, for non-binary identities, for the recognition with third box in DNI or the possibility of removing gender box. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] Transmigrants have the right to change the name in documents issued in Spain. We also want employment inclusion, tax incentives for private companies, entrepreneurship and trans labour quota. We will also work for the criminalization of conversion therapies and standards for the proper treatment of LGBTBI patients in medical practice, education, diversity and health care. There is an urgent need to adopt the Trans law to guarantee, recognize and strengthen fundamental rights and the human rights of trans people. In Catalonia we have. Let's do it in the state, too. Republican Left will always go by the hand of trans people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u34	Good morning, I go up to this rostrum with feelings found. On the one hand, because when we advance in rights nothing should make us feel more proud, but also because I have the feeling of living a strange revival, as if it were again at the beginning of 2018 - you see, almost five years ago - which is when I went up to this rostrum to take the colors out of the People's Party. I will say that, being that democratically blushing thing, even so, that amendment to the whole, as it was of alternative text, contained more work than that which we are dealing with today, because then it was done with respect to the law of the Confederal Group, the law of equality LGTBI, and what they did, yes, was to limit, eradicate all the public measures and policies that they sought and wanted to guarantee effective equality for trans people. Today, as in these years the democratic frameworks have been further lost, it seems that, being the companion of the far right, they directly tell us no. And they do so with two spinal motifs in their exhibition: on the one hand, gender self-determination, and also by appealing - you say - to minors. They say that nothing, that in no way, and yet - and that has already been recalled by the Minister of Equality in her intervention - the report of the opinion of the presentation of the law of recorded change, dated 28 February and published in the Official Gazette of the State on 12 March 2019 - the Minister has read it - said, more or less, and perhaps a little more, what this bill says today. And I'm going to add to what the minister was reading another question. Article 1 of that opinion report - article 38 of this draft law - stated in new paragraph 2 that persons between the ages of 12 and 16 may make the request on their own or with their legal representatives. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u36	This bill - as they are so concerned about childhood and adolescence - says that persons under the age of sixteen and over will be able to submit the application on their own, assisted by their legal representatives. That is to say, you went further in 2019 in the report of that opinion than today on this bill, and let us no longer say as regards the amendment itself to the whole that you are submitting. By the way, that report bears the signature of a number of Members who can confirm it today, such as Mrs García Puig, Mr Miquel, Mr Legarda, Mrs Telechea and, yes, Mrs González, of the People's Party. What has happened in this time? It's not a rhetorical question. What has happened is the pretension of the rise of hate speech. Who has the loudest voice? Who gets more out of democratic frameworks by viral stridence? Who accuses people in more vulnerable situations as responsible for the problems of those who also suffer oppression from predatory neoliberalism? And be careful here, when from supposedly progressive positions they are being written the virulent lines to the far right, as both Mrs Dantas and Mrs Giménez have already pointed out, in fact. Ms. Moro asked: When has the People's Party withdrawn support for the LGBTI community? Mr. Miquel replied with an example. But I'm going to answer with another, Mrs. Moro. In 2017, in order to be on the banner of the Day of Pride, in which there was representation of its political formation, some commitments had to be made, such as, for example, the existence of a law of equality LGTBI and a law for trans people. However, months later, early in 2018, they were introducing an amendment to the whole of that law, which was not a law of the Confederal Group but of the collectives who have been fighting for all their lives for it. So, yeah, at least there are two examples, and we could quote them more. The Minister of Equality, Irene Montero, always says - to which we must once again thank an allegation to the defense of the rights of all people who are undoubtedly worthy of study and mention - that fascism is restrained with more rights, because more rights turn the response to its bubbles and its mantras into material. This law is not a cultural battle if it is that by culture we only leave the idea that they confront two ways of understanding the world. It's just that for people it's not the way to understand the world, it's the way to live in the world. Nothing is more material than not being able to access a job because you are a trans woman, as happens to more than 80%, who are unemployed, according to data running unions like UGT, who says fast. Nothing is more material than suffering discrimination and violence because it is LGTBI. Nothing is more material than that you end your life with the cry of a faggot because you have a pen or nothing is more material than thirty-one years ago with the life of Sonia Rescalvo because she was a trans woman. [[Applauds]] Do you know who else knows that this is not a cultural debate, but a material debate? The ultra-right knows very well. The thing is, he's not gonna say it. They're going to do like today, they're going to spread hatred in the rostrum. They're going to tell you, you're from a town that's been running out of people because the institutions have been looking the other way for four decades and the women - we're the ones who set the population - because they've cut public services into infrastructure and shut down the industrial fabric you worked in without giving you an alternative, that that's the fault of LGBT people, feminists and those who say we don't have a spare planet, and not neoliberal policies. And you know what they won't tell you? The first thing they're gonna do when they get to the government. We could see it yesterday in Italy with Giorgia Meloni. What was your first step? It has not been any cultural battle, it has been to remove the guaranteed income. They know perfectly well that here we say that what is not called does not exist, because for redistribution purposes it has nothing. And they know that this advancement of rights is recognition, yes, and redistribution for justice. And that is to speak in an integral way of education and health, that is to speak of employment, of culture and of life in common. And in the time I have left I want to make a mention. Asturias is, together with Castile and León, the only autonomous community that does not yet have LGTB and trans legislation, and it cannot be done - I say to the Government of Asturias - from behind the collectives, the LGTBI community and, especially, the trans community. Finally, I am not going to talk about the amendment to the whole of the far right, but I am going to tell people that they are investigating it, because it sounds a little knotty and sounds like something else, which I want to quote to finish, something Brigitte Vasallo says: It is an agonistic world with no possible future, that dies killing but dies. And you know why he dies? For something Mrs. Toscano said. He talked about the tragedy of life. No, the tragedy of trans people. The LGTBI Community has, we have lives that can be beautiful and that, if they are tragic, it is precisely because of attacks like yours. [[Applauds]] And when Mrs. Moro says she wants to defend her children I know that she is well-intentioned, and I also tell her as a mother; but as a mother, what I want is to fight those who do not let my son be who he is. That is what we have to fight and that is what we have to guarantee in the institutions, and anything else should not be worrying us. As Alana Portero says, we will have reasons to dance, let's put on our shoes, that many, many and'many', and especially those who accompany us, have been winning it for a long time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Pedraza Sáinz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u38	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin my speech by reminding myself of all the women of Iran who have taken their flights and have risen to face uncovered against the tyranny of those who want to subdue them for the mere fact of being women. [[Applauds]] This is another example of how much we have left to move forward and conquer. I rise to this proud rostrum of belonging to the parliamentary group and party that have led, promoted and made all the great progress that has been made in the field of equality and LGBT rights in this country over the past forty years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is the feminist party that has been the vehicle for the great mobilizations and demands of Spanish women until they come true. And it has also been the advancement of the rights of many forgotten collectives for too long and that today are law, especially those referring to LGBT people, who, among many others, had our colleague Pedro Zerolo as a great reference. [[Applauds]] Today with the rejection of the amendments to the whole and the taking into account of the law LGTBI and trans we will continue to stand firm in our principles and in our feminist and vanguard values on rights and freedoms. Today we are discussing in this House the amendment to the whole of the VOX Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group to the LGTBI and Trans Act, and, of course, an amendment to the whole is not clear to the law. We could have argued with the presentation of amendments to the joint text or you could have made partial assessments, but no, you once again bring a no-fly to the rights of LGBT people. [[Applauds]] We live in a diverse, plural, open, tolerant and respectful country, and you're not up to it because you don't like it the way it is. You, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, feed hate speech against all those who do not enter within your mental parameters, against all those who do not think like you. But look at us, we're normal people. They're out there and we're also in here, and we're citizens of this country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, once again they stand with the extreme right of this country,'so ride, ride so much'. Instead of working on this law by debating with amendments to the article in this procedure in this House, they prefer to lie down and reattach the rights of LGBT people. And it is that you never bet on understanding the richness of diversity neither for social rights nor on building a better country for all, because, when we had to vote for equal marriage, you voted no; when we had to vote for the sexual and reproductive health law, you voted no; when we had to vote to penalize harassment of women going to clinics to interrupt their pregnancy, you voted no, and when we had to vote for the Zero Law, which gave rights to many minorities in this country, you again voted no. [[Applauds]] Moreover, every time there has been a social advance in this country, every time there has been an advance for LGBT people in this country you have voted no. And not only that, it's that he's been appealed to the courts. And that's all, then those laws have been taken advantage of. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, who do you defend? Do they defend those who remove the property tax in Andalusia? To those who give gourmet scholarships in Madrid? To those who protest because with three million euros worth of assets, they raise taxes a little bit? To the big companies, which do not want to contribute to common solidarity? To the rest you abandon them and vote against all the measures that are helping them. This law implements educational measures to prevent school harassment of LGTB children. Are you against that? This law mentions that according to UGT data, 40% of lesbian women say they have suffered verbal or physical aggression, or how the unemployment rates of trans people are triggered. Ladies and gentlemen, this law seeks to legislate in labour matters! Are they against that, too? Today lesbian women have to be married to register their children in the Civil Registry, and this law talks about removing that obligation to be married. Are they against that, too? Do you think that's unnecessary, too? Think about it, ladies and gentlemen. We can agree that this law is better. In fact, this law enters the Congress and begins its parliamentary process with a vocation of improvement, and we will be found there, working parliamentaryly this law so that the one that comes out of here is a guaranteed law. But with your no to this law you are taking away many people's rights, and you have no justification at all. We take the opportunity to talk about LGTBI plans in companies with which we eliminate discrimination. Or let us use it to talk about sexilius, because it cannot be that our young people are leaving their villages and cities because they cannot be who they are. [[Applauds]] Or let us seek to place LBT women within this law. But all that is done parliamentaryly, not with a no-fly to the law with this amendment as a whole. I told you a long time ago: If you don't want to look for the rest and want to be selfish, if you don't want to look for the citizenry, look for yourself, for your comrades in this House, for your autonomous parliaments, for the municipalities, for your militants, for your supporters, for your voters, for those who are LGTBI, and you have rights, because you have the same right to have rights as heterosexual people. And if you don't believe it, get up here, be honest and tell the citizen that a heterosexual person has the right to have more rights than a LGBTI person; be honest and say it. [[Applauds]] He ended by expressing my thanks from this rostrum to civil society, to all the LGBT collectives who continue to face the streets - even at the risk of leaving them - for obtaining rights for LGBT people, and to all the organisations, which have sent us the amendments we are studying and analysing. And, of course, the Socialist Party will find us there, in parliamentary work, conquering new rights and freedoms and defending already conquered rights with fingernails and teeth. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Members of the European Parliament]] - PROPOSED LAW ON PROTECTION, RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF ANIMALS. [[File number 121/000117]] - DRAFT ORGANIC LAW AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE, IN ANIMAL MALTRATO. [[File number 121/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u39	Then, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, we proceed to jointly consolidate the agenda items relating to the discussions of the entire Animal Protection, Rights and Welfare Bill and the Organic Law Bill amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on animal abuse. I should like to inform you that the VOX and Popular parliamentary groups in Congress have called for the enactment of the Animal Protection, Rights and Welfare Bill. Such requests shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendments to the entire bill. Three amendments to the Bill on the Protection, Rights and Welfare of Animals have been tabled to the return. Two amendments to the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code have been tabled to the full refund. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Please try to talk outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u40	Egun on, good morning to everyone again. Madam President, I am not going to talk about animals. No need, we're not going to fall into the temptation to jump out to talk about the egg. We will not omit how the law is configured to talk about its content, because in this case the continent conditions, restricts and disables the content. Having said that, we ask the Spanish Government to return the bill... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u41	Wait a minute, Mr. Agirretxea. I'm asking for silence, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u42	Thank you, Madam President. That said - I said - we ask the Spanish Government to return the draft law on the protection, rights and welfare of animals for three basic and matrices reasons: firstly, for the absence of sufficient competence in the power of the State to regulate this matter as it does; secondly, because it indisputably invades the competences of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and, thirdly, because of its centralizing and regulatory character. Having said that, I could finish my speech, there are enough arguments to reject this legislative text, but I will argue in detail what has been said. First, we denounce the legislative technique used by the Spanish Government in invoking article 149.1.13a, general economic management, as an enabling competition title. It completely lacks meaning and legal basis because it does not have the bill as its objective to establish animal regulation as an aspect of economic activity. Animal protection, as a result of general competition in agriculture and livestock, is attributed, under Article 10.9 of the Statute of Autonomy, to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. There is, as is well known, no specific title of competence to the State in this particular matter. However, it is possible for the State to make use of other titles that affect it. This is what the draft law does, which sets out, on a generic basis, three competition titles: 149.1.13.a, 149.1.16.a and 149.1.23.a of the Spanish Constitution to incorporate separately other titles covering specific precepts, namely 149.1.6.a, 149.1.8.a, 149.1.10.a, 149.1.19.a and 149.1.31.a For the three generic titles, it is a bad legislative technique not to specify which articles are attached under the coverage of each of the alleged titles. But if there is one thing clear, it is that neither the foundations and coordination of health nor the basic legislation on environmental protection make it possible to have a sufficient constitutional basis on the bulk of the content of the law. In most of its precepts the draft law does not provide for rules with the nature of basics in these matters; on the contrary, it presents a regulation to the detail of a clear regulatory court, which goes beyond the meaning of the basics, which comes to prevent the autonomous powers of development and implementation of the state bases in both the field of health and the environment. In fact, it is the title protected in article 149.1.13.a, general management of the economy, the one chosen by the legislator as the general title of competence, and such conclusion-we anticipate it already - does not result according to the constitutional doctrine. The statement of reasons, first paragraph, third paragraph, says, and I open quotes: 'The main reason for the law is not so much to guarantee the welfare of animals by assessing the conditions offered to them, but to regulate the recognition and protection of the dignity of animals by society. Therefore, it does not regulate animals as another element within our economic activity to which we owe some conditions for their ability to feel, but it regulates our behavior towards them as living beings within our environment and coexistence,' I close quotes. The aim of the law is therefore not to establish regulation of animals as an aspect of economic activity, but it is totally meaningless and of legal basis that the State invokes article 149.1.13 (a) of the Constitution as the prevailing title of jurisdiction for the adoption of this bill. Don't you, gentlemen of the government, give a little shame to this legal mischief? Or is it that everything is worth to you? In this regard, the Constitutional Court has stated that the open nature of the clause contained in article 149.1.13 (a) of the Constitution must avoid the risk that this may lead to the emptying of autonomous powers, and it is therefore obliged to prosecute in each case the constitutionality of the State measure which limits the competence assumed by an autonomous community as exclusive. It is a ruling of the Constitutional Court, 143/2012, which says that. I urge you, gentlemen of the Government, to tell me one to one what is the competitive title acquired by each of the articles; it is not the generic one; it is a trap to say that certain articles are invoked and then not to know what competitive title is that which corresponds to each of the articles legislated in the law. Do you want to hide something? Do you want to hide that you don't have a competitive title for it? To a greater extent, the Constitutional Court has also stated that article 149.1.13.a of the Constitution provides for State provisions with a direct and significant impact on general economic activity and that it should therefore be interpreted strictly when competing with a more specific subject or competition title. On the other hand, we believe that the text presents a regulation to the detail of a clear regulatory cut, which goes beyond the meaning of the basics, preventing the autonomous powers of execution and development of the state bases both in terms of health and in terms of the environment. The Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has its own legislation in this area, the last of the laws adopted on this subject being Law 9/2022 on the protection of domestic animals, with which a very relevant qualitative leap was made in overcoming the mere health perspective and that of the duties of care on domestic animals, posing a holistic protection of animal life, as well as the draft law that is intended to amend. As you see, in Euskadi, because we care very much about this matter, we have regulated and established the criteria in a law that has been supported by the Basque Nationalist Party, Euskal Herria Bildu, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the People's Party; with yours, of Podemos, no. And now you want a state law to go into our kitchen to legislate what is already established by the majority of the Basque Parliament? Well, we're not gonna let that happen. That is why we are going to do everything we can to ensure that this law does not see the light in the terms in which it is established. All that political group that defends the autonomy, sovereignty, capacity of Euskadi or Catalonia or other communities that have shown a desire for self-government, without interference, cannot accept this affront in their own face. I hope and suppose that you will be aware of this and that you will support our amendment. It's a good opportunity to defend yourself, don't you think? One cannot be half against a competitive invasion, because autonomous powers are indisputably invaded if the autonomous communities are obliged to implement territorial animal protection programmes - Article 18 of the project - when, as holders of the competence, planning constitutes the instrument on which the exclusive holder of the competence determines its specific application or, which is the same, designs, develops and implements its own public policies. Chapter II of Title I also establishes a system of animal protection registers of a central and unique nature for the whole State, to which autonomous registers must be subordinated, thus violating its instrumental competences linked to the specific exclusive title. Similarly, all Chapter III of Title I, which deals with animal protection statistics, violates Basque exclusive autonomous competence in statistics for its own purposes and competences, since anyone who has exclusive competence in the specific subject matter subject to regulation, agriculture and livestock has to exercise statistical competence in the manner in which he determines his autonomy status. Gentlemen of the United Nations Can we, what happens, that the more left-wing more centralist? Moreover, article 21 can be said in relation to emergency plans in the autonomous communities when only they are regulated in their case. And the same conclusion is drawn for article 48 when establishing obligations for the Autonomous Administration in relation to the generation of protocols and the criteria for the development of such protocols in the areas of feline colonies are listed. As regards the titles conferring specific precepts and in an exemplificative way, it is at least doubtful that article 66, which is issued under the jurisdiction of civil law, should not lead to a specific amendment of the Civil Code, as has been done through Law 17/2021, amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act, on the legal regime for animals. For all that said, we consider this bill to be untenable and we table this amendment in its entirety for adoption. As you see, we have not talked at all about the content, we have limited ourselves to the continent, which, as I said at first, restricts and disables its content, especially for those for whom we defend that we have our own capacity and we will not allow anyone to invade what is ours. If the time comes, we're talking about animals, and I hope it's not with this law. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Aguirretxea. For the defence of the amendments tabled, I have the floor by the VOX Group, Mr López Maraver. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u44	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. This bill on animals is one of the greatest ideological nonsense discussed in this House. Humanizing the animal and animalizing the man, pretending to grant rights to the animals, is an absolute desatino, liquidating the natural position of man and subjecting him to the global Marxism to which you are kneeling, which paint beautiful with a reddish colour and make him call Agenda 2030. Giving rights to animals is an irrationality in the category of pretending that the sun is the moon and the moon is the sun. The law, since man is man, serves to regulate human relations and those of these with the world, and animals, by their very nature, do not fit in the condition of men. A living being who has no natural capacity to acquire commitment or obligation cannot, by its own existential reality, acquire rights comparable to persons. [[Applauds]] His ideological sectarianism is absolutely fallacious. This government is at the service of the economic interests of the globalist progressive consensus elites, to whom animals care little or nothing. You are mere servants at your service, and it is such servileness that you dare with the folly of giving false rights to those who cannot acquire obligations. And they cannot because they lack will, because they lack the capacity to decide. They lack responsibility because they are not aware of their actions, lack the power to know and recognize that they have rights and, finally, lack the power to demand the fulfilment of their rights. [[Applauds]] VOX not only rejects this text in its entirety because it intends to grant a Pharisee rights to animals, but also because it establishes a system of obligations, restrictions, prohibitions and sanctions that pose a serious danger to the whole social, economic and cultural sector with which we live, with which we are, with which we have sat and listened. Everyone who really loves the animal begs us, please, to get them out of this fanatical norm that no one wants to be in. With this law they condemn to death quickly and without social consensus - hence their treatment as a matter of urgency - the most representative sector of our being, the sector from which we all come: the rural world. A few days ago Mrs. Belarus dared to say that the children belong to no one. Similar obstinacy has already implemented it in this norm with pets. The Project does not speak at any time of ownership of the animal; it constantly speaks of adoption, foster care or protection. Dona Ione, anyone who professes a minimum of love for their animals feels them as their own, the seven members of their family, but you do not understand the two most important things in life: love and family. [[Applauds]] They talk about animal welfare and take away all dogs and cats the meaning of their existence: reproduction. Are you going to sterilize them from your earliest age? Do you really think that depriving them of their being is giving them a right? Will they ban a bitch from getting pregnant and fine her owners with 50 000 euros for consenting to it or not making a remedy, and yet we allow a 15-year-old girl to kill the embryo of a life that, as it is not hers, gives her burial? This is a genuine communist hypocrisy. [[Applauds]] They have passed a law of free mortality for the elderly who are older or for the unlucky sick who have been tired of caring; however, they prohibit the euthanasia of an animal for old age, illness or injury with possibility of treatment or palliative care, article 27, paragraph (a) of their body of law. Taking a course to have a pet is a trial to deprive us of the freedom to have children and another contradiction of this extravagant bill. Depriving an elderly woman of the only thing that makes her company, depriving her best friend of a pastor who is alone on the mountain, ending the company of many people for not being able to study or devote time to her sectarian course is another of her contradictions. In March, in Madrid, there were more than half a million people making them see that the more than ten million people in the countryside, and mainly hunting - who today accompany us in this rostrum - do not want a law that is an attack on their entire flotation line. They intend to make us believe that this rule does not affect hunting, but, as always, they lie. The law prohibits savagery and condemns hunting dogs, ferrets and mackerel, articles 25, 39 and 40. This is, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, an uncovered ban on kinegetic activity. [[Applauds]] Their ignorance and ignorance of the rural world make them not aware that a hunting dog can get away from its owner and wrest a duel with a wild animal; with this rule they will label it as abandoned or abused animal and they will remove it, with the consequent penalty for serious infringement. The PSOE sells that hunting dogs stay out of this law, another counterfeit typical of remedial socialists. Do you really believe that hunters do not know that the amendment tabled is an electoral measure aimed at not losing the rural vote? Socialists, if there's any word left for them, please comply with this plan and don't get carried away by the communist fanaticism of those who put underwear on dogs and put cats to bed in baby cots. [[Applauds]] Scientists, rural dwellers, circus and pet people, associations brought together by nature and animals, and people of the city who love animals know that there is nothing more natural and exceptional than to respect animals and let them preserve their dignity as animals. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u45	For the same group, Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u46	With all due respect, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code on Animal Abuse is based on wrong principles which, in the opinion of this parliamentary group, require that it be returned to the Government from which it comes. For starters, the urgency procedure is unnecessary and not justified. The most serious of the arguments against this bill is the animalistic spirit that informs the articulated one and that is paired with the purpose of continuing with the implementation of its globalist agenda at the anthropological level, an approach that entangles to perfection with the spirit of the Law 17/2021 of amendment of the Civil Code, the Mortgage Law and the Law of Civil Prosecution on the legal regime of the animals, which voted in favour of all of you and to which only VOX opposed, and which has a vision of nature linked to the urban world that identifies the animals with the pets. [[Applauds]] Both this draft amendment to the Penal Code and the animal welfare bill discussed earlier are lethal to a rural world that has been transformed and managed by man for thousands of years, based on a completely different anthropological vision from that which we want to impose with these rules. What is the nihilism we are talking about? It is an international movement organized and financed by billionaires of the global elite in order to impose a new moral order in the world in the relationship of man and animals, so that the world is more culturally flat, more homogeneous, a sort of unique thought without criterion, without the certainties that the tradition, truth and common values provide us. [[applause]] This parliamentary group considers animal abuse, of course, to be a social evil, but not because animals have rights, which constitutes a philosophical and legal disparate, but because abuse constitutes a profoundly incisive and denigrating conduct of human moral dignity. [[Applauds]] The current regulation of our Penal Code offers adequate protection to animals in order to prevent their abuse. It does so by distinguishing the legal consequences of criminal action according to the type of animal, because it understands that the care of domestic and wild animals must be different in attention both to the particularities of their species in relation to man and to the context in which they live. No law can depart from the reality of what animals are in themselves, from what they are for the human being and from the treatment that, in keeping with the above, man must dispense us; in fact, the above is the doctrine of all European comparative law. This bill eliminates the distinction between domestic and wild animals, and speaks only of the abuse of vertebrate animals without distinction or exception. It is absolutely false that the German and British laws include without exception all vertebrate animals within the concept of animal abuse. It is a shame that this falsehood is incorporated into the explanatory statement. This legal text has been criticized both by the Attorney-General's Office and by the Ministry of Agriculture itself. It is curious that those politicians who consistently claim principles such as the minimum intervention of criminal law, orientation to reintegration, the criminal as the last resort to which to resort; those who call for the approximation of terrorists and who refuse to increase penalties for rapists, terrorists or abusers, or those who pride themselves on the decriminalization of abortion, demand absolutely disproportionate penalties for all these animal-related criminal types. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] The draft organic law is a serious violation of the principle of proportionality, since the penalties proposed for the crime of animal abuse are, to a large extent, consistent with those provided for in our Criminal Code for the crime of human injury. The project introduces the use of firearms as an aggravating factor in the crime of animal abuse. A clear purpose is understood in all this to end kinegetic management, hunting. This purpose has been expressed by the Government along with the end of the bullfighting and other cultural and sporting shows rooted in our tradition, with the aim of making minimalist court arguments, no matter how much the PSOE tries to disguise with stagings that do not deceive anyone at all. In short, we are faced with a text that manifests an obvious philosophical and legal disorientation; animalist, decentralized from man and disconnected from reality; that summarizes globalist ideology, like the rest of the laws discussed today in this Congress, and that incurs obvious errors of legal technique. What we want in the VOX Parliamentary Group is to decide whether we want to defend the conservation of nature and animals from the point of view of common sense or whether we want to defend that roosters rape chickens based on these absolutely schizophrenic ideologies or on these laws that they claim to dehumanize man and humanize the animal. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u47	For the defence of the amendments tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Jerez Juan.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the Penal Code in 1995, social and criminal criticism of how we treat animals has increased. This response responds to a social demand for animal protection. At present, animals enjoy criminal protection which we might consider to be comprehensive. However, we do agree on the need to further develop mechanisms to raise awareness and combat cruel and merciless conduct. [[Applauds]] Well, one thing is this and another very different thing is that you end up legislating as you do, promoting legal uncertainty, leaving huge margins to the interpretation of the norm or disheartening the traditional sectors related to animals, as you have done and also consciously. And, yes, all this and more is concentrated on this norm; a reform in which the ideological has a tendency to prevail over the legal and the scientific. For you, ideology is before people, before the law and before the rule of law if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a bill that has to be returned, that has to be rejected. Firstly, because the procedure they adopt to process this reform is not justified from the perspective of formalism that should be followed by legislative reform from the Government, and more so when it comes to reform with the rank of organic law such as the Criminal Code. If we go back to the precedents of amendments to the Criminal Code through bills passed in the last decade, we see how they were all accompanied by reports from different agencies that came to give full legal certainty to the task of legislator. In this case, they have not even bothered to probe the opinion of the Council of State and have not requested the mandatory report to the General Council of the Judiciary, even though article 561 of the Organic Law obliges them to do so. And what does this behavior show? Well, an absolute lack of respect for the State's own institutions, an indifference to the legal order and an irresponsibility to legislate while preserving the general interest. And what is the result of this behavior? For you bring here a hollow law, a law by hair, a law to the remanguillé, without sufficient legal guarantees to take it even in consideration because it is a deficient law. And it is not that I say it or my parliamentary group say it, but that the Fiscal Council has already been tasked with discovering much of the imperfections that this bill carries, which are not very few. The Fiscal Council tells them that there are expressions in the statement of reasons that are not correct; that it is technically recommended to create a new chapter; that Article 340a in paragraphs 1 and 2 is poorly drafted; that the question of vicarious violence must be brought into line with Article 97 of the Civil Code; that Article 340a(3) must provide for a fair proportionality of penalties. The Tax Council warns you of whether it makes sense to return the abused animal to its owner - listen to this - when the disqualification sentence is carried out and also warns you of the desirability or not of replacing penalties by fines. And I ask you, do you think that's not enough? Do you have little opinion of what the Prosecutor's Council says about this criminal code reform law that they bring here? Maybe they don't like it! Do we have to deal with the reform of the Criminal Code with so many reparations? Please ask yourself this question. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, this law must be returned because they did not want to collect any contribution from a socially affected group that represents a sector of vital importance for the maintenance of our field and for the maintenance of our biodiversity. They did not want to listen to any of the 400,000 people in the camp who, on March 20, manifested themselves in demand of understanding, but also in demand of respect. It is not understood, it is not explained that in the elaboration of a law of this complexity, but also of this sensitivity, they despise the traditional sectors related to nature and animals. Ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the definition of animal abuse to all vertebrate animals, without exception of any kind, poses a serious threat to cinegetic activities, hunting and fishing, among others. With the current wording, any unwise injury or damage to vertebrate animals would be considered a crime. Put yourself in the situation of a farmer who one morning discovers a wild dog who is rehearsing with his sheep, who has left three wounded and two already dead. Do you know what the response of the legal system would be to a farmer's defensive reaction? Do you know what the answer would be? Eighteen months in prison, eighteen months in prison! They have not provided for a single exception. You've gone after them. I'm on my way. They did not want to listen to those who deal with animals every day; they do not want to know what they think. You do not take them into account because you do not allow anyone to contradict your idea or your doctrine, because you never admit a different version because you are afraid of the truth of others, because it frightens you that ideology ends up losing, because you have only listened to your own and because you have decided that no one is going to stand in your way and that you have to do it by cutting for the healthy. That is precisely what sectarianism has. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u49	For the same group, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u50	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. All without exception we want to protect animals, we all want to avoid animal abuse and abandonment, we all want our pets. That is why it is essential to withdraw this law which predates the ideology to the well-being of animals and people, which limits the rights of people, which puts public health at risk, which generates legal insecurity, which invades autonomous and local competences, which undermines biodiversity and the environment, which complicates - even more, if possible - the lives of our people in the countryside, our farmers, our farmers and our hunters, whom I want to greet today because they accompany us in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Perhaps they are the most punished for the erratic and demagogic policies of this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, was it not possible to make a law that would advance animal welfare rigorously, without creating problems, without confronting the people who work every day to survive? Really, gentlemen of the government? There are autonomous laws that do so, they can even copy them. What happens is that you have your road map and what happens to citizens at a particular level or at a professional level doesn't worry the least; we're looking at it with budgets and we're looking at it with inflation. Everything we can tell you today you know, they've already told you, and I'm not going to tell you again. The Group of the European People's Party does not have to repeat this because it has been read in the more than 6000 amendments it has received. The experts, the autonomous communities, local authorities, veterinarians, agricultural engineers, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, sports federations, the Higher Sports Council, professional agricultural organizations and the National Hunting Federation have said this, but above all, the citizens, mainly those of the rural world, have said this. And most importantly: they have written it, they have it in this manifesto signed by more than 800 scientists and experts. [[Show a document]] This document reflects the importance of the so-called One Health; that is, the commitment to harmonize animal health and welfare with human health and with the planet; just the opposite of what, according to these 800 experts, makes this law that prioritizes the welfare of the individual over the survival of the species itself. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I invite you to read the manifesto, analyze it and, before voting, choose between experience, rigour and knowledge or demagogy and the pride of those who do not know, listen or be advised. It's very sad because you know what? The Government does have experts in animal welfare; what happens is that, unfortunately, they are in the submissive part of the Government, they are in the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, and they have not been taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to give you my opinion because the same applies to me as to the Director-General for Animal Rights, who I am not an expert on this subject. That is why I will convey to you the opinion of this manifesto, of these 800 experts who do have an opinion. Neither they nor the owners of the more than 29 million pets in Spain understand why we have to sterilize them, why we put all kinds of barriers to the sale of animals and we give priority to adoption - which is not bad - but is left exclusively - eye! - to animal protectors. Why is all the municipalities of Spain obliged to set up open centres 24 hours and to manage them with these animal protection entities as a priority? We don't understand why farmers can't train their mastines. We do not understand why and to whom this law protects. Well-being of whom, gentlemen of Podemos, of whom? People on the street don't make it clear, neither do we. Who's harming? We do know that: animals themselves, biodiversity and even the safety of people. Do you know that feline colonies are a great attack on biodiversity and the conservation of fauna if they are not controlled? Do you know that homeless and free domestic cats are the greatest source of bird mortality? The figure is 4 billion birds and more than 22 billion mammals a year. Do you know that these same feline colonies, if not controlled, are centres of infection and spread of diseases to people - leishmaniasis, ladies and gentlemen - and wildlife? We talked about outbreaks of feline leukemia that were about to end in 2007 with the Iberian lynx population in Doñana. In spite of this, the law promotes the creation of feline colonies without proper control and without proper mechanisms. This law causes significant damage to climate change. Fire prevention and the environment are not protected when there is no extensive livestock farming. The law limits the possibility of guard dogs and that does not help extensive livestock farming. But it's also a problem for citizen security. Limiting kinegetic activity and allowing wild fauna to grow out of control is not giving people security. I will give you two data: last year there were 10,000 agrarian accidents and 14,000 traffic accidents caused by animals. If wildlife is not controlled, tell me how these numbers are prevented from continuing to grow and there are more and more traffic accidents. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Mr Sánchez also mortgages the citizens, the municipalities, the autonomous communities, hunters and farmers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u51	You have to finish, Mrs. Marcos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u52	Yeah. I dare say that everyone in this Chamber without exception, regardless of their political colour, wants to protect animals, and it can be done with even more ambitious rules to avoid abandonment and ensure well-being, but not so. Not without scientific rigour and against biodiversity; not on the margins of professionals; not without taking into account agriculture, livestock, hunting, our traditions, our peoples and our people; not without thinking about security and citizens' rights...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u53	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u54	...not putting public health at risk and without those responsible for the municipalities and autonomous communities. Don't run and hurry... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u55	Mrs. Marcos, your time is up. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Communo Podemos-Galicia in Communo. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Echenique Robba.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u56	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago I was in Zaragoza with my mother in my house and I don't know how we ended up talking about Chuzi and Nube, a cat and a dog who came with us sedated in the winery of a Boeing 747 when we emigrated in 1991 from Argentina to Spain. And in that conversation my mother at one point said: Without them we would not have come. With this, what my mother meant was that Chuzi and Cloud were not things, but family members. [[Rumors]] Now I'm lucky to have my family with Rufi and Dida, two wonderful dogs I love with madness, and I'm sure anyone with a minimum of empathy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u57	Wait a minute, Mr. Echenique.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u58	As I was saying, I am sure that anyone who has a minimum of empathy and has had dealings with animals has absolutely clear a number of elements. First, that animals are not things, but that they are sentient beings, they are beings who have feelings. Secondly, in the vast majority of cases the animals are completely defenseless before a human being who wants to harm them. And, thirdly, and as a result of these two elements, that mistreating an animal is a morally miserable act. Although there is a reactionary minority in this House that opposes this, trying to distort the debate and generate hatred, there is a crushing majority out there who believes that we need to seek the well-being of our fellow citizens on the planet and protect them from suffering and abuse, a crushing majority. The problem is that this very broad social consensus is not reflected in our current legal system. In fact, the two bills we are debating today are a brave first step towards getting our animal protection legislation in line with what our country thinks. That is why it is a pride for me to be able to defend these two laws today. So that the citizens who listen to us understand what we are talking about, beyond the noise involved, let me give some examples. Is it okay for someone to be discarded in the layers of dogs, to select the puppies that do not serve and to be thrown directly into a container or buried in live lime? I don't think anyone out there is okay with this savage. Well, in this law only authorized breeders will be able to breed, generating a traceability system so that this kind of thing cannot be done. Is it okay for someone to put a pin in a tube and pressurize it, like it's a projectile, to get shot with a rifle? Out there only to a terribly small minority may well seem this medieval practice. Well, in the law we propose to prohibit this practice as well as other activities that cause unworthy suffering or treatment to animals such as cockfights, which are still allowed in some territories of Spain. Does anyone feel good about a horse participating in a procession for hours to 40 degrees under the sun and eventually dying lying on the floor of a heart attack? Beyond what one thinks of processions, it is obvious that this is not right. That is why in this law we set limits on hours of use, temperatures and weights of the load so that these types of activities can be carried out without the occurrence of animal abuse. Is it okay for anyone to sacrifice about a hundred thousand animals a year in Spain in kennels and other establishments? I don't think anyone likes this. Well, in this law we raise the zero sacrifice, which can only be sacrificed pet animals for health or euthanasia reasons. This already happens in some autonomous communities. How do you get it? For, basically, fighting abandonment and controlling breeding, which are two elements that we also propose in these laws. Is it okay for someone to leave about 300,000 animals in Spain a year and leave a dog lying on the sidewalk of a road like it's a broken toy we've been tired of? I don't think anyone who has a bit of empathy is okay with this. Well, in this law we propose to ensure the identification of the animal throughout the territory so that this practice is more difficult and also to increase the penalties of abandonment, especially those of disqualification for the possession of animals. Does anyone think it's okay that the one who killed the dog Timple by tying him to a stick for days in the sun and suffocating him with a tight muzzle gets out of his pinkies? This generated a great deal of indignation in our country and I believe it is a justified outrage. Well, in this law we propose to increase the penalties for animal abuse. Is it okay for someone to torture a fox to death, as happened recently in Huesca, or for some hikers to play a wild boar by a ravine, as we also had the misfortune to see in the media? I don't think anyone likes this kind of savagery. That is why we propose in these laws to extend protection and abuse offences to all vertebrates, as is already the case in other countries. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u59	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u60	This is why these laws, of elements of protection and increase of penalties with which the vast majority of people of our country agree, including many voters of the right-wing parties. However, the political and media right has opposed this law as it always does, through a campaign of bulwark and hatred. The main boulevard they have spread is that this law goes against the rural world and the hunters. To check that it's a bubble, just know how to read and feel like reading the law. But it is not only that there is no article in these laws that limit in any way the activity of hunting - you can already imagine what I think of hunting, worse a fact that there is no article in this law that limits the activity of hunting - it is that, moreover, the political and media right is severely discrediting those who claim to defend. These laws do not limit hunting, but they do prohibit puppies from being buried in live lime, from hanging from a tree to gorges, or from being shot at by a hunting dog and being dragged down the road, as we had the misfortune to see on television; this is prohibited. The right seriously detests hunters when they argue that banning these things is limiting hunting, because that is as much as saying that you cannot hunt without carrying out these savages, and I am sure that this is not true and that it is an unjust generalization. But the bubbles, even if they are a lie, generate hatred and political violence, and in this climate it was very disturbing - and I have to say here - that nothing less than the Royal Spanish Federation of Hunting broadcast a video in which a target was placed on the face of Sergio García Torres, general director of Animal Rights of the Government of Spain. Members of the PP and VOX, I think they have missed a great opportunity to condemn this fact from this rostrum. From here I support the Director General who has led these laws. [[Applauds]] As I have already said, no hunter who treats his animals well will be affected by these laws, none, but obviously, if there is animal abuse, whether of a companion dog, a hunting dog or a dog who performs any other work, these laws are blunt, because a dog is a dog, dedicates itself to what is dedicated. That is why we do not understand that the PSOE has bought the speech from the right and introduced the amendment it has tabled to get the hunting dogs out of this law. That is why I humbly and firmly ask the Socialist Group's colleagues to withdraw this amendment. Maybe they're not writing the speech to the right, but, as my partner Sofia Fernández Castañón said a moment ago, maybe they're setting the lines. Furthermore, I think you know that there is a social cry out there against this amendment. Not only am I asking for it as a representative of Unidad Podemos, but a lot of people are asking for it on the street. Furthermore, we would like them to be part of the broad social consensus around these laws; we would really like them to be part of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of the other groups in the House, to bet on protecting and caring for those helpless beings who give us their affection, who are comrades, who are friends and who are family members, is one of the most decent things a country can do. That is why I ask you, please, to vote in favour of these two bills and to make this Parliament a little more decent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u61	The next item is Mr Agirretxea Urresti.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u62	I am speaking very briefly, Madam President. Does anyone think that those who have legislated this law can do so without a competitive title to do so? Does anyone think that they do not have the legislative capacity and power to interfere with what is already legislated and can do so within their own autonomous competences? Does anyone think that, by appealing to competing titles corresponding to other subjects and by wanting to legislate with different subjects, he can do so with such a law? Yes, someone thinks so, those who have written this law; these think that they can do it and that is why they have written it. No one has answered any of the arguments that I have put forward in my speech in defence of my entire amendment. Only animals have been talked about and no one has answered me if they are capable and if they can do so with the methodology they have done. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. The next item is Mr López Maraver. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u64	Ladies and gentlemen of the United Parliamentary Group We can, all they tell us is a fallacy because they care very little about animals, their welfare and their conservation. As I have already said, you are only interested in your ideological sectarianism, in being at the service of those who lead you and in the progressive consensus that has invented the new religion of mascotism and animalism as a dogma of faith to generate commercial interests that ultimately have an impact on the dignity of animals. What they have told us in a zalamera way is but a unique strategy and exclusively for their own interests that consists in ruining the countryside, its people and its animals. [[Applauds]] This law is a faithful reflection of the Machiavellian infrastructure of placement of friends that began with a Ministry of Social Affairs and 'Communist' Agenda and another of Equality, which continued with a poorly-called General Directorate of Animal Rights and which now intends to create structures, as one of its former leaders - yes, Mr Errejón - was already advancing us in 2018 and I quote textually: when we lose elections, we must leave seeded popular institutions that resist and where to take refuge when governing the adversary. There is a need for an autonomous economic infrastructure that will allow, for example, a large part of the militant cadres that are now engaged in institutional work. In this bill they have not created one or two garitos for their militancy, but have allowed the luxury of creating more than ten models of placement agencies: the State Council for Animal Protection, the Scientific and Technical Committee for the Protection and Rights of Animals, the central system of registers for animal protection, the registration of entities for animal protection type RAC, RAT, RAS, GCOF and DEF, the professional register of animal behaviour, the registration of pet zoos or the registration of pet breeders. Is it true that with all this conglomerate of entities they claim that the Spaniards believe that you are interested in animals? The only thing that interests them is the economic amount they generate. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Do you think you're going to believe that cutting the testicles or amputating the ovaries to a dog or a dog is for your animal welfare and yet amputating the ears or the ass is abused when done for strictly sanitary reasons? Do you consider that the Spaniards are going to believe that this is a law against abandonment, when the director general of the bad management of animals this week has confirmed that there is no official data on abandonment in Spain? Do you really believe that the ban on raising animals by private individuals is for animal welfare or is it that the breeding is only going to be able to make entities that you control? Do you think Spain is going to believe that the ban on the sale of animals in specialised stores is for animal welfare and not for its economic interest? Do they really want us to believe that hunting dogs will be unprotected if they remain outside the law, when the Penal Code itself already punishes the ill-treatment of pets with fines, prison sentences and years of disqualification? Do you really think that the rural world believes that including hunting dogs in this law is for animal welfare, or are you really going to believe that this is an uncovered ban on hunting? [[Applauds]] Since when does a mascot law de facto prohibit traditional sports modalities such as wildlife or pichon shooting? Since when does a mascot law intend to limit an activity such as cetera, declared an Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO? Ladies and gentlemen, stop fooling us. After seeing in article 27 of your bill the such nonsense of saying that the procedure of assisted death of an animal must be with methods that guarantee your humanitarian condition, you can expect anything. [[Laughter and applause]] I don't know if they want to laugh at us or if, really, they're capable of believing their own lies. The amendment to the Criminal Code, ladies and gentlemen, is another of the follies that this Government has tried to bring us on 1 August through the urgent procedure in a completely unjustified and unnecessary way. They know that the current regulations in our Penal Code already offer adequate protection to animals in order to avoid their abuse. Article 337 of the Penal Code assumed that Spanish legislation was one of the most protected in this area. Gentlemen of the government, are you going to have a person in prison who kills a chicken in his house to eat it? Is anyone going to jail to kill a rat who's sneaked into his house? [[The lady]] Are you going to condemn for animal abuse someone who runs over a bird or any other wild animal? [[Applauds]] According to their bill, these people are going to jail. The project, by extending the definition of animal abuse to all vertebrate animals, poses a serious threat to hunting, fishing and a range of activities in the rural world. I have said this with the law on animals and I repeat this with the amendment of the Penal Code: it is a ban on open-ended hunting, a real ruin for those who dedicate themselves to animals and a condemnation of the extinction of the rural world. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u66	Thank you, President. Mr Echenique, we can talk about our pets all for a long time, but here we are talking about a law that really does not help or protect animals and puts at risk biodiversity and a law that, if adopted in these terms and followed their processing, creates serious risks to human health and animal health. I'm going to give you an example, since you wanted to make us soft. Put yourself in the place of an 80-year-old grandfather whose best friends, in most cases because in the villages there are not too many inhabitants, are precisely his dogs. No one is going to want them more than he or anyone is going to know how to raise them better than he and yet this law obliges him to sterilize them and forbids him to have them in a yard. It turns out that this law allows us to have pets and animals in cities within a floor, but prohibits having them in a courtyard or in a similar area. You tell me where the welfare is. Moreover, if the dog thinks about leaving for a couple of days - and I can assure you that it usually happens in the villages - you put a fine on the owner for abandonment. Moreover, if you want to have a dog again later, you can no longer raise it and you have to go to an adoption center run by a protection entity to which you have to finance and maintain all the municipalities of this country; the 8,000 municipalities of this country are forced to have protection centers. But, eye, we continue with the inconsistencies of the law. It turns out that this law, according to the project itself, does not require funding or funding. You want to tell me how all these centers are gonna work? With unpaid volunteers? Who's gonna pay for it? We will see whether there is a specific item in the State budget proposal to implement this rule. For example, sterilizing a cat amounts to about 180 euros, then we have to keep it, deparase it and guarantee a dignified life, and we agree on that. We all want to ensure the welfare of animals and we all want to ensure that there is no abuse, but this law does not succeed. He also talks about wild birds. Do you know that this law poses a serious risk and that experts say so? Do you know that, in addition to having no funding, the funds coming from the hunting sector to the municipalities are limited and withdrawn? Look, they're contributing about €65 billion to this country's GDP. Let's talk about the impossibility of applying this rule. The inconsistencies are such that people will not know what to stick to. On the one hand, it is committed to individual responsibility but, on the other, it creates the figure of the caregiver of feline colonies. All forms of mutilation, including disease prevention, are prohibited, but it is proposed to mark cats with cuts in their ears. They are said to have to be social animals. It is true that in the last project this has disappeared. Eye! They say it does not affect hunting and they have removed it as an article, but then they have put it in all the obligations that have to be fulfilled by livestock and animals that the Ministry of Defence has for safety. Look, don't fool us, this law is absolutely impossible to apply and it doesn't benefit anyone. They're talking about animal protection. Does this law really protect anyone? It is not just the People's Party that asks, they must listen to the experts and read the four amendments that have been tabled in their entirety. And I tell you four, because the first has been that of your own government, of the Socialist Party. [[Give it up.-Show a picture]] This is the great amendment to the whole. If it does not concern hunting, ladies and gentlemen, why are you submitting an amendment before the budget is voted on? If you don't want to listen to us, listen to your people, Mr. Lambán and Mr. Page. Each and every one of them has said that this law must be withdrawn. [[Show a picture]] We must defend the animals, we must protect their welfare and we must avoid their abuse, but not so, ladies and gentlemen. There are autonomous laws, copy them. I am not going to tell you that you copy that of the Galician Community or that you copy that of Castilla La-Mancha, you copy that of the Basque Country. [[Rumors]] None have had problems, all of them benefit animals and all seek their protection, but none does so on the basis of an exclusively ideological system. This is not protection, it is obsession with an extreme animalism misunderstanding that puts people's rights, their safety and their health at risk. This law does not ensure or promote animal welfare, moreover, it does not fulfil the five basic freedoms of animal welfare. Make him look at it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u67	Mrs. Marcos, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u68	I know that it is a commitment to governability with the Lords of Podemos, but that they fail after the contract they have failed with all the Spaniards during these four years, is not going to be a novelty either. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u70	Thank you, President. To respond specifically to the amendments as a whole, I will go in order. Firstly, I should like to refer to the VOX Group. When you read things like that humans have the status of land administrators or read things like that animals are under our domain, you understand that VOX's model of animal protection legislation is the Old Testament. [[Applauds]] Of course, this law is far removed from those legislative parameters and, therefore, it is normal for them not to like it. The amount of bubbles that have been spilled with respect to what the law does or does not do is simply mind-blowing. The VOX spokesman has come to talk about chickens raping chickens. Really, gentlemen of the far right, I want to know what you smoke before the plenary. [[All right, cheers. -]] Seriously, I find the interventions you make here incredible. We have been accused of trying to humanize animals, which is not a very negative thing, and of animalizing humans. We've been accused of wanting to encourage humans. Until now we had been accused of wanting to turn Spain into Venezuela and of wanting to steal the beach house from people, but we had never been accused of wanting to encourage humans. I suppose Soros has commissioned us, which is behind this globalist agenda. Gentlemen of the PP, you're the same, but with three balls less. They come here and release a series of bubbles that are not included in this law and, in addition, they are covered by a supposed legal competence that you worship yourselves, but which you lack. You in the text of the amendment confuse the name of the general address - you call it animal protection, but it is not called animal rights - and you say that there is a possible breach of Article 25.1h) of Law 50/1997, which is an article that does not exist in this law. You come here pretending to be very solvent in law, release a lot of bubbles, confuse the name of the department that has led these laws and cite articles that do not exist in the current legislation. I think that's all there is to it. The PNV spokesman wanted to move that we take the issue of competences very seriously. I believe that, as you have put it, with all due respect, there is some doubt. That is to say, to say that animal protection hangs over the competition for livestock and agriculture is, at least, debatable. We should see the competitive detail, but it is, at the very least, debatable that it hangs on livestock and agriculture when, above all, the protection of animals is regulated outside the context of production in this law. And I believe that this debate on competences, to which you know we are receptive in my group, could be perfectly reflected in the process of amendments. I respectfully say to you that we do not think that this competent and legitimate debate, which we have no problem in giving you parliamentary procedure, requires an amendment to the whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u71	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u72	I'll try to be quick because time is short. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft law on the protection, rights and welfare of animals, we want to express our concern about the lack of consensus with municipalities and autonomous communities, as well as with the social sectors that are going to be affected by this regulation. Similarly, there is a very serious forgetfulness of the rural perspective, despite the repeated request we have been making in this House for the implementation of a rural guarantee mechanism in political initiatives. We also express our concern about the confusion that has been transferred to society, as well as the use of this law to impose cultural struggles that undoubtedly harm the rural environment, its activities, its products and all its people. We are faced with a centrist urban bill, which does not think of the inhabitants and, in this case, not of the animals of the emptied Spain. Go ahead with our unequivocal commitment to animal welfare, our recognition of the dignity of animals as living beings, and the need to combat problems such as their abandonment. But this bill has not observed, has not studied, has not heard, has not legislated on the reality of the rural world. There is a very serious lack of knowledge when the specific circumstances of animals are forgotten in a very important part of the country. We will therefore support the return, with a view to a new wording incorporating the perspective of the rural world and reaching this House with much more consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I support the amendments in their entirety to the draft law on the protection, rights and welfare of animals, and to the amendment of the Organic Law on Animal Abuse of the Criminal Code. I do so in line with the Forum's trajectory, including its electoral programmes, and especially with the extraordinary link between Asturians and animals, in an express way in our rural environment, with the irreplaceable work of farmers and farmers, who are undoubtedly the best environmentalists and who, in return, receive sticks and more sticks from the governments of Madrid and the Principality. [[Applauds]] To farmers, as the greatest defenders of the environment and our natural paradise, we owe the defense of the life cycle for the love they have for the animals they work with daily and, moreover, hard and sacrificed. Ladies and gentlemen, many Spaniards are fed up with the falsifying ecological politics that discriminates against those who maintain ancestral jobs, betrayals and ways of life; that has raised the protection of the wolf to the grave detriment of the herd; that demonizes the kinegetic activity, the foundation of the economy of our peoples; that disqualifies the primary sector with the style of the human being being the only mammal who steals milk from another species; and that, in short, promotes animalist legislation that alters the order of the factors. It is nature that is at the service of the human being, not the other way around. I shall therefore vote in favour of the amendments in their entirety. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u76	Good morning and thank you very much, Madam President. Again, we find that the Government is bringing us a law that, in advance, has the rejection of the competent institutions to implement it. In this case, it can be said that the majority of the autonomous communities, if not all, disagree with the content of this law; the same as the municipalities, which would be directly responsible for its implementation; at least in Cantabria. It also has against the world of livestock, hunting, grazing, etc. With none of its representatives, the Government has had the least contact, the least negotiation. My party, the PRC, holds that we owe a lot to the farmers, to the rural world, to pass from them in this way. I do not have time to list the many drawbacks that this text generates. A single example is the expenditure for municipalities that would entail their implementation without having any counterpart from the State, because imposing obligations for municipalities without the necessary financial, material and personal resources is like bringing the laws to non-compliance. It can be understood that, through laws, one can try to transform the world, the society. But, as Michel Crozier said, society is not changed by decree. Today, with these laws, we are precisely in such a distant norm of society, of the majority of people - say what Mr Echenique says - which is the opposite of that famous phrase that said: We must raise to the political category of normal what at the level of the street is normal. Quite the opposite. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 130 of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy provides that the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands has exclusive competence over animal protection and welfare. Article 131 provides that the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands shall have exclusive jurisdiction over hunting. Article 141 establishes the exclusive competence of the community in animal health matters. We also have exclusive competence in statistics, which is also being violated. Neither the foundations and coordination of health nor the basic legislation give constitutional basis to this law. The competence on animal protection has been exercised by our canary community since 1991 through the Animal Protection Act of that year, the Canary Islands Hunting Act of 1998, and, this month, the proposed Welfare and Animal Protection Act for updating the 1991 Act is now before the Parliament of the Canary Islands. On the other hand, and equally important, Mr de Podemos, if it is not modified with regard to asilwed cats, it is a new threat to the biodiversity endemic to the Canary Islands. Asylvestrated cats have to be considered invasive exotic species, as this would allow them to take action for their control. This bill hinders these actions, threatening our endemic species, such as the giant lizards of El Hierro, La Gomera and Tenerife, the blue finch of Gran Canaria, the lisneja of Fuerteventura and the museña Canaria, and their predation on sea birds. It should be borne in mind that the conservation of these canary species is a priority for the European Union. This project does not solve, for another example, the breeding and marketing of threatened species in the terms that Spain accepts when belonging to CITES. We therefore agree to return the text to the Government, because it violates the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, because it endangers the biodiversity and protected species of the Canary Islands and because, moreover, it has no social or political consensus. I hope that the Basque Government will resort to the Constitution, since as far as the Canary Government is concerned, of course, it neither defends our status nor defends the interests of the autonomous community in matters that directly attack the biodiversity and protected species of the Canary Islands, our traditions and our culture. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u80	Thank you, President. With the death this week of journalist Jesús Quintero has remembered much his style of interviews with his long silences. The truth is that if someone wanted to emulate Quintero in an interview with the PSOE on this issue, these long silences would be very uncomfortable, because you have tabled an amendment to a law of your own Government and have done so even before you passed the whole procedure. Finally, they have allied with PP and VOX to unprotect hunting dogs. These are uncomfortable silences because they are true, but, contrary to what their drivers intended - to point out the exception of hunting dogs - it has managed only to warn of the terrible practices of which they are victims. Wanting to unprotect a specific type of dog, there has been evidence of the abandonment and ill-treatment of which they are victims. And there have also been some practices of elimination of these dogs, such as the so-called 'putting to write machine to the raccoon', which, if you don't know what it is, with a simple search you will discover. Contrary to what their promoters wanted, they have focused on the abandonment and abuse of hunting dogs; a phenomenon that is not precisely marginal, if we look at the statistics of protectors and NGOs. This is well known to these rescuers, who - it is well remembered too - are mostly women. We will support this law to continue and reject amendments that would exclude hunting dogs. And we will propose that we go further on issues such as veterinary VAT, which should not be at 21 %. In the process of amendments we will also have time to monitor the competition aspect, but today, for animal protection, we will reject the amendments as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u82	Egun on. Good morning, President. It is an undeniable reality that the awareness of society for the sake of animal protection is a common place of society. It is also true that there are minorities who continue to enjoy animal suffering. But while it is true that until a few years ago it was possible to see how, in the name of what some call tradition, culture, common values and sport, even, a goat was thrown from a bell tower, darts were thrown at a bull in the middle of a street until it was killed by a shotgun shot, we have also sadly seen in Euskal Herria how a goose's neck was torn at popular parties or how a bull was thrown at a popular party. This no longer happens and I am convinced that, given the evolution of society, other sufferings that continue to occur today in the name of culture, tradition, values or even sport - said a spokesman - will disappear. It's common sense. In the state society there are 29 million pets - I was going to say pets but Mrs Calvo is going to be angry if I say pets -; of them, 15 million between dogs and cats. And it is true that the sensitivity and awareness of families with these animals is increasing, but today, unfortunately, situations of abuse and terrible acts against these sentient beings continue to occur. I have received a dossier, which you have certainly also received, from the Franz Weber Foundation, in which it shows us a hundred cases of cruelty against animals that have occurred in recent years, that have occurred in this society. [[shows a book]] I believe that this is the only reason why we should be forced to take legislative measures to prevent such events from happening. And while these acts of cruelty, of ill-treatment, will not be so numerous, what is very numerous in the Spanish state - which has a record - is the case of abandonment of pets. Seven hundred pet animals are abandoned every day in Spain, it has the European Union record. With a figure of more than 9 million dogs, the amendment to the whole of the People's Party said that only 280,000 cases of abandonment occur. You won't think much of it! It seems excessive to me. How do we prevent this from happening? It tells us that this has a majority social rejection. If these amendments to the whole are to be rejected and this House represents Spanish society, the same is true of the fact that the story has to vary. But even the CT - little suspect - has said that there is a growing concern for the protection of nature, and in particular for animals, and it constitutes a widespread trend of society, which is seen as a manifestation of moral progress and, as such, perfectly suited to the dignity of the human being. Gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party, do not attempt to return to the 19th century, look to the future; if it is not only for animals, it is also for their humanity and their conception of how human beings should relate to animals. An attempt is being made to adopt a law, but there are already similar laws in the European environment, in neighbouring countries and, as mentioned above, in most autonomous communities; recently, an animal protection law has been adopted in the Basque Autonomous Community. But in addition to the fake report that there is a social majority against this law, what is in all the surveys - I said - is a social majority, which exceeds even 80%, which demands higher levels of protection for animals, and that is that it is also common sense. After the declassification of animals, with the reform of the Civil Code, it is common sense for such a law to go forward, because there is an obligation to protect the welfare and dignity of these animals. This is in relation to the amendments to the whole of the People's Party and VOX. With regard to the amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party, we have to say that in substance and in spirit we fully agree. Once again, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, Podemos, present a law of clear Jacobin spirit, re-centralizing, which invades competences in the name of a greater good. Mr. Echenique said they're receptive. They're receptive, but they hide very well. It just happens one more time. We will contribute to the process of amendments to ensure that competition is respected, but this cannot be done once again. With regard to the reform of the Penal Code, it is obvious that since Euskal Herria Bildu we are not in favour of a punitive excess. However, as an example, a lady who killed 2,000 dogs and cats in the case of the Torremolinos Animal Park, finally entered prison for falsifying the signature of a veterinarian, and not for killing 2,000 animals for many years. We believe that if penalties are sought that can be dissuasive, we must raise that level of punishment, that level of punishment, simply so that cruel acts such as this example we see in the 'distortion dossier' are not committed. I would simply like to announce that we will vote against the amendments as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u84	Thank you, President. Animal welfare is a concern of millions of Spaniards. A law with the territorial scope and the object of the rule we are debating today is necessary, although it contains things that we do not share and which clash with some of our approaches. We agree in part with one of the amendments tabled as a whole, but there are other amendments with which we do not agree, which are absolutely intractable. For example, the amendment to VOX, which states that animals are food or that a law against forest fires is to give rights to trees. It would be the logic to which VOX's approaches would lead us. And, on the other hand, there is that of the PNV, who is very concerned about the rights, welfare and protection of animals, but before there is the narcissism of the difference: let us protect the dog, yes, but the Basque dog; the rest, let them bite him. Well, we cannot accept these amendments. With regard to the increase in penalties for animal abuse and the extension of animals protected under the Penal Code, we fully agree with and will oppose the amendments to the whole, and in the amendments to the welfare law we will abstain. In Citizens we consider that the human being has an obligation to avoid the unjustified suffering of living beings and that we have to take care of and try to make the existence of animals the most dignified and comfortable possible, considering also as animal welfare the very precise definition that sets European standards. This obligation to treat other living beings well, in our view, is generated because we are the only species that understands in its entirety what other living beings feel, suffer or fear, for example. This capacity, which is empathy, makes it an obligation for us to treat as best as possible other living beings. Spain does need a framework law on animal welfare, but above all it needs an increase in penalties for ill-treatment and abandonment. On the law, I want to point out to you that we believe in your need, but there are aspects that are being misfocused. While we argue that all animals in the custody of persons should be subject to protection, we do not consider it realistic that all animals are subject to the same regime. Shepherd dogs, hunting dogs, cops, rescue dogs, etc. must be protected, but their specialty must be recognized. They cannot be subjected to exactly the same articles as other animals that are conceived in another way, because of their completely different functional nature, and right now the law does not contemplate it. On the other hand, I will show you how necessary the reform of the Criminal Code is. The abandonment of animals is increasingly causing worse numbers and the holiday season is particularly dramatic. I'm going to count specific cases. I met The case of an abandoned dog in Granada; a yorkshire, to get an idea of the size, for the scene I'm going to tell you. This dog was abandoned three times by its owner, but found a way back home. He returned with his legs bloody and thirsty dead, but his owner rewarded him by taking out the car and hitting him repeatedly passing over the dog's head to make sure he was well dead after leaving him. All this was told by a witness. The Civil Guard identified her, did not go to prison and paid a fine, in my opinion, quite small. In Torremolinos the bloodiest of the cases occurred, for me the paradigm of the need to raise the penalties in the Penal Code, in a center agreed with the city council. Neighbors in the area reported to the Civil Guard that they were heard roaring and mutilated permanently at night, for days and consecutively. When the Civil Guard was personified in the place, and after the relevant research, they were able to certify the following: the director of this center killed at least 2183 dogs and cats. The method was long extermination days, three days a week, in which to save costs, they were not injected with prior anesthetic. Before administering a euthanase, an anesthesia is injected that numbs the animal to prevent it from convulsing or has some kind of suffering when the euthanase is injected. Well, not only is it not anaesthetic injected, but euthanasia, to save costs, was insufficiently injected. In this way, the animals were dying for hours. These were the howlings and howlings that the neighbors heard. Some of the bodies of the animals were introduced into the refrigerators still alive. All this was certified by SEPRONA of the Civil Guard, 2183 cases. Then, of course, he handed over false documents to the city council, in which he reported on a management that did not correspond to what I have just told them. Well, in this case, this lady did go to prison. For documentary falsehood she was sentenced to two years and nine months, but for the cruel and degrading sacrifice of these 2183 animals she was sentenced to one year in prison, for which she would not have entered prison, as you well know. If he can't falsify documents, he'd be walking quietly through the streets. Both the judge and the prosecutor called for the creation of an aggravated subtype for these cases. This is not covered by the law and we believe that the process of amendments should be improved. My parliamentary group wants these people to pay it dearly, more expensive than they pay today. If possible, the cruelest conduct, such as the one I have just told you, must go to jail. We believe that these are undesirable behaviors and that those who are capable of doing something like this really are a danger to society as well. On the other hand, another important aspect that we brought to Congress ourselves is the need to extend protection to wild or wild animals, but we believe that the type is poorly specified and that it can be extended to legitimate activities that may be adversely affected by the current wording. If we believe, for example, that the guy who recorded himself kicking a fox who had stepped on a stock and who lacked a leg, who dedicated himself to recording himself kicking the fox, throwing him through the air and then with the heel of the boot crushed his head to death and the Civil Guard was only able to fine 600 euros, he has to have his conviction in the Penal Code. We therefore very much agree with the increase in penalties in the Criminal Code. The vast majority of Spaniards want animals, the vast majority of Spaniards condemn animal abuse and torture, the vast majority of Spaniards are ahead of this Parliament in this area. Listen to the law, follow them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u86	Thank you, Madam President. It is certainly an ethical and political obligation to move forward in the protection and welfare of animals. Nor is there any doubt that this, in addition to social awareness, requires regulatory regulation, a specific legal framework. Of course, the question is who and how. Today we are discussing an amendment to the whole, that of the PNV, which puts the emphasis precisely on the competition issue with criteria that we share, because, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, it is a rule, like others that bring us, absolutely centralizing. We do not, of course, with the opposition of the ultra-rights, especially with that ultra-right which in its argument rejects on a plan that a rule on this matter is necessary, and that which this Government is most concerned with has left it out of the law. I'm not just talking about hunting, but basically about bulls. We find it absolutely surprising and shameful that the government of the PSOE and of the United States We can, on the initiative of which party, intend to adopt a law that guarantees animal welfare and avoids ill-treatment, and excludes what is undoubtedly the maximum expression of animal abuse such as bullfights, which are not art or culture, but torture which must be banned. This was, of course, a golden opportunity to definitely end that savagery, but they preferred to look elsewhere. PSOE and Podemos will have to explain why, and they will have to decide, because obviously the BNG will make amendments in this respect in the subsequent processing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u88	Thank you, President. However, ladies and gentlemen of the amendments as a whole, Spain, despite its allegations, remains at the forefront of animal abuse and abandonment, so we will have to do something and we will have to work a lot. Here the only delusion, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are their insults and their negationist speeches week after week. They deny climate change, sexist violence, the 2030 Agenda, the rights of trans people and it would be rare not to close the circle denying the rights and welfare of animals. However, I am surprised by the People's Party denying itself, because it makes an intervention that somehow runs counter to regulations and regulations that have already been adopted in autonomous communities where you have responsibilities. In More Country-Greens Equo we want to see as quickly as possible a law of welfare, rights and animal protection proper to the 21st century, which is supported, as has been said, by a large majority. That is why we will vote against all the amendments in their entirety. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I would like to give you a serious warning: the amendments you have incorporated into the debate are unacceptable. It is as much as allowing impunity for actions against a very important and very vulnerable part of animals: hunting dogs. Ladies and gentlemen - I am addressing the rostrum - this law does not prohibit hunting, it wants to protect the hunting dogs that you so say you want and protect. That is what this law does and, therefore, we find ourselves with what same dogs, same rights, same law. We will also support intensifying sanctions in the Criminal Code. We will be working on amendments, which are very important. But, ladies and gentlemen, really, with the processing of this law of protection, rights and welfare of animals we will be a more dignified and respectable country, which is what the majority of the Spanish population wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u90	Thank you, President. The two laws for the improvement of the protection of animal rights and for the amendment of the Criminal Code in the crime of ill-treatment are both necessary and uncomfortable: 6000 allegations to the preliminary draft; hundreds of amendments already collapsing the mail servers and today five amendments to the whole. But none of them, none of them, will have as much impact as that raised by the Socialist Group, which leaves the dogs used in hunting or grazing, among others, outside the umbrella of the protection provided by the law. That is indeed an amendment of all that distorts until it makes the object of the law almost unrecognizable, the protection of all family animals. The PSOE arbitrarily limits the rights of those dogs who provide just the most service to the human being. It is inadmissible, of return or, rather, of withdrawal, and they are on time. Society is making a clear statement and, no matter how much you pay the citizens for the train, this amendment is not going to come out for free to you. And this also goes for his necessary accomplices of PP and VOX. There is scope to modify the text and accommodate the needs of livestock or kinegetics, among others. Let us seek consensus that does not leave out the law what is just. Landing in today's totality, the claim of the PNV is a classic: invasion of the exclusive competences of the autonomous communities. As in so many other texts, this is also a red line for Junts, especially if we consider that Catalonia has been a pioneer within the State in the recognition of animal rights, to the point of passing a law to ban bulls that the Constitutional annulled, but without being able to prevent bull stands in Catalonia from becoming a stage of concerts or a commercial center. Amendments will therefore have to be made to some of the points mentioned as an invasion of competence by the PNV, but we agree with the desirability of creating a register - I do not know whether it is unique or centralized, but I am sure it is interconnected - for the control of all animals in order to prevent and pursue ill-treatment and reduce abandonment and misappropriation. Another issue is the PP and VOX amendments. The PP bases its totality on the fact that there are already laws to protect the rights and welfare of animals and on the fact that the promotion of responsible tenure - you say - has allowed them to be generalized in appropriate behaviors in the possession of animals. Attention!, it has been said, Spain is the leader in Europe in abandoning animals, cats and dogs, almost 800 a day. VOX says that pets have no rights and consider penalties for ill-treatment disproportionate to high. The answer that deserves its entirety I have brought in book format. [[Show a book]] The dossier of horrors, published by the Franz Weber Foundation, collects one hundred of the thousands of cases of ill-treatment that will not be heard in the media, but that are a desperate cry. The proposed amendment to the Criminal Code makes it possible to replace convictions with a fine, i.e. the modest price of 400 or 600 euros, a heartless being can ill-treat or torture to death by starvation or in an incarnated manner a dog, a cat or a fox. If we are not able to avoid it, we will be guilty of a setback in the rights of historical and unforgivable animals. We shall vote no to the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. The human-animal bond reconnects with nature and, paradoxically as it seems, civilizes, to the point that Mahatma Gandhi proposed measuring the goodness of a civilization by how it treats animals. Only a sort of scientific negationism denies animals their ability to be sentient beings and, consequently, rights holders. The recent pandemic, in case we lack arguments, has shown us how we are part of one world and one health. Today we face how animals should be treated in the Spanish State; in particular, we focus on the efforts around two scourges to eradicate by denigrating, embarrassing and forerunners of more violence: abandonment and ill-treatment. Let's turn it into a best seller The dossier of horrors, which I also recommend and invite you, truly, to consult it and tell me how many of the hundred cases you are able to endure. [[shows a book]] [[Applauds]] For all this, we undertake two legislative tasks: a law on animal welfare and the reform of the Criminal Code to punish ill-treatment. Nothing or almost nothing to object to the second, update and reinforce the deterrence. To make, for example, that it does not come out cheaper Hanging a galgo at the end of the hunting season than calling a monarch chorizo, being it, is so necessary and logical that it almost justifies itself. [[Rumors]] I do have to object to the first thing. The drafting of the proposal on the ground closed for our group, that of the competences recognized in an organic law protected by the Constitution, which is so repeatedly invoked that we have given ourselves among all. We agree in large part with the PNV's argument, we argue that it cannot be amended in the text and we amend accordingly. We warn in this respect that, if our amendments which preserve the powers of the Generalitat and of our Parliament are not satisfactorily complied with, we must unfortunately oppose this law from seeing the light. We will then continue to develop, as we have been doing with remarkable results, our own jurisdiction. In this sense, two observations and a corollary. One, making good the planian adage, centralizing Jacobinism tempts in Spain both to the left and to the right, and here it is again observed. Two, it is unwise to legislate with the naivety of thinking that it is very good, so much so that the wicked cannot return and erase from a pen as, with so much kindness and effort, we have written. Remember the old so-called Castilian, gentlemen of the left? The Saracens arrived and we were beaten to death, which God helps the wicked when they are more than the good. Let's do it right, let's make it solid, let's make it smart. Do your lordships remember laws like divorce? Let the steps be so solid that, when the right hand returns - I pray God and the sovereign people to prevent it - it is so natural to apply the rule that they no longer dare to take steps back, as happened with the law of divorce. To achieve this will require generosity and that all of us leave our hairs in the trap of maximum approaches, in the true and solid steps forward in the recognition and protection of the rights and welfare of animals. So let us step forward, but not one backward. From this point of view, I dare, from the humility of nothing more and nothing less than 13 votes of 350, to call to discernment and purposefulness how many groups feel concerned with the purpose of this law, starting with the self-amendment of the PSOE, which is fought alone with strictly scientific criteria, as does the Association of Spanish Veterinarians Specialists in Small Animals, who in just one folio argue solidly and authoritatively. Cheer up, because we forget about the bulls and we forget about the research animals. Cheer up and get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u94	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX, whether to bleed to death to kill more than 500 dogs and to do business with it seems acceptable to them?, or to let a land of hunger and thirst die, or to jump on seventy and two piglets to kill them?, or to let a large number of sheep die for abandonment?, or to kill ten cats to death?, or to stab a cow to death?, or to starve a locked dog or to hang him to death or to burn him to calcinate and stab him?, or to burst three puppies into bottles? Is all this acceptable to you? Because that's what we're talking about and that's what we're legislating about, and you're making bad jokes. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of PP and VOX, do you think this is acceptable and justifiable? Because your amendments to the whole have sounded like that, whitewashing the mistreatment and trying to justify it. In the Socialist Group we believe that none of this is acceptable, and our commitment to protection and against abuse is clear. We collected it in the document of the 40th Congress, we collected it in the electoral programme and in the government pact, and we have demonstrated it in all the progress made: criminalization of ill-treatment as missing in 1995, the crime for missing in 2003, the creation of the Special Prosecutor's Office for the Environment that pursues these crimes, the amendment of the Criminal Code in 2015 or the amendment of the Civil Code in 2021. And now we also demonstrate it with these two laws. Today we are discussing your amendments to the whole of the preliminary draft law on animal protection and the amendment of the Criminal Code on ill-treatment, which are precisely to prevent and punish these actions, and you are submitting amendments to the whole. In fact, you don't care what we talk about. They give equal rights to women; they give equal rights to the LGBT collective; they give equal social rights or, in this case, they give equal rights to animals. We are just seeing it in today's plenary, in all the points we are debating - in all of them - you will vote against it. You, when we talk about women's rights, against; we talk about the rights of the LGBT collective, against; we talk about social progress, against; we talk about animal protection and against abuse, man, I would be very surprised that you change the vote, and obviously you will not, against. [[Applauds]] Because you're the They're so used to voting against, they don't know where the yes button is; well, all but one that occasionally gives us joys by mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presumed to first read the laws, which are important for us to read; secondly, reading understanding, which is also important, and thirdly, and most importantly, not lying about their content. And you deliberately lie just for chrissake, and that's extremely serious. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I give you, nothing, a council: you would have to read your autonomous laws and stop lying once and for all. [[Applauds]] But you know what? In front of all this they have the Socialist Group fighting for each and every one of these rights, fighting to deny a week yes and another also their bulwarks that today even the spokesman of the PP has recognized in the rostrum. As always and despite you, we will continue to move forward, we will move forward. Gentlemen of the PP and VOX, once again they try to block this government by lying and confronting the population. It passes in this law; it passes in the tax regulation in which they tried to face territories; it passes in the social model, in which they try to face workers against the entrepreneurship, and so on in so many other things. Then they tell us they're patriots. What's patriotic about lying? What is patriotic about people, about citizenship? What's patriotic about trying to cover social and economic cuts with the flag? Tell me, what's with all this patriotic stuff? Not only are they not patriots, but they show bad faith or ignorance, and either of the two options is extremely serious. Therefore, less pacotilla patriotism and more fighting for the real needs of our country. As always, its problem is the social model. We propose to legislate and advance in the real needs of the twenty-first century, and you place at the centre of political action anger and hatred. They live anchored in retreating, in cutting rights and blocking progress; they feel nostalgic of the policies of the nineteenth century. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Criminal Code will also regulate instrumental violence against animals to harm victims of gender-based violence, such as the man who stepped on the head of his partner's puppy to kill him in order to threaten or frighten him or the man who sexually abused and assaulted his partner and then, to inflict more pain, tried to drown his dog in the bathtub. Does this seem acceptable to you? This is also dealt with in these laws. [[Applauds]] And it is that when we add legislation against gender-based violence and, in this case, legislation against animal abuse, you are already hyperventilating. We Members of Parliament have an obligation to legislate according to the social demands of all citizens and, in our case, we have an obligation to legislate with a socialist and progressive view. We listen to the social needs, as demonstrated by the survey on the awareness of Spanish society about animal law, as reflected in two reports of the Fiscal Council, which few of you have named because they did not give them the reason, of course, or even the Constitutional Court. I urge you, once again, to read all these documents, because in them, in all of them, we talk about the real need and broad social demand for these kinds of laws in all the territories of our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, continue with the bubbles, continue to churn, continue to deny rights, continue to deny protection and animal abuse; the Socialist Party will continue to make progress, even in spite of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guaita. - DRAFT ORGANICAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 2/2010 OF 3 MARCH, SEXUAL HEALTH AND REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH AND THE VOLUNTARY INTERRUPTION OF THE PACKAGE. [[File number 121/000122]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u96	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Discussion of the draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy. For the introduction of the bill, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u97	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. What a piece of paper yours this morning, two debates lost in the same morning by the reactionaries of this country. [[Greetings.- Mrs.Angulo Romero: With more votes than you!]] Two opportunities on the same morning to show them that feminists are more. [[Rumors]] They oppose, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX, that in Spain women should be guaranteed their right and their effective access to the voluntary termination of pregnancy. They oppose reforming and expanding the sexual and reproductive rights of women. What a surprise. Ladies and gentlemen, control over women's bodies is the basis on which women's inequality is sustained by being so. [[Rumors]] If women can't decide about our own bodies, if we can't decide when to be mothers or how we enjoy our sexuality, if the state and society don't recognize that decision-making capacity...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u99	He told them that if society and the State do not recognize that decision-making capacity and is structured in their institutional architecture to guarantee, then we cannot develop our projects of life in freedom. On the contrary, guaranteeing the sexual and reproductive rights of women who are part of the fundamental right to health and doing so, especially in times of crisis and difficulty like this, is a necessary condition for ensuring the full citizenship of all women and the full exercise of all our social, economic and political rights. What do you think happens, ladies and gentlemen, when a country does not guarantee the right to abortion? Do you really believe that women stop aborting, that voluntary terminations of pregnancy are reduced? No, ladies and gentlemen, banning or hindering the right to abortion does not make abortions disappear; banning or hindering the right to abortion puts women's lives at risk. What do they propose to women who decide to interrupt their pregnancies? That they go to clandestine clinics, that they put their lives at risk, that they only abort those who can afford it, that they can go to another country? With these amendments you are defending putting women's lives at risk and, even worse, not all of them alike. [[Rumors]] They are defending to put at risk, especially, the lives of the precarious women, of whom they have the least. Of those who can not miss work or pay a trip of several days to do in another country or in another autonomous community what they could not do in this country. Today they are here to defend the machismo and the classism to which we are unfortunately so accustomed. What's the matter with you, ladies and gentlemen? I'm honestly asking. What is the problem with women enjoying our sexual freedom? Look, this law proposes that we strengthen the knowledge of the different methods of contraception and barrier between the population, precisely to avoid unwanted pregnancies and also to combat sexually transmitted infections and to have, in the end, safe sex. This law proposes a co-responsible contraception, that responsibility does not lie exclusively with women and that we strengthen public investment in state-of-the-art male contraceptives. This law guarantees the mandatory sale of the day after pill in all pharmacies and its free dispensation in health centres and other specialized centres. This seems wrong to you because your aim with these amendments is not to reduce unwanted pregnancies or the transmission of sexually transmitted infections. Its goal is that women cannot freely enjoy our sexuality. Sexual freedom is a right that you despise. Look, this law also proposes that when a woman becomes pregnant without wishing to become pregnant, she may terminate her pregnancy at the public hospital nearest her home. This seems wrong to you, perhaps you prefer that you can only abort those who can afford it, those who can pay it, that clandestine abortions are carried out in our country or that abortion is not a right, but a slab of guilt and shame for women. You tell women that if they get pregnant they can't decide, that they have to resign to live a life they don't want or risk dying in the attempt. You say that a 16 - or 17 - year - old does not have the capacity to decide for herself whether to interrupt her pregnancy, but you want to force her to assume the responsibility of being a mother for the rest of her life. The right to abortion seems wrong to you because your goal is not to reduce unwanted pregnancies, but that we women cannot freely enjoy our sexuality. Sexual freedom is a right that you despise. Look, this law also proposes that if a woman decides to become pregnant, she may have the necessary specialized support during childbirth and postpartum, including a leave from week thirty-nine that is not deducted from maternity leave. This law proposes that if a woman suffers an unwanted abortion, she should be guaranteed the specialized accompaniment she may need. All this seems wrong to you because your goal is not to support women who decide to be mothers, but that women cannot freely enjoy our sexuality. Sexual freedom is a right that you despise. Ladies and gentlemen, they want to blame us, ashamed, unable to decide on our own bodies. I must insist, it's you less, the feminists are more, they're losing. [[Applauds]] We are more who want to be free and own our bodies, we are more who want to live in a country that recognizes our right to be free and own our own bodies and lives. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you something else, this debate you have lost; you are going to lose it today, but you have already lost it in 2014. I know you don't like democratic memory, but listen to me, remember. In 2014, when Minister Gallardón committed the recklessness of promoting the restriction of the right to abortion in our country, Spain turned its back on him. 86% of those surveyed by Metroscopia at that time believed that every pregnant woman should have the right to decide freely, more than 75% believed that the reform they tried to implement, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, was not necessary. I would like to honour in this House the women who organized themselves in assemblies to defend the right to abortion, who turned our country into a freedom train defending our right to decide on our own bodies; also the woman so mistreated by you, Minister of Equality, Bibiana Aido, who was able to carry out that abortion law, who feels the solid pillars of this new law that we are debating today. [[Applauds]] I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the feminist movement killed its minister Gallardón. Since then, they have not assumed that we feminists are more and that you are in a minority. This new abortion law allows 16- and 17-year-old girls and women with disabilities to regain a right that they had and that you have taken away from them: that of deciding on their own bodies and that the State should recognize that they are the ones who decide, or do not share that decision with their parents. The State recognizes women's ability to decide and also tells them that it respects this decision and that it does not doubt their ability to make it, so we also eliminate the three days of compulsory reflection before practicing a voluntary termination of pregnancy. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, we feminists are more. Ladies and gentlemen, this law also wants to guarantee sex education for all children and young people in our country. It's a right and we're late. 'Bitch, get out of your burrows like rabbits. You're a bunch of whores. I promise you'll fuck them all in the hood. Come on, Ahúja!'. Do you not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these young people could have learned another kind of sexual culture in schools? You don't think so, do you? This, ladies and gentlemen, is rape culture, sexual terror. Use intimidation and fear so that women don't have room to decide. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is cured with sexual education. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, who does it bother that there is sex education in this country? Who can it seem wrong for a creature to know how to identify a sexual assault and know how to ask for help? Sexual violence against children remains terribly invisible in our society, and aggressors have very high levels of impunity. According to a study by Save the Children, in 84% of the cases the aggressors are men known to boys and girls, that is, men they trust to a greater or lesser extent. How can you refuse to let children from the earliest ages know how to identify such violence and have tools to ask for help? Who can it seem wrong for young people to learn to prevent sexually transmitted infections? Who can it seem wrong for us to talk about co-responsibility in contraception? According to the study recently published by the Women's Institute 'The sexuality of young women in the Spanish context', hormonal procedures, such as the pill, ring or patches, have a 54% degree of implementation, and within the arguments for their use highlights the women's own decision to fear the irresponsibility of the other person. This is in line with the view of 27.7%, which states that the application of contraceptive and preventive methods is mainly a part of them for women. We also need sex education so that the responsibility for contraception does not lie exclusively with women's bodies. Who can trouble us to educate in schools about the importance of good treatment, that treating well, is right, and that treating badly, is wrong? Who does it bother that boys, girls and youth know that there are different sexual orientations, different gender identities, and that it's okay to be who you are or that you can't make fun of a partner for being a lesbian or having two dads? Who can trouble our country's childhood and adolescence to learn about the diversity of bodies, to learn that all bodies are normal and that they don't have to feel guilt or shame for the shape and size of their bodies? Especially in such an image-centered society, where the disorders of eating behavior, anxiety or depression associated with the rejection of one's own body for not responding to established beauty canons grow, to whom can it bother that we educate in diversity and respect? Who is bothered that sex education is a right, as recognized in the Convention on the Rights of the Child? Ladies and gentlemen, why does the right to sex education bother you so much? Ladies and gentlemen, learning about sexuality takes place throughout your life, whether you like it or not. This is not a debate about whether we want our children to learn about sexuality, because they will do the same, whether we want it or not. The question is whether we are prepared to have violent pornography on the basis of this learning, whose average age of onset of consumption in Spain is eight years, and whether they are looking for life to learn, or whether we consider that for this learning we must give our children adequate educational support to their age, level of development, questions and interests. I'll give you another piece of information. In this study mentioned to them, 70% of students and high school students claim that the sexual education they have received has not been helpful. It is they and they who demand sex education, because they are aware of their importance. The young people of this country, ladies and gentlemen, have the priorities and needs much clearer than you. Perhaps you prefer a childhood and adolescence that grows in ignorance and shame, whose sexual socialization remains in the hands of violent pornography; a society where free and secure sexuality is a privilege of a few and not a right of all people. But I would like you to be aware of what you stand for: the absence of sex education in schools only benefits aggressors and those who need impunity, silence, guilt and fear. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill guarantees the right to sex education as a basis for the full exercise of sexual and reproductive rights, and in addition, this bill advances in the recognition of new rights. For the first time in our country and as a pioneer, we recognize menstrual health as part of the right to health of women and people who menstruate. For the first time it is recognized for all of them the possibility of having menstrual discharges by incapacitating and painful rules, so that these women do not have to get up with unbearable pains several days each month, fill their body with pills and go to work as if nothing happened, because the rules remain in our society something that is not spoken with normality and often associated with guilt or shame. Ladies and gentlemen, thirty-nine years ago, just on 6 October, as today, the Congress of Deputies approved in this House the partial decriminalisation of abortion on three grounds. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, thirty-nine years ago you voted against this law; thirty-nine years later you did not understand anything and did not make any progress. You are here, after almost forty years, with this amendment to the whole to express your opposition to women having the power to decide on their lives. That is precisely why we are reacting to the conquests of feminist rights, ladies and gentlemen, of not accepting, of not recognizing, of not celebrating that women are the owners of our lives. You do not want women to have power over our own lives and therefore not to participate in equality in society, because feminist rights are a pillar of the process of democratic deepening of our country which inevitably challenges the privileges that you defend. It is feminist rights, ladies and gentlemen, which best show that you are reactionary, that you want a society where democracy is not the norm. Estaley is the result of decades of feminist struggle: of the Eleven of Basauri; of Justa Montero; of the assemblies; of the Freedom Train; of the women who have aborted in hiding; of those who have helped them, of the health personnel who, sometimes since the abandonment of institutions, have guaranteed the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy; of those who every day in our schools promote equal education and provide sex education. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law so that all women can live in freedom: sex education to decide, contraceptives not to abort and safe abortion not to die. Let women's struggle live! [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Common We can-Galicia In Common We can, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Two amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund and one amendment to the entire alternative text. In defence of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u101	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important and silent reform, such as the one that has to do with the right to abortion, and let me tell you that it is a perfect example of how on one side and on the other of the House, rights and freedom are being disturbed. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens today bring an amendment to the whole of this law, but not to prevent this subject from being discussed, but to ensure, precisely, that no one uses the abortion debate to collate suideology. And what a coincidence that everyone's doing it. I shall start with the other amendments to the full refund. PP and VOX do not want a debate in this House on women's reproductive rights. We are not surprised, again conservatives do not want to discuss how to expand women's rights. Therefore, before women's right to terminate their pregnancy, PP and VOX propose the decay of the law itself. Their conservative conception of women's bodies has led some to present this law to the Constitutional and others to talk about the culture of death. Liberals do our job, and what we do is work with those aspects of the law that we don't like. Therefore, what we want is for this Congress to debate a comprehensive law, but we do not want to face the right of women to interrupt their pregnancy to the right of different family models, which is what the Government does. We believe that there is a lack of humanity on the part of the PSOE and Podemos, which they have shown, when they criminalize the families of the surrogate pregnancy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are joined by a group of families who have made up their family through the surrogate pregnancy. I think we should be ashamed to look at them and tell them they're not a family to us. I think we should be ashamed to think that those children might perhaps have fewer rights than those of the rest of the families. I find that totally outrageous. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, what you intend to do here is not only serious and anti-progressive, because it goes against people's rights, but you have tried to cover it up. Taking advantage of the Pisuerga pass through Valladolid, they draw up a law on the reproductive rights of women, against the legitimate right of many women to be mothers by the way they choose. You want to pretend that there are no families with the need to resort to surrogate pregnancy, but it is not true, ladies and gentlemen, there are families who resort to unselfish surrogate pregnancy to form their family. You are denying the love that many parents make through surrogate pregnancy, the love they feel for their children, who are as much their children as mine are. [[Applauds]] That is why the liberals, who defend the right to love, live and form a family as everyone wants, have wanted to give these families a voice and visibility. And I want you all to do it now, to do an exercise in looking at the rostrum and telling these people, that you have been able to fulfill your dream of being parents by surrogate pregnancy with so many difficulties, that you want to bring forward legislation that forbids it. This is the exercise you have to do, look at these people and tell them what the difference is between you and your own families. Why can we form a family and they can't? Do you dare to look them in the face and tell them that they do not want their children, just as you do your own? Do you dare to look at them and tell them that your children must have fewer rights than the rest of your families? It seems to me that it is prejudicing, differentiating and does not look with equality and freedom at all models of family. In addition, there are one hundred thousand families with children born by surrogate pregnancy in Spain, one hundred thousand families to which you permanently turn your back and have condemned them to make their dream of being parents a nightmare of legal insecurity and uncertainty. There is no right that those who only want to form a family are being denied it. The consequences of lack of regulation and of a government that only criminalizes this group of families are what makes us defend them and give them our full support. As I know some of the arguments that you can use, I want to explain to you our proposal well, because they also tend to distort reality. The surrogate will not replace other forms of conception, because it will only be used when all other reproductive techniques have been exhausted, when there is no risk to the pregnant mother and there is a reasonable chance of success. Nor does the surrogate carry that bubble that sounds around that it's about paying for having a child. The proposal that defends Citizens prohibits profit or commerciality, and the only compensation that is allowed is to cover expenses of inconvenience, displacement or loss of profits. And no, ladies and gentlemen, neither can anyone be a pregnant mother. Recognised requirements, such as age, economic status, nationality or inability to be recidivized, are laid down. What we have achieved is a regulation that allows this process to be carried out in better conditions of legal and health security, both for the pregnant woman and for the subrogants, something that does not exist today and only causes more problems for the families who want to be parents and for the children. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you always do the same: when something you don't like, you ban it; when something doesn't fit your vision, you ban it. It happens to us with the regularization of prostitution and now it happens to us not to recognize all models of family. This is what happens to us, but Citizens do what they do is open the doors, be guarantor, regular and work for the guarantee of rights. For us, the option is not to tell a woman that she cannot help a family to a couple of friends to be able to form her family, it is never to deny it; for us, the option is not to tell a couple of homosexual men that they are doomed to not having children because of the inability of the system to manage, because they do not manage their reality; for us, the option is not to tell a couple that they have already undergone various assisted reproduction techniques that they have given up and that they will never be able to fulfill their dream, that is not our option but that it is regular, moreover, based on a number of basic pillars. First of all, there is the altruistic nature of surrogate pregnancy, allowing women to consciously decide freely to conceive so that subrogating parents can do so, that they do not pose a risk to women at any time and that women are not subjected to this type of practice only bound by their socio-economic status, let alone, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, we want to give legal certainty offered through a contract with clear requirements, with obligations for both parties, with legal guarantees for different cases that can occur throughout the process. And, thirdly, we want transparency: to create a register of pregnant women attached to the national register of donors, in order to have the highest level of clarity for pregnant women and subrogating parents, and we also include a sanctioning regime to ensure compliance with these guarantees. This is the proposal we have before this House. In addition, in Citizens we also want to make a doubly liberal proposal, because in addition to guaranteeing the freedom of all women who want to have a child in an unselfish way, we also defend the freedom of those who do not want to be mothers to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy. Therefore, I have no problem saying that I share the project in the area of voluntary termination of pregnancy, of course we share it. We want women to be able to do so in the nearest hospital and the extension of gestational permits to ensure better work reconciliation. We also share - and you know what Citizens have proposed - the need to include as sexual violence against women cases of forced abortions, sterilizations and forced contraception. We cannot, however, agree to extend the right of children between the ages of 16 and 17 to interrupt their pregnancy without any information to their parents. In short, we are the only liberals who are here defending the true freedom of women to decide on their body. We are the only ones who say yes to extending the freedoms of voluntary termination of pregnancy and who also say yes to extending the freedoms of gestation by substitution of altruism. We are the only ones who advocate that every woman decide what she wants to do with her body. We're the only ones in the House, no matter who weighs it. [[Applauds]] We defend freedom in the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and freedom to form a family model, because we respect and defend the freedom and equality of all people. Faced with that freedom-driven bet, we have two blocks, on the left and on the right, which insist on telling women when they can or cannot be mothers. Sometimes I reflect and wonder: are we faced with progress in equality or with setbacks? Because if we have to impose on women a morality of what is right or what is wrong in each of the legislative projects we manage, sometimes when I think about it, I don't know if we are facing progress or setbacks. We have it clear, the only person who can decide whether a woman is a mother or not, and we're going to keep working to get it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. Mrs Méndez Monasterio also has the floor to defend her amendment by the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u103	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the law we amend is to strengthen the right to abortion, considering itself to be an absolutely banal conduct, the banality of taking off your own child and imposing that culture of supposed normality from very early ages without allowing dissent. A right that really is a counter-right because it can never be considered a right to kill a human being. [[Applauds]] In the face of any doubt or problem, it cancels the possibility of a child being born. They eliminate three days of reflection and information on aids and alternatives and even parental support for minors. That's their freedom, real state violence. She's a real savage. Sanitaries who are faithful to their professional vocation must be registered on a list to defend their right to conscientious objection. It'll be the stigmatized ones. We say that they must be those who are not faithful to their profession and want to practice abortions that must be registered on that list. [[Applauds]] We oppose women to consider themselves chronically ill with the treatment they do about menstruation. As for the surrogate gestation, the proposed modification seems to us to be a hair removal. They cannot argue against these practices that cosmify women and make the child a subject of commerce, and only eliminate the advertising of these agencies. If they were consistent, they should have prevented women from enslaving themselves to be pregnant for others and an act deemed null in our country from having legal effects. The regulation of abortion as a right is the last reason that measures the health of a society. Respect for democratic values or not is the issue that shakes its foundations, the one that determines its justice, the one that makes us consider when a human society has ceased to be, it is the one that determines decadence or progress. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the subject that defines all of us and, fundamentally, this government. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not defend the life of the most helpless, the life of that human being as well as ours, with which only the time of its development differentiates us, if we do not do our best to ensure that those lives are not destroyed in the womb of their mother, can you tell me what we are doing here? What have we come to defend? Ladies and gentlemen, what have we come to defend? [[Applauds]] At the same time as this debate is taking place, this Congress itself is debating the value of the life of an animal to be protected. Value and protection that a human being is denied for the purpose of humanizing the animal and dehumanizing the human being. They do it the same day, with total provocation. It's a real challenge and a bloodbath. Ladies and gentlemen, this extreme undermines the most elementary principle of justice. And politics, ladies and gentlemen, must only look for what is right. Following the classics, I would say to you: if we eliminate justice, what would the state distinguish from a large band of bandits? The consideration of the value of a unique and unrepeatable life from its conception is the great challenge of a civilization and, in particular, of our nation. We're killing ourselves, destroying ourselves. We're killing ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. We're killing ourselves. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, many lives are at stake, but democratic values are also at stake. He quoted Norberto Bobbio: 'If the rule of majority is to be regarded as a democratic mechanism, it must be subject to certain necessary limits'. Within these limits, there is no doubt the right to life, which must always be recognized by the State and which it does not grant. They are the basic principles of a democracy. Not recognizing it thus, inexorably leads us to totalitarianism. The right to life of each and every one of us cannot be decided by consensus, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is not consensus that decides whether life has value or not, it is not consensus. The time-limits law adopted in 2010, which introduced abortion as a right, did so against the constitutional doctrine, which had already ruled on the supreme value of life and that nasciturus is a constitutionally protected legal good. It responded to the will of a radical feminism whose goal was to culturally modify our society, prey to international organizations, and to further normalize that conduct, as it has been, thanks to an indolent president like Rajoy, and over time. Constitutional doctrine, the spirit of our Constitution, our tradition in our culture, would force the Constitutional Court to declare the Aided Law unconstitutional. The consequences after twelve years of inaction are absolutely irreparable. This radical feminism not only harms the unborn. In the face of a drama like this, women are left alone, and considering a right as a good thing, it will be the only way to be offered. If they have the sensitivity to listen, they will know the truth in all their cruelty. She's never been so unprotected. According to you, as motherhood enslaves you, you must not protect it, making it the greatest victim of this ill feminism. By the way, minister, last week we asked you about the sentence you have sentenced abortionists for cheating on women and hiding that abortion has consequences. But he did not answer me, he could not answer me, he was removed in his seat, because in his fictitious and false account he cannot recognize that it has consequences and, in this way, also from the Government he deceives women. [[Applauds]] Let's go back to the law. Ladies and gentlemen, to animalise human beings, what better instrument than indoctrination than treating children as animals? They will be educated in the promotion of abortion and contraception, based on so-called sexual and reproductive rights, legitimizing sexual liberating, including paedophilia, according to the statements of Minister Montero on the relevance of affective-sexual relations of minors with third parties with prior consent. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr Majoral Perales: What a shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, abortion is the result of the exaltation of the sexual revolution in its most devastating extremes. Ladies and gentlemen, paedophilia too. [[Rumors.-Various Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-Common Podemos-Galicia in Common: It is not valid!]] This is simply perverse. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u105	To awaken sexual instincts without having developed the brain will analyze them and turn them into slaves of their psychophysical tendencies. [[Major Perales: What a shame!]] I could give you a lot of details, but I don't have time. [[Major Perales: What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u106	Mr. Mayor, silence, please. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u107	Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, you should reflect. You should reflect and put the video in which you will be able to hear the minister. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]] We must reflect very seriously, ladies and gentlemen. We can only choose to submit to this cultural offensive or react, defending our convictions, our tradition and our culture. At this point, there are no half inks, because, if in the face of this offensive that the Spaniards are suffering with an unprecedented state violence, full of lies, one gets profiled and does not oppose convictions, our nation will not be able to survive, and the culture of globalism and death will end up triumphing. Many of you are trapped by the prevailing globalism and relativism, the hour of secularism or the possibilityism that wrongly overwhelms the moral principle of lesser evil. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said the need to defend our convictions, rather than beliefs. Our party is not a confessional party, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary to believe in God - although it is very convenient - to have the conviction that the value of a life is the one that must inform a fair rule of law, a human society and an honest legislator. [[Applauds]] Deep down, ladies and gentlemen, it's a titanic struggle. There are two antagonistic models: who defends the basic humanism of Western culture and all others. The globalist culture, full of the ally of cultural Marxism, and the humanist culture of Christian roots that made the West great, cannot coexist in the same way that a democratic state cannot coexist with communism. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, all ideologies stand up against the humanism of Christian roots. Not in vain, the European modernity that has given the world the democratic ideal and human rights take on the very values of its Christian heritage. Nietzsche's 'God is dead' has given way to 'we will be as gods'. The consideration of the person with a value in himself or herself in relation to other considerations. Basically, ladies and gentlemen, the question is always the same: rebel against the natural order, against the very being of man. It is the rebellion of the creature against its own creature being, the abandonment of philosophical reason and truth that makes us free. That is why its consequences are so serious and why, for those who want to annihilate our future, it is so decisive. Why are they so afraid of VOX? We give them a lot of fear, so they insult us, call us fascists, extreme right and laugh. We give them much fear because we have come to tell the truth, and the truth bothers them, bothers them, creates difficulties and confronts them with their own reality; because we have come to denounce that their progress is lies, ladies and gentlemen, that they are puppets of elites that lead us to destruction; because we have come to say that abortion is to kill a human being and a drama for women and to defeat their empty slogans; because we have come to say that women are left alone and that they have never been so unprotected, so deceived and so lack of support and humanity; because we have come to adhere to life from conception to their natural death, and because we have come to protect pregnant women, the natural family, for the social function they perform, and our children from their perversions. That's what scares them so much. We scare them because their weapon is the lie and that lie succumbs to reason and word. We scare them because that's our strength. We fear them because they know that we can build a nation upon the truth, and that will make us indestructible. Don't ask us, ladies and gentlemen, none of VOX what we propose so that you can abort as if it were something good. Ask us, ladies and gentlemen, what are we going to do so that a woman can have a child with complete freedom. Then we'll answer them. [[Applauds]] We, ladies and gentlemen, care for and defend women, we do not blame them. To whom we blame it is to all of you We have come to open horizons that were hidden, and this is what scares you so much. [[Pointing to the whole Chamber]] We have not come to impose anything, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to propose that another path is possible. Now it is, ladies and gentlemen. Now I do. The introduction of the absolutely irregular right to abortion in the United States' XIV amendment has, fortunately, been reversed, although it has taken fifty years. We'll take less. Faced with the culture of death, VOX defends life from conception to natural extinction. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Bravo! . Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Mendez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for this sitting today contains nothing more and nothing less than four bills, tabled by two ministries, Social Rights and Equality, both headed by Unite Podemos, and have, in addition to their ministerial origin, other common features, which are the controversial treatment of very sensitive issues and which affect decisively women, the lives of individuals and families and their poor treatment by the urgency procedure, decided by these two ministers and endorsed by the Bureau of the House. The urgency procedure is the act of parliamentary processing of a rule with a law rank whose working time is reduced by half. What does that decision imply? The shortening of the time limits, which means that the work of transforming the laws through the amendments that we put forward by the opposition groups. It also implies the impossibility of meeting with civil society organizations, which have an opinion that should be heard and channelled by parliamentary groups and that we know that the ministry has neither listened nor attended to. [[Applauds]] In addition, it implies the absence of reports from the consultative bodies, which have not had sufficient time to prepare them. There is one aspect that cannot go unnoticed and that is common to the entire Government, and it is the constant disregard for the legislative activity of Congress and the Senate with the use and abuse, up to inconceivable extremes so far, of the royal decree law, which is brought to the House quickly, whose processing as a bill is voted on and then passes to sleep the eternal dream in the fridge, with energy efficiency and adjustable thermostat and whose key controls the Government. Since the Royal Decree-Law cannot deal with the rights and freedoms of citizens, as is the case with the texts being debated today, the same objective is sought to steal debate and parliamentary work through urgency. We denounce and condemn this practice, to which we have been subject since the beginning of the pandemic, in March 2020. [[Applauds]] It is a practice that gags us and prevents us from performing our constitutional function, the legislative function, in a correct way. According to the Minister of Equality, in times of crisis the rights of women and the LGBTI community are the first to be questioned, which is why the Government must meet their needs and stand by these people. There follows the supposed urgency of this bill, of course unjustified, simply invented, and incorporated and accepted without the slightest objection. Madam Minister, do not treat us as the Spanish and the Members of this House, because there is no urgency to justify the need for the bill to reform Organic Law 2/2010. [[Applauds]] It is an unnecessary and inappropriate bill, which does not respond to any urgency. The primary reason why you should have waited and stopped your usual method of work - to invent a problem that would supposedly affect Spanish women and then save their lives with the solution to that non-existent problem - is that the law you amend is appealed to the Constitutional Court, and it has not yet ruled on its constitutionality. If there are doubts about the constitutionality of the previous text it seems, at least, reckless and far from the minimal prudence expected of the legislator, that is, of you, Minister... [[The Minister for Equality utters words that are not perceived]] He wants to tell me something, but he's told me before on several occasions. Thank you. [[Applauds]] As I said, it seems, at the very least, reckless and far removed from the minimal prudence expected of the legislator, that is, from you, Minister, to go beyond running unnecessary risks and without taking into account the serious consequences that your lack of caution can cause. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the reality behind this busy and urgent congress tomorrow is not only the imprudence of the ministry, but also the fear and conviction that the legislature is coming to an end and that if you do not deal with all this in a hurry, you will not arrive in time. That is why they bring this text to the House without the reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council, the Council of State, the Bioethics Commission, scientific societies and medical and health professional colleges. Nor was the reports of the FEMP and the Labour Commissions, which had been expressly requested, expected to arrive, while other institutions were not even required to pronounce on the draft law. How can such a text come to Congress, with no consensus, only with the reports of the Spanish Data Protection Agency and the Economic and Social Council? The Ministry's explanations of the lack of reports in the documentation provided are childish, to say the least with education, when it does not directly attack the independence of judicial bodies. You say: it would be beneficial for the project to have the report of the Council of State, but we do not ask for it because of the heavy workload of that body. I repeat, minister, do not think of us as panfilos and save yourself the same explanations about the absence of the reports, which, on the other hand, we do not doubt that they would have the same fate as the fifty-two allegations that the Autonomous Communities of Madrid, Galicia and Castile and León sent to them: they were obviated; not one of them was taken into account in the text submitted. [[Applauds]] The health professionals, who are the most affected by this bill, which has been drafted without seeking their opinion, have shown their displeasure and also their concern about those issues that affect them most, such as the polemic registration of conscientious objectors and the intention of the project to have abortions practiced in public health centres. The College Medical Organization stated that the registration of objectors does not bring any benefit and that it would be more useful to register the professionals willing to carry them out, as it may lead to the handling of information that harms the professionals who object, which would be a serious crime. He added that if the Administration disposes of abortion in its portfolio of services, it is its responsibility to facilitate it, but under no circumstances can the responsibility be transferred to the professionals. At the same time, the expression 'black list' begins to open up among professionals because of the similarity of this proposal to others which the two parties in the government resort too often in various areas. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember what we have heard and read these past few days regarding certain lists of Tertullians who should or should not participate in public television opinion programmes? These are alarming precedents that we would not like to see repeated in the health field because of this bill. The text also seeks more abortions in public centres, where, despite the years, the percentage of those who have been involved does not exceed 10%. Madam Minister, the doctors, for the most part, continue to show surchance at abortion in this way. You cannot make this practice compulsory in all public institutions, because it obviates the constitutional right to conscientious objection inherent in the person and with a level of protection similar to that of fundamental rights. Questioning the objection, as you do in this bill, is an unjust and disrespectful attack on the medical profession. The General Council of Pharmacists has also claimed the right to conscientious objection, as the current wording does not include it, in particular with regard to its role of dispensing the postcoital pill. Considers that it will be irresponsible, at least, to offer a product approved by the Spanish Medicines Agency for exceptional use free of charge and without medical or pharmaceutical control. This is also a clear attack on the freedom of conscience of the pharmacist, recognized by the Constitutional Court in a 2015 ruling, in which it admitted the right to pharmaceutical objection in the same line as the conscientious objection of health professionals. You try, moreover, to minister, to slide a In Spain, with the legislation currently in force, when the conditions under which abortion can be performed are met, there is no cost to the patient. Therefore, it is a political interference of the ministry that sums up in this text animating aversion to health professionals, which is intended to double in the exercise of their legitimate constitutional right to conscientious objection. Also in relation to health activity, the draft law provides for the disappearance of the three days of reflection currently in force and the obligation to provide information on alternatives to abortion and the aid and measures implemented to support motherhood. They determine that this information will only be delivered to anyone who specifically requests it. It seems to us, minister, a great mistake. For a woman to decide in an informed manner, it is desirable to have such information available and to establish, in addition, a minimum period for analysing such documentation, in which, on the other hand, no value judgement is established. But the most incredible thing about this bill is that it trivializes its goal, mixing such an important issue as abortion with many other measures of all kinds, in a bazaar way, which allows them to assert that it improves the health of women - for example, of pregnant women at the end of their pregnancy - through temporary incapacity. The Economic and Social Council has shown its perplexity over the relationship between pregnancy and disease, which has long been overtaken by legislation. Pregnancy, Minister, is not a disease and is not answered to it in labor law with a break, with other benefits in the system that are much more appropriate. With regard to what the bill refers to as the right to temporary special disability by medical cadres deriving from incapacitating rules, some members of this wing of the Government have already taken a stand against, labeling this measure as stigmatizing for women. You put the cry in the sky against your government partner and again revealed to us a problem that we had not detected, that women feel ashamed or guilty about talking about menstruation, and that it will end. We will have a new right thanks to United We can, the right not to be ashamed of finding ourselves wrong during the rule. They again save our lives by focusing on a non-existent problem, and require us to thank them for solving it, when it exists only in their minds, without taking into account, moreover, the negative effects that the definition of this imaginary problem and its solution in the incorporation and permanence of women in the labour market may have. Not to mention the difficulties in maintaining precise confidentiality in relation to the cause of the casualty, as it belongs to the field of health and is data of an extremely confidential nature. Minister, these measures are already being used in cases that are necessary; their provincial intervention, once again, is unnecessary. Another great innovation in the text is the implementation of good treatment in obstetric and gynecological medicine. This definition replaces the previous definition of obstetric violence, which caused the general indignation of medical professionals. Perhaps you do not know that the supreme principle of medicine since its formulation, around the year 460 before Christ, by Hippocrates of Cos is that if you cannot do good, first of all do no harm. Madam Minister, sometimes when we hear your bold statements or those of your eloquent Secretary of State, as yesterday in the Equality Commission, we wonder which planet you have fallen from. Why do we have to endure the misfortune and the gloom that supposes that you are at the forefront of something that is obviously very great for you? And this, minister, is not only your responsibility, also for those who put it there. Abortion is...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u110	Mrs. González, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u111	... is one more of the challenges of our society - it has ended, president - to which you cannot and do not know how to respond adequately. On such a sensitive subject, linked to personal beliefs, there are different opinions and sensitivities, but there is one aspect we all agree on: voluntary termination of pregnancy must be an exception. To achieve this, we must build a system of maternity protection, with a sufficient set of measures with the necessary financial resources. This bill is a faithful image of the distorting concave mirror used by the Ministry of Equality to look at the reality of Spanish society, that of the spurt. For all this, we ask...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u113	...the return of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs González. It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Ros Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u115	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin my speech today by showing the strong revulsion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group over what happened at a major school in Madrid. [[Applauds]] No more machismo! Enough with the insults! No more violence against women! Rights and freedoms are not given; rights and freedoms are won and, when they are won, we must fight to maintain and expand them and fight those who want to cut them. Therefore, no, no, and no, and three times not to these amendments to the whole, that what they claim is precisely that, to cut a right as fundamental for women as it is to decide freely about our own body, motherhood and sexuality. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the history of humanity is the history of the ceaseless conquest of rights and freedoms, and this is how Spain has changed over the past 40 years, since the first socialist victory in a general election, and to those who have benefited most from this progress we, women, have benefited, despite the right and the right. Today we are discussing three amendments to the whole, two returns amendments and an alternative text to the Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption Act. The amendments ratify that idea that you are never and never expected when it comes to women moving forward and empowering themselves. Of course, I never imagined that I would rise again to this rostrum to continue defending and claiming the same rights for which our grandmothers and mothers went out more than forty years ago. Then they demanded freedom to decide on their own body and on their own sexuality. We paramos, we decided, they said then, and it seems that today we still have to shout at him. [[Applauds]] With their amendments to the whole they want to turn us back to that Spain in black and white, to that Spain in which the women were protected and had to ask permission for almost everything. Well, they're not gonna make it. We in the Socialist Party are very clear: not a step back. With their return amendments they want to leave women unable to decide and take away a social conquest of years ago as is the right to abortion. Of course, what are the times when we still have to demand the obvious, because the obvious is that motherhood is an option, not an obligation; the obvious is that this reform of the law does not force any woman to abort, but it protects and protects even more those who want to do so and those who do not. Ladies and gentlemen, sexual and reproductive rights have always been and are a priority for socialist governments: in 1985 we decriminalized abortion as President Felipe González; in 2006 we adopted a law of assisted reproduction techniques that banned the so-called maternity by pregnancy with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero in Moncloa; in 2010 with Zapatero and Minister Bibiana Aido, we adopted a law of deadlines, a law to the international avant-garde; in 2022, with a Government chaired by Pedro Sánchez, we promoted and approved the reform of the Criminal Code to criminalize harassment of women who go to clinics to interrupt their pregnancy, and now, with this reform of the 2010 Act, we came to consolidate and deepen the sexual and reproductive rights of women even further. Like the 2010 Act, women decide, society respects, the State guarantees a right and the Church does not intervene. [[Applauds]] This reform finally redresss the injustice committed by the People's Party when in 2015 it abolished the right of young women aged 16 and 17 to decide freely. The exclusion of young women from this right was a political responsibility, because it directly involved them in a clandestine abortion. The Socialist Party is back on track: then we said that when we re-govern it, we'll get it back, and here we are, getting a right back. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, please note that today in Spain a 16-year-old woman can undergo or refuse chemotherapy or, for example, decide whether or not to operate at an open heart. That same girl can work, decide if she has sex and can get married. However, for the right and the right, this woman, this 16- or 17-year-old woman, cannot freely decide whether she wants to be a mother or not. With this reform, access to abortion is guaranteed in public institutions, conscientious objection is regulated, a layoff is incorporated for women who interrupt their pregnancy, voluntarily or not, and a temporary layoff is created, prepared, at week thirty-nine of gestation. Ladies and gentlemen, preparation, pregnancy, motherhood, that is also what this reform is about. With this reform we guarantee the latest generation of contraception and recover the public funding that the People's Party eliminated. With this reform, affective-sexual education is guaranteed. Yes, sex education, but do not alter, educate from respect, equality, tolerance, diversity and consent, with professionalism and rigour, rigour and professionalism, which some Members seem to need. It is an education to prevent unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases and infections. It is a sex education for all our children and young people away from the prejudices imposed by creeds. I will sum it up in a very simple phrase to understand: religion in churches and education in classrooms. And, look, I was on the Commission where the Minister of Equality intervened. The interpretation you make of your words indicates that you have a very dirty mind. Make him look at it. [[Applauds]] With this reform, it is recognized that the rental wombs are a form of violence against women. They are prohibited from advertising and campaigns are carried out on the illegality of these practices. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you have based your amendment of alternative text precisely on regulating this type of violence against women. Look, women's bodies are much more than mere reproductive machines; women's bodies are neither bought nor sold for birth. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party, let us talk about the urgency of this law. Of course it's urgent. It is urgent because women's rights and freedoms are always urgent - we have been a long time behind - but you lie, because the urgent procedure does not leave any room for debate or transparency or participation. Many laws have been dealt with in this House as a matter of urgency, the deadline for amendments has been extended and, once the presentation has been made, appearances of associations and collectives have been held. They know, they don't lie. And, please, have more political decency and do not arrogate in exclusivity the defense of life, as they do with other things. No more cynicism. Life stands for itself by voting in this House, week after week, laws and initiatives to help those who need it most, and you have voted no. All of them are born to those you leave week after week. [[Applauds]] No more hypocrisy. Not a lesson of yours to support life when you want to subdue women's lives. Stop frivolating with such a personal subject as a woman's decision to abort. Do you really think a woman does it for pleasure? And, to combat demagogy, I repeat that this reform does not force anything, it only extends rights so that women can freely decide to be mothers or not, to decide how, when and with whom to be mothers. That's the difference between you and us. The Socialist Party is always about to expand rights for all and for all; you are only to deny them. Motherhood is so intimate that it cannot be imposed on a woman. Stop protecting yourselves, for no one better than a woman to freely decide what to do with her body. The corporal. On February 1, 2015, the so-called freedom train arrived in Madrid. Thousands of people, men and women, went out to the street to tell the right, loud and clear, that we do not want any setbacks in our decision to freely choose to be mothers. Then they lost that train, even a minister had to resign. Seven years later they have a new chance. You have five minutes in your next speech to announce from this rostrum that you withdraw all your amendments. The Socialists and the Socialists have never got off that train. We have led that train alongside the feminist movement and we will continue to fight to defend women's freedom and rights, as we have always done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Ros. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u117	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the speeches of the House, both those on the one hand and those on the other really want to decide, establish and limit the rights that each of the women have to decide freely on our body. That is, we are talking about the right of women to voluntarily interrupt the pregnancy with which we are in compliance, but then it turns out that we want to criminalize the families who choose the surrogate pregnancy and generalize in a broad, criminal way. [[Applauds]] So, those who want to resort to this kind of practice, come, to criminalize the, ladies and gentlemen! We have heard everything, but let's talk about a concrete example, I will put a real example to the spokesman of the Socialist Party, that of a woman who freezes her eggs and, unfortunately, for a disease, a cancer, she has to be removed from the womb. Who do you think you are to prevent the right to be a mother if you want to choose the right to be a mother through surrogate pregnancy? Who do they think they are to limit the exercise of women's rights? [[Applauds]] These assumptions exist. We must also address other issues, because I have heard about the natural family to the representative of VOX and - I don't know if there is any anthropologist in the House - we should start thinking about what the family is. The Family is a social institution. I say that because sometimes I listen to them and it looks like we're going back to cave ages. It is curious to hear these kinds of manifestations, because, when you have dealt with these kinds of issues, you have opposed in vitro fertilization, methods of assisted reproduction, everything that implies a breakthrough in society, and also considering in a rather populist way - because you use very populist messages - that question of death, that philosophy of death, trying to hold responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made progress, that women are responsible for making our own decisions in every area of life! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that we women have made progress, that we are able to choose what we want for our lives, and in a free way! Another thing is that some like it more or like it less, even though you like it more or like it less you make it a norm and then ban it. That is their formula of doing politics in this House, which is nothing liberal, nothing progressive and nothing advanced in rights. In addition, the passive subjects of this type of questions, what a coincidence!, we are always the women, who have to tell us - and I am a little tired of this - whether or not we can practice prostitution in a free way, whether or not we can form a family according to the way we want, whether or not we want to help a friend, a family member who wants to be a mother and cannot and provide our body. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the advanced state, and we really look like a backward state! Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. I do not know whether the People's Group wants to exercise the reply. Would you like to exercise it, Your Honor? [[Consent]] I give the floor to Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u119	Thank you, President. Mrs Ros, this turn against which you have unexpectedly opened up, we sincerely believe that you could have saved it, for the unscrupulous intervention you have made, in which you have not even referred to the contents of the three amendments, two returns and one alternative text. [[Applauds]] It has not even referred to the text and, without giving us a single argument, asks us to withdraw it this time. The most important argument you have made is that a few years ago they got on the freedom train. Your Honor, the truth is that we find it regrettable and a very uneducating parliamentary practice. On the other hand, in your speech, you contradict your arguments by ensuring that the handling of this bill responds to an urgency, when, at the same time, you tell us that by the urgency procedure the time limits for amendments may be extended, there may be witnesses to give their opinion on the text. Let us understand and clarify: Is it urgent or not to discuss and pass this law? My group has the opportunity at this moment to say this clearly and forcefully: It is not an urgent text, it is an inappropriate and unnecessary bill, above all on the basis of the very important circumstance that the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on the appeal of unconstitutionality that was submitted in its day to Law 2/2010. [[Applauds]] Why are you coming to this House today? I told you before, ladies and gentlemen, and I repeat it again: For this feeling, which is becoming certain - which is spreading here and also outside here, in public opinion - that the legislature is running out and you will not repeat the government. That is the real reason why you bring this bill. [[Applauds]] And they have to do it urgently, because they know that in an ordinary process it would not be possible to end the adopted text. It must come urgently, without the relevant reports, without consulting healthcare professionals, who are affected by their activity and, more importantly, their rights are affected. We do not have fundamental reports for any legislative process, such as those of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council, among others, nor was the Committee on Bioethics of Spain consulted, for example. Why have you changed your composition a few months ago, if later, when a subject of such depth and silence arrives, you don't even consult it? I ask this also to this part of the bench, the socialist bench, since the Ministry of Health is in their hands. For what? Please explain why this report on this very important text has not arrived. I therefore reiterate what I said earlier. It is an inappropriate text, an unnecessary text and a text that does not arrive with sufficient legal guarantees to simply take it into account. Unfortunately, you will apply at the end of this session the usual roll and we will proceed to the processing, but you know, of course, that you have our absolute rejection of this presented text, which we consider - I repeat - unnecessary and inappropriate. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs González. I give the floor to Mrs. Ros Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the right, what is clear from this second intervention is that it is not legislated from Christian morality, it is legislated from the popular will of this House so that all citizens have the same rights, apart from our religious beliefs or our economic and social status. [[Applauds]] His ultra-conservative vision of society wants to make what is sin to some a crime. For the Socialists and the Socialists will not allow our daughters to have less rights than we, their mothers. [[Applauds]] And I repeat it again - I insist, I repeat it again - as with the Law of 2010, with this reform we women decide, the State guarantees us a right, society respects us and we legislate the deputies, not the bishops. With these amendments of return - and I have read them -, two of return and one of alternative text..., [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u122	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u123	... they re-establish two types of women - they are amendments to return to the text and you want to re-establish two types of women -: some, those who have money, those who can travel to countries with laws like those that have Spain - they remember that phrase that said 'a discount trip to London'?-, and, others, women without resources, those who engage in clandestine abortions, endangering their life and health. [[Applauds]] These amendments to the whole talk a lot about the right to life. I will tell you about the right to life in this second intervention. The right to life is to vote for an assisted reproduction law that has allowed many women to be mothers, a law that allows the conception of a future brother genetically compatible with another to save his life, and you have voted not to save life. To save life, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in its amendments is to defend the lives of women who suffer from macho violence, macho killings and vicarious violence. That is to save life by denouncing, but you with your negationism are doing what you are doing is putting the lives of women, your children and their daughters at risk. [[Applauds]] In addition, the same pattern is always repeated. You are going to oppose all laws to advance new rights and resort to them in the Constitutional Court, but you always lose them in public debate. And then they use their private lives, as they have done with gay marriage and divorce. There is your hypocrisy, with your amendments returning to this reform of the law. And, ladies and gentlemen, equality - as we speak of equality - is practised by passing laws like these, and not by introducing amendments like yours, which cut rights. Equality is not a matter of permits, it is a right. Motherhood - I repeat again - is an option, not an obligation, and I repeat to you that this reform of the law does not force any woman to abort. And conclusion, said the minister, but I would like to repeat it again - it is very easy to understand -: Sex education to decide, contraceptives to not abort and legal and safe abortion to not die for all women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ros. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor in the first place, Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Minister said several times during her speech that there was a sufficient majority to pass these bills and, therefore, the amendments were not going to be adopted in full, and now, in the last speech, the Socialist spokesman said that the legislators are the General Courts. Of course, that is obvious, but the question that needs to be asked is this. If the majority changes in the House because it is decided by all the Spaniards and some of the laws that have been seen this morning are repealed, since the amendments are going to be rejected as a whole and those will be adopted in the future, will they either admit it politically or will they'scram' and burn containers to demand that these laws be re-admitted? Man, say it! [[Rumors.-A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Man!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u126	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u127	Is it not what you do, that, when most are different from what you have, you delegitimize the House? Isn't that what they usually do, they go to the squares to say that the boss is the square? [[Applauds]] I admit that you are a majority and, of course, I will not try to convince you of anything, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible. Evidently, to those of us who think that within the womb of the mother there is life all this seems to us a barbarity, but I respect that there are those who put other interests above life. At least respect that those of us who think so have the right to think so. I'm just asking for respect for that opinion. And, like me, thousands of people. But, I will tell you more, because it has given me the feeling that the abortion law had already been repealed. Hey, can't you have an abortion in Spain since 1985? It is that both the minister and the spokesman of the Socialist Group have come out here, who has surprised me even more, because the minister is true that she wants to wear some medal and that we talk about Montero law and things like that, but the Socialist Party... That since 1985 it can be aborted in Spain!It seemed that they were here recovering I don't know what rights! That it can already be aborted since 1985, and since 2010 under other conditions! At best, you will recover what you understand to be a right, that the sixteen - seventeen - year - olds will not be informed. If that seems to them a right, yes, but, of course, it is no right, because the normal thing is to inform people, be sixteen, seventeen, fourteen or twenty-five years old, that people have information about what an operation like abortion involves and what consequences it can have. What fear do they have of informing people of things, who are also aseptic, and who then decide in freedom? Isn't that what you say, that you decide freely? I will disagree, but the law allows it and draws attention to the fact that you have eliminated it. And as for conscientious objection, what do you want? Mark people, put them on a blacklist and say that those are the ones who do not want to practice abortion; mark them on a list so that there may be people who can criticize them. Isn't it more normal for anyone who voluntarily wants to do these operations to be on a list and to call those people? No, because you want to point out to someone who doesn't think like you, who is what you do here. Everyone who doesn't think like you is what, that's what you usually do. With this law it is true that the only thing that is harmed, from my point of view, is the conscientious objection, that the people of sixteen and seventeen years old, who can now receive information, you are going to deny it, and, at best, that Minister Montero should be awarded a medal, in this case because of the Socialist Party. There you are; of course, those of us who think there is human life there understand that all this is barbarity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u128	Thank you, Mr. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u129	Thank you, President. That PP and VOX are against abortion today is not a particular issue in the Congress of Deputies, it is part of an international conservative offensive against women's rights and the rights of LGBTI people. And as for the center of the dispute, which are the bodies, which is emancipation, we have clear examples, such as the sperpentic image of the Madrid major school yesterday, the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court against abortion or violence in Iran against the revolt of women. But if the offensive is international, so is the feminist movement, a broad, powerful, strong and cross-border feminist movement. And, believe me, your violence is proportional to the transformative capacity of the feminist movement; to more violence, more rights. [[Applauds]] Because the right to abortion, ladies and gentlemen, has been won by the feminist movement with organization, struggle and street. You will remember the 1980s when the practice of working on the street and on public sites went through the Spanish State. And they will also remember the struggles that exist today in the Spanish state and also in the Catalan paíssos. Look, legislating in favor of the right to abortion is necessary, because there are only fifty-six counties in Catalan countries where abortion is not possible. [[Rumors]] In the country valencià 92% of abortions have to be in private clinics. And also we have companions who have to go to trial - listen, ladies and gentlemen-for demonstrating for the strike of March 8, the companions of 8 Mil Motius or those of Manresa. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right and the extreme right, I have the honour to say to you...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u131	Ladies and gentlemen of the right and the extreme right, I have the honour to tell you that the feminist movement is going to pass over you, because yours is not a stake in life. [[Rumors]] In fact, in the case of VOX it is a bet for some lives, because the lives of the borders do not matter, the lives of the poor do not matter either; they only care for some lives. His is not a struggle for life, his is a war against freedom and the emancipation of women's rights. So, live the feminist struggle. And, comrades, trust: to more violence, more transformative capacity has the feminist movement. Target the feminist struggle. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u133	Madam President, I'm on Guztioi. We are discussing two amendments in their entirety which are essentially very related. Again at this point we also talk about sexual health, sexuality, diverse life projects, diversity and respect. For years the feminist movement has had as its spearhead in its struggle demands that have given us a great deal of strength: we have decided. [[Continues your intervention in Basque]] And this is what I want to remind this House, and I encourage you not to forget. We are currently discussing the amendments to the whole tabled by the right and the extreme right of the state. Some, with faracious arguments and in some cases even delirious, intend to lead us to the paths of good, facing evil, which is where it is foreseeable, according to them or them, that this law leads us. To what extent do they prioritize the supposed demographic needs of Spain's homeland over the wishes and realities of women! All by the homeland led to the extreme of imposing maternity on thousands of women! Delirious! That's right, they listen to bodies like the CEO, who don't know if they've stood out precisely for shielding the rights of women workers. When they talk about casualties due to menstrual pain and termination of pregnancy, do they look at women's rights or look at the benefits of the employer? Others speak on behalf of society, mostly when they forget that for twelve years, since the 2010 Act, broad sectors of society have cried out about the need for this reform, carried out thanks to the work and pedagogy carried out by the feminist movement. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the aspects regulated in this law do generate broad consensus, not just of the feminist movement, but of society in general. Only rancid sectors full of Christian moralism, like you, oppose the fact that women can decide for themselves. But you know what? They've lost this battle. That women own our bodies, our decisions and our rights is a social conquest that has no turning back. Thanks to other women and our demands along with the feminist movement, we have built such broad, transversal consensus on our rights and freedoms, which are of those who change societies, of those who change the values prevailing in this society. And this is what hurts you, this is what you do not accept, that you are past and we are present and future. They complain about the pertinence of the parliamentary process of reforming the 2010 Act, while for us it is quite the opposite. That abortion is free, free and guaranteed in public health, as it will be from now on, and that is a right for all should have been given many years ago. We are in the year 2022, ladies and gentlemen of the right, and you remain anchored in 1952, at that time that you liked so much. No more guardianship and paternalism. Just tell us what we can be and what we can't be. It's enough that it's other people who decide for us. That time's up. We again say loud and clear that we will support all measures that favour mothers and fathers who are desired and responsible. [[The lady]] Finally, throughout different countries, and also in the Spanish State, experience has shown us, and scientifically has been proven, that sex education is an extremely important tool for achieving goals of equality and respect, so that it is never repeated that attempts are made to reverse acquired rights. That is why sex education is so important, so that we and our colleagues from the early stages of life know and be aware of our rights and freedoms, to protect ourselves from those who want to cut them. Therefore, I do not want to end without telling the Minister that every attack on feminist policies we feel as an attack on us, that every attack on policies designed to protect the rights of the discriminated and forgotten collectives is an attack on us, on all of us. That is why they attack the policies that they are capable of transforming, of changing society. And that's why it's so important to continue on this path, above all the attacks and the bubbles. They will continue to count on our support to win more and more rights, because I certainly make his words mine: These fascists are stopped by rights. Milla esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u135	Good morning again to everyone, or, better, good afternoon already; we have had an intense morning. We, as a parliamentary group, support the 2010 law. And I believe that Mrs Moneo and I are the only rapporteurs left of that law in this House, in a paper that counted on people like Joan Tardá, Carmen Montón or MercèPigem, among others, being Carmen Calvo president of the Equality Commission. And it was a huge step that was taken at that time. Today's amendments - some did not exist, and others did not as such even though they were integrated into another formation - did not support it either. But what I can tell you is that, with what that law entailed and the time it was, there was much less aggressiveness than there is now with the processing of this law. Ideological positions were marked very found, but there was not this tension, this situation of aggressiveness that I am actually seeing in some groups today. We will not support the amendments as a whole and we do not like the text that the Government has presented as it is, I say that clearly. We believe that there was no need to touch many things that have been touched, and we also passed it on to the Government at the time. We said that that consensus in 2010 was sacred, because it involved the very important change of some formations in their way of thinking and acting on this issue, and that that consensus had to be kept. As for the modification of the sixteen years, we also at the time defended what the PP changed; and it also cost a lot, because on the topic of the sixteen years there was an intense debate. We argue then and continue to argue the same; I don't know which people you are thinking of when someone who is sixteen years old has to resort in solitude to abort, as if it were a whim of any young girl. We were talking about situations where for a person the mere fact of deciding what to abort is even more serious than the fact of aborting. It is to that situation that we were referring to and, therefore, we put that exception, that exceptional situation. It is not a generalization, neither free nor whimsical, because what person may have to resort to that situation? Well, someone who has a very complicated situation in his family and his internal affairs. We amend all those issues that we think are left, that need to be amended or that have been over-legislated, but that does not mean that we support the criteria with which the amendments have been tabled in their entirety. There is an amendment to the whole, that of Citizens, which is not an amendment to the whole law of abortion, but is a proposal for a gestation law by substitution or subrogated gestation. Therefore, it does not correspond as an alternative amendment to the abortion law. It is the approach of another law that could come perfectly independently. Therefore, we do not see that this is the time and we will not support it. We are not going into the debate about what we think or stop thinking about the surrogate pregnancy; it is not the time. I referred to that moment when the law of 2013 was debated and I have now heard the Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. I can fully understand the objections that the People's Group has - I do not share many of them, most of them, but I do understand them - but the question I ask myself is: why were not all those changes that you proposed when you ruled by absolute majority? They did not move anything, only the sixteen years; they were unable to move anything else. Why didn't they? Maybe because they knew the social response would be another? They had the opportunity, they didn't need anyone; they had absolute majority and they didn't. They brought a proposal that did not arrive and that charged the proposal and the minister. And, Mrs Gonzalez, don't talk to me about roller, which with the absolute majority here has passed a lot of roller. So, let's not undo the road again. They want to put us in overdone debates, the PP more disguisedly and VOX in the most retrograde. Mrs Méndez, who was also at that time - she was not powerful, but she was part of the Group of the European People's Party - said the other day in the Commission: When a woman does not want to have her child, we will inform her. And I asked him, "What if he still doesn't want to have it?" He replied: "We will continue to inform you. What if everything doesn't want to have the child? Answer: Well, we'll convince her. What if they don't convince her? She'd probably answer, "We'll force her to have the baby. That's the last thing she's had to say, because that's what I'd say: We'll force her to have the baby. Abortion is no wish, it is a response to a situation in which not to abort is more traumatic than to do so. We will seek to return to the consensus of the year 2010. I think it's important for all of us to reach that agreement, because we don't have anyone to judge people and because realities aren't solved by closing our eyes or saying, "Because I don't like abortion, abortion doesn't exist, and because I don't want that person to abort, I forbid it." More than once I have come up to this rostrum and I have said that we cannot function, let alone legislate, with ethical and moral codes that are not shared. This is a matter of legislating for everyone, and this law, as has been said, does not oblige anyone who does not want or considers that he should have an abortion. He concluded by saying that this is a reality and that what needs to be done with the realities is to give them a solution and, above all, legal and health guarantees, which is what is needed so that a woman who feels she needs to abort can do so. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I am sorry to repeat myself, but unfortunately it is inevitable. Once again the ultra right and the ultra right are pretending to curtail rights rather than expand them; in this case, fighting something as elementary as women being able to decide about their body and their lives. What the ultras are doing with these amendments is nothing more and nothing less than exalting sexist terrorism and encouraging behaviors like that of the Chief College's pejos Elias Ahuja - patriarchy, machismo and fascism - at the same time shouting: 'Sieg Heil', and making Nazi greetings. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u138	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u139	That's exactly what they encourage. The People's Party, in fact, already withdrew in 2015 the right to abortion for 16- and 17-year-old girls and women with disabilities, and today it claims that they cannot recover it. Well, as bad as it may be, this vital advance in women's rights will go ahead and be law. It will do so because the amendment of the 2010 law will be made despite the obstructive and retrograde attitude of the PP and VOX, not only to recover stolen rights, but to advance in others, such as ensuring that the interruption of pregnancy can be carried out in public health and, to this end, the conscientious objection cannot be contemplated. In this regard, the BNG will work to ensure that the text responds precisely to this criterion; also to guarantee the full right of all women and adolescents to sexual and reproductive health services, or to promote emotional education at all stages of education, which is so necessary for what we are seeing. In its hyperliberal desire, the amendment of Citizens aims - we must say with all the letters - to commercialize the body of women, a clear form of violence that we reject on a plane, because, however much they call it surrogate gestation or surrogate gestation and attribute it to altruistic character, it is evident that, within the framework of the capitalist system and according to the position of vulnerability of many women of the popular classes, such commercialization would end up being inevitable and even the norm with private agreements. But what's more, the fact that it's commonly called a rental belly, a rental belly, indicates that this is the pretence of many people, but the point is that you don't rent a belly, but a human being. And we shouldn't have to repeat it, but it seems so, because it's not normal for anyone with money to buy a baby taking advantage of the position of need and vulnerability of other women. Moreover, this is defended by humanitarian arguments, as if adoption did not exist. Therefore, in defence of human dignity, the BNG will oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u141	Thank you very much, President. We are witnessing a real explosion of protest by Iranian women over the death of Masha Amani at the hands of the morale police for wearing the veil badly. Iranian women are throwing in the streets, schools and institutes a cry for freedom. Freedom, that word so manipulated, so abused and yet so simple. I give you two definitions of the Royal Spanish Academy: one, 'natural faculty that people have to work in one way or another, and I must work - to work and not to work -, so it is responsible for their actions'; and, two, 'in democratic systems, the right of superior value that ensures the self-determination of people'. To work or not, but to respect the self-determination of people. I am tired of hearing here about freedom: freedom of the market, of business, of teaching, even freedom to pray and intimidate the doors of abortion clinics. By the way, Mrs Vehi, yes, 92% of abortions in the Valencian country are in private clinics, some of which are arranged with the Generalitat. That often goes through intimidation, because many health professionals are compelled not to do these abortions. When we come to individual freedoms, some no longer like them so much, especially if they affect women. Sometimes there are some here and on the street who stand up as real morale cops - their morale - and pretend that we all commulgate with mill wheels. They want to interfere in women's bodies, tell them what they can and can't do. If you do not want to make use of these rights, then, Christ, do not make use of them, but let others do what they believe. They do not intend to impose their parameters, their beliefs or their beliefs. Live life and let others live it as best we can. Sometimes I hear some of your lordships - I insist, some - and a disturbing image comes to my head, that of an ayatollah. Sometimes I wonder if the only difference between them is that some people wear turbans and others don't. And I ended up talking about the need for sex education. We have heard the sandwiches that have been made by some students of wealthy families of a male major school, the Elías Ahuja Major College, which is a school run and run by the Augustinian parents. They are students of the Pudiente class, because at 1100 euros a month if you earn the minimum wage there you don't go. The headmaster of the school has confirmed that the students will apologize by letter. And you know what? The school will organize a cycle of conferences in which professionals will explain to residents how they should act in a Western democratic society. That is, the Augustinian parents have it clear, the right hand of this country not so much. Well, that's it. Apply. Education and freedom, two concepts that together make us worthy people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u143	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I have requested your presence here because I formally wanted to offer you my condolences. I'm so sorry I have to feel and hear everything you've been hearing this morning. It tastes bad to me, and as an ally in feminism, I say to you and to all the rest of the comrades: this we don't deserve and you can't stand it! [[Applauds]] That's why I wanted you to be. You were asking me the other day: why are you so angry? I don't know exactly what rule it was, but I was very angry; today I'm not even in the mood to get angry. After hearing the rapporteur from VOX, we have to joke about it, because this lady, she was either acting - and she was doing very well - or coming out of the NODE, or she thinks this is a pulpit. I remind you that it is the atrium of Congress, not a pulpit of your church. [[Rumors]] Do you want to go to church? Great, but he's said every barbarity! I want to thank you for not using the turn against, because it's been five minutes when my ears haven't bled. I would like to say that you must apologize, because everything is not good in politics, and today's sitting has been almost unfit. To say that the government is promoting pederasty seems to me to be the culmination of what I have heard in these seats, and we cannot allow it. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I ask the Presidency to do something, because it is directly a crime. [[Ms Esteban Calonje and Ms Méndez Monastery point to the Minister of Equality, Montero Gil]] Don't point to the minister, in any case, point to her ranks. Mark their ranks and the ranks of the Church, and not the minister, for it is shameful that they are able to do that! In the end, I got angry. [[Applauds.-Protests]] We're on. It is clear that we are going to vote no and it is also evident that our conception of life is not the same as yours, but, look, I will explain a couple of things to you. The first is that it doesn't matter whether abortion is or not: women abort their entire lives. Women make teas with rough and parsley, women put cataplasms in the vagina, women take needles of stockings and introduce them through the vagina to cause abortion, women throw themselves off the table, women throw themselves down the stairs. [[Strong Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u144	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u145	They have been doing it all their lives, because it turns out that women, as they begin to formally know how this conception works, realize that, as their body, no one helps them but they can dispose of it. And how do we know this? For because the alliances of women were passed on to each other the home abortion systems that often ended up in fatal hemorrhages. The law of abortion is the only thing that makes cheese that takes place in reality is done with guarantees, it is the only thing that does. It doesn't matter what you think, it doesn't matter. They have not yet realized that the role of legislators is to provide a guarantee of rights and well-being for their citizens. They have not realized because it has been too long that their function is to perpetuate - of course not! - their benefits and privileges. On the other hand, laws for everyone are not on your bench. Well, then you'll know. It's very unimportant what each of us thinks about the abortion element, it's the same. What we must do is that what is actually given is transferred to the bodies and lives of women with guarantees, rights and freedoms. What is interesting and urgent about this law is that it also expands certain things. The State guaranteed abortion with a statute of time limits that you generally found wrong and raised to the Constitutional Court. By the way, what an efficiency! It's only been eleven years to figure it out. I don't know if they claimed that for eleven years no one aborts or if what happens to women's bodies - and I've said it 50 times - doesn't matter to the judiciary and not to the high judiciary. What a ballad theme I've had that can be eleven years unsolved! What did they want? Paralyze subsequent legislation, such as this? It turns out that this enters into forced abortions, enters - the partner has commented before - into forced sterilizations and, therefore, again expands rights. It comes into what we discussed when we talked about the incorporation of the crime of coercion in front of the clinics into the Criminal Code. It comes into being that it is public health that must guarantee the exercise of the right. It comes into issues that you have always cared about a lot, such as territorial equity. That kind of issue was on the table and, therefore, it was urgent. We are witnessing this type of great debate - it has passed before also with the trans law - that are generated around the rights, around concepts such as freedom, cohesion, citizenship, guarantee of who we are or guarantee of what life is. By the way, it is so thoughtable that it begins at the time of conception as at the time of delivery. It's equally conceivable! And I will not accept lessons from either religion or truth or purity from either of you, because so opinionable is one thing like the other. [[Strong Rumors]] When the big debates take place, I realize that my country - and I want to end up like this, because I think my people need it -... [[Strong Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u146	A second before it's over. Ladies and gentlemen, they're screaming. Maybe they don't realize it, but they're screaming. [[Protests]] Please. Please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u147	She is not the Minister of Health, but if she were, she would ask for a bill for the hearing aids of the Members of the People's Group, which they do not seem to hear. They were saying it, huh?I don't make it up. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I was trying to say that this explains the democratic quality of a country. From the moment it explains the democratic quality of a country, I will reveal one thing: in Catalonia this debate is not there. We are all shunned a little to the left and to the guarantee of rights. And I am going to tell my people: as we stand, at this stage we are not going to be able or abort, therefore, feminists, we want to change. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, you are really shouting and it is impossible to concentrate on the person who is speaking in the rostrum. I'd beg a little silence. [[Rumors]] A little respect. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u149	First of all, I meant that Mrs Toscano in her speech said a phrase, but she said it wrong. What needs to be removed are their rosaries from our ovaries. [[Applauds]] You see, rights are for all or not rights, and this is not that it is a top feminist, it would have to be a premise to legislate. That is why the reform of Law 2/2010 is so important and why it is so important that new feminist rights, reproductive, sexual and menstrual rights are shielded in this rule. This is talking about reproductive health, free, safe and free abortion so you don't die. Finally, 16- and 17-year-old women and also women with functional diversity will be able to decide about their own bodies when we talk about reproductive rights, as they can about other matters of their health. This is what is in the international standards and, in that removal of guardianships, the three days of reflection will no longer be mandatory, because it was a paternalistic requirement as if when we made a decision we had to think about it again when it comes to this and not other medical aspects. We guarantee that it will be possible to abort in public centres, which also means regulating conscientious objection, facilitating the proximity between border autonomous communities and involving high inspection so that we can end this territorial gap that exists and that has been mentioned earlier in this debate. But there is also a general clinical view, because it is about accompanying the process of voluntary termination of pregnancy. Because it is a matter of urgency and of having both a pharmacological method and a surgical one with sufficient information for the woman who is going to voluntarily interrupt her pregnancy. It is also talking about sexual health, sex education to choose contraceptives not to abort. This standard will ensure comprehensive and specialized assistance, as well as a specific line reporting on sexual and reproductive rights and, yes, the free birth control pill. Why? Because it's about it being for everyone. Mrs Gonzalez, are you telling me that if it happens in health centres - as this rule says - there will be no medical supervision? To this day it's happening. I believe that if it happens in health centres, there will be that medical check-up that you have denied in your intervention. But it is also a question of making contraceptives, as well as menstrual management products, affordable and guaranteed, because right now we have managed to lower VAT from 10% to 4% in the next draft budgets. On the other hand, sexual education in the centers, and I will stop here for a moment, because this is a very serious thing that should not be used to attack the government, to attack the Ministry of Equality, to attack the minister or to make the worst possible policy with the bubbles. And we must not allow this to happen in this House. It was Mr. Adanero who asked. Do you know what discredits the House? I'm going to tell you: make politics with lies. And I will tell you one more thing: the fact that we allow it in this House, that we are not indignant and that the Presidency is not acting are the things that I believe delegitimate the democratic institutions that we must equip ourselves with and that we must ensure. So for the Presidency to act when bubbles are spreading like the one that has been said today about the Minister of Equality. [[Applauds]] Besides, it's that our group doesn't show up one day at a time, it's that we live with it and we have to relate to it. Turning into taboos issues such as consent or sexuality itself denotes a dark and cloudy vision of sexuality, and that is worrying. And then how does that become tangible? With comments and voices like those we have seen not in one, but in several videos, and not this year, but for several years, at the Elías Ahuja College. [[The lady]] I believe that the sex education we want for the whole State and for the whole population, because we need it at all stages of our lives and we need it to be consistent with every stage of life, is more like a sex education that promotes diversity, promotes self-knowledge, promotes consent and promotes respect. The comments would be sexist if this were at the New Year's Eve dinner and were the comments of a brother-in-law you have to listen to, but what we heard was really a show of violence and sexual terror. [[Rumors]] Yeah, sex education. And I'm going to recommend two readings: Sex is a funny word, published by Bellaterra, and Rachel Bryan's consent and published by Oceano Travesía. Although these are two readings intended for children, I think they will also be able to understand them so that no walls of silence are formed, such as that of 'that is not spoken of', which have generated so much pain, because it is an indecency to oppose the investigation of sexual assaults on children and adolescents within the Church and to oppose the existence of sex education in schools. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u150	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u151	By the way, in secondary schools, this standard also wants information campaigns and barrier contraceptives to be distributed free of charge. [[Rumors]] We go to the field of menstrual health: education and recognition in the workplace when it is incapacitating and fights menstrual poverty. Because I still remember that in this House... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u152	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Fernández. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u153	I still remember that in this House, when we were talking about menstrual poverty - which is putting a name for poverty, that is to say - there were those who felt uncomfortable and even came to say that it was ecological. Only those who are full of privileges and also of ignorance can say something like that, because in the Spanish State - not elsewhere - there is poverty and the difficulty of access to menstrual management products, in addition to resources as basic as water. And it is not that I tell him, but that the United Nations rapporteur told us on his visit. Because when you talk about this, it feels bad to you that you don't have that problem, and you don't worry about the people who have that problem. That is why we say that rights are either for all or not rights. And this, when we talk about euthanasia or when we talk about abortion, is what we have to talk about today, because we are facing a conquest that is feminist, but - again quoting today Alana Portero - it is also a class conquest. The far right may pretend that it comes to deny a reality, that women voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy, that that does not happen, but that is that they are pretending, because they know that this happens. The far right is that it is available to everyone, regardless of their income and postal code. I am making a quick statement on the amendments. Unidad Podemos is against reproductive exploitation and the proposing group of that alternative text amendment knows that there is much work to be done to further advance rights under this rule. And about the musicians, who are in the background of the osmenta of hatred and cruelty, and also their companion, I want to make two notes. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, most of those who were anti-abortion MEPs have already gone to that other bench and are no longer there. [[pointing out the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] Also, remember that it was a freedom train that took a minister ahead of you, and that the freedom train or the ultra-right train and the hatred of VOX may lead you ahead. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the honourable Members. In accordance with the decision of the Board of Spokesmen, this item will be put to the vote without any previous debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u156	We continue with the item on the agenda relating to the proposals for the plenary of the Chamber for the final deliberation and vote of the draft law adopting and extending certain measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability, and for the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma; the draft law establishing a new system of contributions for self-employed or self-employed workers and improving the protection by cessation of activity; and the draft law on economic sustainability measures in the field of transport, on scholarships and study aid, as well as measures for saving, energy efficiency and reducing energy dependence on natural gas. These proposals shall be put to the vote together with the other matters below. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin voting, the first secretary of the Bureau will proceed to read an institutional statement.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u158	Institutional declaration to the aggression carried out by units of the armed forces of Azerbaijan in the early morning of 13 September against Armenian positions in the towns of Goris, Sotk and Dzhermuk, by means of artillery and drones, which has resulted in the death of at least 207 Armenian military personnel, the Congress of Deputies reaffirms its rejection of the military actions that constitute a serious violation of international law, considering them unjustified aggressions that undermine regional security and stability; promotes in the field of international relations the commitment of the implementation of the ceasefire signed by the parties, and shows Armenia and its people our solidarity and affection. We deplore the loss of life on both sides, and we convey our deep sorrow for the victims and for the unnecessary suffering to the population. We extend this sentiment to the Armenian community living in Spain. It supported the efforts of the High Representative of the European Union and the Special Representative for the South Caucasus, a leading role in the process of monitoring the ceasefire agreement, which helped to find a negotiated, comprehensive and lasting solution to the conflict; urged the parties to respect international legality, abandon arms and resume diplomatic channels, thus reaffirming this position as the only viable and lasting solution to this complex and historic dispute and urged the European Union to redouble its efforts to promote diplomatic measures aimed at descalation and the maintenance of peace. At the Congress of Deputies, on October 6, 2022. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u159	Thank you very much, secretary first. We started with the votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u160	We started with the votes. We started with non-law propositions. No law proposed by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for the elimination of the compulsory use of masks in public transport. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 64 against, 172 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u161	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP ON UPDATE OF TYPE COSTS. [[Mrs Fernández Perez]] [[File number 162/001096]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u162	No legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez, on updating the standard costs. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 198 abstentions, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u163	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u164	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, on the implementation of a distance work plan for the public sector that will contribute to territorial cohesion and the fight against depopulation. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 234 abstentions, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u165	The motion was approved. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN THE MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND THE 2030 AGENDA FOR IMPLOYMENT THE 2030 AGENDA IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u166	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to implement the 2030 Agenda in Spain. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 53 against, 291 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u167	Point 1 is therefore rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 53 against, 292.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u168	Point 2 is rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 53 against, 292.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u169	Point 3 is therefore rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 53 against, 204 abstentions, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u170	Point 4 is therefore rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 53 against, 203 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u171	Point 5 is rejected. Finally, we voted on item 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour 144 against 200.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u172	Point 6 is therefore rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, to enable the Government to explain the measures it intends to adopt to help THE SPANISH FAMILIES TO BE COMING At the end of the month. [[File number 173/000173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u173	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain the measures it intends to take to help Spanish families reach the end of the month. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 161 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u174	Point 1 is therefore rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 153 against, 161 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u175	Point 2 is rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 155 against, 186 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u176	Point 3 is therefore rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 155 against, 160 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u177	Point 4 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u178	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 143 against, 193 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u179	The amendments are therefore rejected. [[Greetings.- Several guest gentlemen in the public gallery show a flag]] I remind you, please, that from the rostrums you cannot make any kind of demonstration and I ask you to maintain order in the Chamber. - PROPOSED LAW ON PROTECTION, RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF ANIMALS. [[File number 121/000117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u180	Draft Law on the Protection, Rights and Welfare of Animals. Amendments to the full refund. Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund tabled by the Basque, Popular Parliamentary Groups in Congress and VOX. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 157 against, 179 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u181	The amendments are therefore rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u182	Draft Law on the Protection, Rights and Welfare of Animals. Request for avocado. Requests made by the VOX and Popular Parliamentary Groups at the Congress, for the House of Assembly's approval of the deliberation and final vote on the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 337 against, 1 abstention, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u183	Consequently, it is referred to the plenary session of the House. - DRAFT ORGANIC LAW AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE, IN ANIMAL MALTRATO. [[File number 121/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u184	Joint vote on amendments to the full return to the Draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on Animal Abuse, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Groups at the Congress and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u185	The amendments are therefore rejected. - DRAFT ORGANICAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 2/2010 OF 3 MARCH, SEXUAL HEALTH AND REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH AND THE VOLUNTARY INTERRUPTION OF THE PACKAGE. [[File number 121/000122]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u186	Amendments to the full refund. Joint vote on amendments to the full refund, tabled by the VOX and Popular Parliamentary Groups in Congress to the draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 142 against, 199 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u187	The amendments are therefore rejected. [[Applauds]] An amendment to the entire alternative text, submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, has been submitted to the same organic bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 14 against, 329 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u188	The amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u189	Opinions of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the excellent Members. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 330 against, 3 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u190	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u191	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of the request for the House plenary to approve the deliberation and final vote of the bill adopting and extending certain measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability, and for the economic and social recovery of the island of La Palma, arising from the Royal Decree Law 11/2022 of 25 June, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 338 against, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u192	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary. - DRAFT LAW ESTABLISHING A NEW COTIZATION SYSTEM FOR WORKERS BY OWN ACCOUNT OR AUTONOMS AND IMPROVING THE PROTECTION OF ACTIVITY [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 13/2022 OF 26 JULY]] [[File number 121/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u193	Voting of the request for the plenary of the Chamber to approve the deliberation and final vote of the bill establishing a new system of contributions for self-employed or self-employed workers and improving the protection by cessation of activity, coming from the Royal Decree Law 13/2022 of 26 July, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 337 against, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u194	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary. - Draft law on economic sustainability measures in the field of transport, in the field of livestock and study aid, as well as measures to save energy efficiency and reduce energy expenditure on natural gas [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2022, OF 1 AUGUST]] [[File number 121/000120]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u195	Vote on the request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on economic sustainability measures in the field of transport, on scholarships and study aid, as well as on measures for saving, energy efficiency and reducing energy dependence on natural gas, coming from the Royal Decree Law 14/2022 of 1 August, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 336 against, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u196	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting continues in a secret manner. I pray, therefore, close the doors and evict the stands. [[Pause]] Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended in a public capacity. The session shall continue in a confidential manner. The meeting was resumed in a public capacity.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-06-CD221006.u197	From now on, the session can continue on a public basis. The meeting rose. Thank you all very much. It was three and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
