ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u1	Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u2	Thank you, President. Mr. Sanchez, I'm glad you're early in recovery and that you can be back here today in this control session. You have long lost your sense of reality, which is why you refuse to adjust the IRPF for medium and low incomes, as the People's Party has been asking you since April; that is why you refuse to reduce to 4% the VAT on the basic products of a shopping basket that has risen by 15%; that is why you refuse to extend the fall in VAT on electricity and gas beyond 31 December, as families, businesses and self-employed people are demanding. In the meantime, and at the cost of the effort and sacrifice of the Spaniards, you have 27 billion euros in collection. But, and you, what sacrifices are you willing to make? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to remind you that the Government has already deployed EUR 35 billion to respond to the economic and social consequences of the Putin war in Ukraine and that, by the way, we have not had the support of the People's Party to protect the middle and working class of our country. [[Applauds]] Yesterday you said that the general budgets of the state that the government is going to bring to this House are anti-social budgets. Well, let's compare them with their latest 2018 budgets: in social spending, an increase, ladies and gentlemen, from 35.4% in 2018 to 2023; in education, an increase, ladies and gentlemen, of 62%; in scholarships and study grants, an increase of 60%; in dependence, an increase of 151.4%, ladies and gentlemen. That is, in four years we will have reversed all the cuts in the national system of dependency that you perpetrated when you ruled this country. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Your Honor, these are social budgets, budgets that protect the middle and working class of this country. When you ruled, inequality rose, poverty rose. But you and the majority of this country must be clear one thing and it is that this government, as it did with the pandemic and unlike what you did when you ruled the financial crisis, will put all the resources of the state at the service of the social majority and not at the service of the potential minority, which is what you did when you ruled this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u6	Look, Mr Sánchez, the socialists have never taken Spain out of a crisis, that is, they have put us all into it and are doing it again. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Get to know him, his budgets are pure electoral calculation. You need the money that's from all the Spaniards to buy wills, and they're already reminding you of your partners, who are going to make you sweat. [[rumors]] But remember, they love you for your weakness. Get down to reality. Do you know what the poverty rate is now? Because you talk a lot about social justice and equity, but today in Spain there are more than 13 million Spaniards in poverty and social exclusion, a figure that has not been achieved since the 2008 crisis with Zapatero. Meanwhile, his eight hundred advisers are a record figure; his twenty-two ministers and ministries are another record figure; his 158 million euros spent on propaganda are another record figure. His Government spent as never before while the Spaniards sacrificed as never before. And you don't have a problem with the witches or the meigas, you have the problem of being a bad ruler who is unable to solve anything. Stop conjuring, propaganda and ideological prejudices, because while distracting with the rich, you are dedicated to stripping the workers. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u8	Look, join the rebellion of your own, in that save who you can, and continue to copy the proposals of the People's Party because it is urgent. [[Several Members: Ah...]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u10	You've had a long question, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Applauds]] It's been a summary of slogans. Look, Your Honor, if the data are there: in two years we have recovered pre-pandemic employment levels and, as a result of the financial crisis and the neoliberal response in the form of adjustments and cuts to the welfare state, it took ten years to recover previous employment levels. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u12	Therefore, Your Honor, what shows a lack of empathy is to hear your leader say that it is ancient to speak of rich and poor in a country that has two and a half million young children in poverty or, according to the National Institute of Statistics, has 27.8% of its population at risk of poverty. [[applause]] The old thing, Your Honor, is to lower taxes on the rich, which they do in the UK. [[Shows a copy of The Economist.-Rumores]] Speak, Your Honor, to your friends and fellow conservatives and ask them how they do not have to govern a country. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT, IN THE NEXT GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE, CONCERN A TRANSITIONAL LEVELATION FUND TO EQUALIZE THE HIGHER FINANCING OF THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES TO THE MEDIA OF FINANCING, NOT TO ENTER INTO FORCE THE NEW AUTONOMIC SYSTEM OF FINANCING? [[File number 180/001036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u13	Question by Mr Baldoví Roda, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u14	Mr. Sánchez, I am pleased to see you again in this recovered House. The General Council of the Judiciary has been expired for four years and seems scandalous to us, but the funding system has been eight years, under the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and it seems less scandalous to us. Welcome to paradise, we were able to hear from an autonomous community president who was probably forgotten to add: Welcome to the paradise of the rich. [[Rumors]] Others, such as this government - and I recognize it - or the Valencian government - that we share, Compromises, Socialist Party and Podemos - we try to build small earthly, decent, ethical, moral paradises. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u15	Mr. Baldoví, wait a second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the monitoring session must take place in silence, respecting all speakers, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u16	I like it when they're quiet, because they're more polite. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Decent paradises where everyone has the same opportunities and where no one stays behind. But to maintain these little paradises we need resources, resources to sustain our health, our education, schools, scholarships and faculty - which are not paid with tax cuts - and to strengthen our social services. We already know that this is complicated, and we know that this Government has made efforts. But we ask for a little more effort, a transitional leveling fund for the autonomous communities that are below the average: Andalusia, Castilla-La Mancha, Murcia, Valencian Community. It is nothing new, this year they have already authorized a fund of 3000 million for the negative liquidations of twelve autonomous communities. We stay out, as always. This levelling fund that we are proposing would amount to only $2 billion, $2 billion in social spending of $274 billion, only 0.7%, that is, a nimity, and would have three advantages: it would equalize communities, it would not reduce funding to any one and it would calm down...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Indeed, in our country there is a majority that needs help and there is a potential minority that can help that social majority, and that is what the Spanish Government is doing with a proposal for tax reform: a tax on large financial institutions, a tax on large energy institutions and, also, a tax on the great fortunes of our country. By the way, unlike the right, this is not an old debate or a debate, let us say, out of time in Europe because there are many other European countries governed by right-wing parties or by liberal parties that are betting on the same fiscal formula as the Spanish Government. You ask me why we do not agree on the system of autonomous financing, but, of course, the answer is the approach taken by the General Council of the Judiciary. If we are faced with an opposition that is neither able nor able to comply with the Spanish Constitution and then gives us lessons of constitutionalism. [[Rumors]] We would like to renew the General Council of the Judiciary and we would also like to reform the system of autonomous financing, but two do not dance if one does not want and it is clear that we have before us a negationist opposition that has not slashed its shoulder during the pandemic or is slashing its shoulder right now during the economic and social consequences of the war. In any case, what the Spanish Government is doing is being pragmatic and aware that the autonomous communities have competence in fundamental pillars of the welfare State such as dependency, health and education, so the Spanish Government is doing what it is doing to increase these resources. Simply to give you a figure, in the proposal of the budgets that we will bring to this House over the next few days the autonomous communities will receive a record figure of 135 274 million euros from the autonomous financing system in the year 2023, that is, 24% more than the previous year, the year 2022; in deliveries to account, 124 293 million euros, and in liquidation of the year 2021, 10 981 million euros. We do not forget the local authorities, the municipalities, which are going to receive 5% more than the year 2022, i.e. 23 235 million euros from the financing system in the year 2023. Therefore, Your Honor, of course, we are collecting the glove, we want to reform the system of autonomous financing, but it is clear that with this negationist opposition, which is unable to comply with the Constitution, we are not going to ask the elm to do so. We know perfectly well what the right-wing strategy is and, in any case, the commitment of the Spanish Government to regional and local funding is total and absolute. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIRL GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT CONSIDER THAT HIS GOVERNMENT DOES EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO HELP THE SPANISH FAMILY? [[File number 180/001053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u19	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u20	Mr Sánchez, do you believe that the measures your Government is taking are positive for the future of the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u21	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u22	I think so, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u23	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u24	This week, in which you yourself lower growth forecasts for the coming year, you announce a rise in pensions by 8.5 % and a rise in civil servants' salaries by 9.5 % over a couple of years. I suppose that's very easy to announce, but of course, is that you only explain one part of the cake, the other is that one in two euros of public spending in Spain is already destined to pay pensions; in 2005 it was one in four. [[Rumors]] I'm giving you another piece of information, and it's creepy, Mr. Sanchez. In recent years, the average pension in Spain has risen by 40%. Do you know how much the young people's salary has risen in this period? Less than 6 %. You are widening the gap between the Spanish. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u25	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u26	A gap between different generations and a gap between those who work in the private sector and those who receive a payroll from the State. And I know what you're going to tell me, that we don't care about pensioners or civil servants, and of course we do, and their children and grandchildren. We care about today's pensions and public services, but also tomorrow's, and we also care about the self-employed and the workers in the private sector, who are not going to raise their wages by 9% and who you are still taxing. It is also that you do nothing to improve birth, education, fight the submerged economy or cut the superfluous spending of the public administration. We are much more in favour of the public pension system and the welfare state than you, who are going to blow it up. They're gonna blow it up. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u27	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u28	No need, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u30	And I tell you more, many pensioners share what I say, even if I touch your pocket, because you have a lot more responsibility than you do. Measures should be taken such as linking the necessary upgrading of pensions to the increase in the salary of young people, as is already the case in Denmark, the Netherlands, Japan or Norway. I recognize that for us it would be much easier to do what the PP and the PSOE always do, that it is to ask for large pension increases without making reforms for their sustainability, but it is that we prefer to be brave and tell the truth, Mr Sánchez, because you have no right to mortgage the next generations to pay for your election campaign, because your attempts to buy votes today involve selling the future of millions of Spaniards. [[Applauds.-A Member of the House: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u31	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that we are always in that debate and it is clear what interests you and your group defend, which are not the interests of the majority, are not the interests of pensioners and are not the interests of the young people of our country at all. You have bought the argument and, let's say, all that material damaged that the public pension system is unsustainable and, therefore, what we have to do is privatise it and make a system of capitalization, as did Latin American countries that have deepened precisely in inequality. This Government defends the sustainability of the public pension system, Your Honor, and defends the system of sharing the public pension system. [[applause]] Of course he does! Look, I haven't had time yet to study the general budgets of the state in depth, but we will have time for the coming months to discuss them here in the House. I will simply tell you that the Government for the first time in years is providing economic resources to the reserve fund, i.e. to the pension fund, to ensure the sustainability of today's and tomorrow's retirements, of those generations you say this Government is abandoning. By the way, a pension hut that until 2011 we left quite full and that precisely those who did not believe in the public pension system erupted during their governments. [[Applauds]] That is what the Government of Spain is doing. Do not tell me that we are not defending the young people of this country, Your Honor, when in the proposal that we bring from the budgets the scholarships reach historical levels, with more than 400 million euros, that is, we are above 2 billion euros; we are going to allocate 300 million euros to the School 4.0 programme, precisely so that our young people can learn programming and robotics; educational expenditure, Your Honor, increases by 6.6%, up to 5350 million euros, and we consolidate, for example, in the area of housing, the young rental voucher, with 200 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that these are budgets in favour of the social majority, are budgets that are committed to social cohesion and territorial cohesion and that focus the debate where it really is, which is on inequality, a real problem that exists in our country, for which we are, first of all, easing the tax burden on the middle and working class and, also, demanding those who have more than one shoulder to shoulder. Your Honor, what I'm asking you to do is support these measures and abandon that cheap commodity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES IT ACCIDENT WITH THE VICE-President OF THE SECOND TECHNICAL RECESSION IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u34	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u35	With all due respect, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, let's see what needs to be heard here when it was Mr Sánchez who voted to freeze the pensions. Of credibility we are just. [[Applauds]] But, look, your general state budgets bring good news and it's that they're going to be the last of your government, Your Honor. Perhaps no one tells you in your ministry or in your party that you are leading Spain to ruin. We do it here and we do it face-to-face every week, without footsteps, without complexes, because that's exactly what's going on. And we do so, Your Honor, so that you may rectify, because what needs to be done is to make proposals, as the People's Party does, which we are doing for Spain to go well, because our main objective is for Spain to go well, our main objective is Spain. [[rumors]] In that we differ from you. Unfortunately, you are still unrighteous. We'd like them to be right, but they're not right. They don't give one, Your Honor. You have skated with growth and inflation figures not once, but several times. Just a few days ago she said here that Spain is having a robust economic growth and, at the same time, practically the same day, the second vice president said that Spain was in a technical recession. Your Honor, do you realize the message this government is sending to the economy? It's a lethal message. You are responsible for coordinating the government's economic policies, but you no longer coordinate a government that does not work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u36	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u37	Thank you, President. I have not heard the question, but you are absolutely right, for four years and three months saying that Spain is on the verge of bankruptcy and that Spain is heading for ruin. [[laughs]] It is difficult to understand why a party that has had the responsibility of government would say something like that about its country within and outside our borders. Very unpatriotic, very unresponsible. [[Applauds]] The truth is that the Spanish economy, in what we have been doing since 2022, is growing strongly, even more than we had anticipated. The forecast for this year is 4.4% - and it is a prudent forecast - after 5.5% of the previous year and for next year we expect 2.1%. This means that the Spanish economy has an enormous strength and is well resisting a tremendously complex international context. This is because we make the right decisions to respond to the pandemic, which we have taken and are taking the right steps to respond to the challenge of war and, above all, the recovery plan. That plan that you have also tried to boycott since the first day, both inside and outside our borders. Look, Mr Rojas, I think you have to stop making so many proposals every day and start acting, acting by supporting the Government and acting with responsibility, patriotism and defending the interests of our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u38	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u39	Vice-President, how do you tell the opposition to stop making proposals? That's an anti-patriot. [[Applauds]] You no longer generate trust, your government is a cage of crickets, and you know it. What confidence can such a government generate? This government one day rises up federally and lies centralist. One day he's called a progressive and the next day he's a communist. One day it welcomes NATO and the same day it manifests itself against NATO. He sees no problem in inflation and then inflation is the problem. What kind of management is yours, Your Honor? We already know what it is: sanding all Spaniards with the inflation levy. More than EUR 27 billion so far. Where is the welfare state? You would have to be supportive of all the Spaniards and implement those proposals that the People's Party is making, ladies and gentlemen, because your Government is a dream for you, but it is a nightmare for all the Spaniards. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u41	Thank you, President. Personal attacks, confused bat burrillo.. [[rumors]] If I understand, it's just that they're having a hard time. Let's see: we have more than 20 million members of Social Security; unemployment has fallen below three million people; we are at a minimum of youth unemployment and temporaryity; we have improved conditions, average wages and the interprofessional minimum wage in our country, and we have improved pensions. And all this has been against the People's Party. They have voted against labour reform, which is clearly good for Spanish citizens, have tried to boycott the recovery plan and have voted against all the measures we are taking to support the middle class and the entire Spanish population. I understand that it is very difficult to explain the destructive work of the People's Party. The only thing that comforts me is that you really have no effectiveness when you try to boycott and damage the image of our country within and outside our borders. Again, he urged them to act responsibly and patriotically, which is what it is about to be in politics. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: IS IT YOUR RESPONSIBILITY THAT THE SPAIN ARE MORE POOR THREE YEARS AGO? [[File number 180/001055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u42	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I find that disconcerting. The other day, and today too, she was proud of this Government's economic work. I hope not, Minister. I hope you are not proud to be impoverishing Spain - you and your Government - because in 2012 Spain was the country where poverty increased the most throughout Europe, according to Eurostat. According to another less reliable source - I just heard Pedro Sánchez ten minutes ago - two million children are poor in Spain. I know you didn't trust the source much, but two million children are poor and you're proud? Are you really proud to impoverish Spain so much? Do you realize that it is your responsibility that the Spaniards are poorer today than they were three years ago? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u45	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, I'm really excited to see the People's Party and VOX so worried about the poor in Spain. Why are they voting against us setting a tax on the richest? Why are they voting against a tax on the banking sector and our country's big energy companies? [[Applauds]] Why do they vote against all the measures we have put in place to support precisely the middle classes and to protect the most vulnerable? Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, over the past three years we have been through a pandemic, a volcano and a war, but we have still managed to take measures that have benefited Spanish citizens. As every week, I have to give you some data: GDP per capita has increased by EUR 2000 from less than EUR 26 000 to almost EUR 28,000 per Spanish citizen; the number of social security members has increased to over EUR 20 million; the number of unemployed has fallen from EUR 3 million; the number of households with all their unemployed members has fallen by more than EUR 200 000; the number of households with all the employed persons has risen from EUR 10.4 million to EUR 11.1 million and we have created the vital minimum income, which is a fundamental support for 500,000 families, almost one and a half people, of whom 43% are minors. Your Honor, this is a Government committed to the fight against poverty and especially child poverty. Let's see if they start making any decisions to support these measures. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u46	Mrs Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u47	Your Honor, there is no doubt that you are committed to eradicating wealth. We prefer to eradicate poverty. Since you have come to this government, I do not know any Spaniards who have prospered, except of course you and the undocumented Podemos. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, this irresponsibility is yours, Minister, and I refer to the evidence. Unemployment - the unemployment you were talking about - is the biggest cause of poverty in Spain. Spain leads unemployment in the European Union and this government, with its reforms, is far from correcting the problem and is helping to make it worse. The rise in taxes is being foolish, when the Spanish least have it is when you collect more and, in fact, Spain is leading the increase in fiscal pressure in the OECD countries, leaving the Spanish with empty pockets. You are bringing public debt to levels that compromise not only our future, but the future of our children and grandchildren, because the country's debt, Your Honor, also affects poverty, especially in an up interest rate environment like the one we are living in. Another figure is the zero - zero - economic growth because Spain has not even recovered the pre-pandemic level yet and now until the AIReF lowers its economic forecasts to 1.5% for next year. A disaster. Nothing. Your Honor, we are in stagnation and you are approaching the risk of recession. And inflation, Your Honor, the uncontrolled price escalation, the real middle class tax, is triggered and is the worst Spanish tax. Minister, socialism is a machine for creating poor people. We thought Zapatero was impossible to make worse, but you're spraying all of Spain's impoverishment records. Proud not, Your Honor, you and your entire government should be ashamed. Go away, but before you go apologize for all the damage you're doing. It's going to take a lot to get Spain back when they leave. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u48	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u49	Thank you, President. You say that you do not know any Spaniards who benefit from the action of this government. Well, you have to check out your friends! Does that mean that you don't know anyone who earns the interprofessional minimum wage? You don't know any young people who have obtained, for the first time, indefinite employment through labour reform? You don't know anyone who benefits from the scholarships? Does anyone know who benefits from investment in education? Does anyone know who benefits from public health, free public transport, self-help, ERTs, business support, ICO guarantees, minimum living income, support for families with poor children? But how can it be, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, that you do not know any real Spanish? [[Laughter]] [[applause]] [[applause continues throughout the intervention]] This is a government that governs for the majority of Spaniards. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE SERGIO SYAS LÓPEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: Do you think that the rate of implementation of the European funds is working to maximise its impact on the Spanish economy, particularly on shipwreck? [[File number 180/001052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u51	Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen. Question by Mr Sergio Sayas López from the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u52	Madam Vice-President, do you believe that European funds are being implemented at cruising speed?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u53	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u54	Thank you, President. Mr Sayas, as you well know, because every quarter I report in detail to the Joint Committee in which you participate, this year we are reaching the cruising speed in the investments and reforms of the recovery plan, which is having a fundamental impact on the strong and sustainable recovery of our economy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u55	Mr. Sayas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u56	Look, Madam Vice President, it's not like we're going at cruising speed, it's like we're going straight at snail speed. Last year you had a forecast of impact on GDP was 2%; the reality was zero, and this year we are on the same path. Of the 29 billion in budgets, 8 % had been disbursed in August. And it is that, in the end, the Spaniards will find that the European funds are like the Euromillion, that one sees stratospheric figures everywhere, but no one knows anyone who has seen a euro in the real economy. With your mismanagement, we run the risk that the manna of millions of Europeans will end up becoming a manna of propaganda, because in that you are indeed experts, in inflating the figures and in not delivering results. Yesterday we saw him, when they were talking about the general budgets of the state. We were told that, with you, spending on education has grown by 60%. The question is, what for? Because we have twice the OECD average of people without the FP or Bachelor's degree. We were told that health spending has increased by 50%. The question is, what for? Because we have seen how, with you in the government, waiting lists have multiplied by three; or you tell us about social spending and the reality is that, with you in the government, there are 2.4 million children at risk of social exclusion. That you are the Government of Spain! Do you want to start thinking that maybe it's not about spending so much, it's about learning to spend better? It is called managing, although you prefer the word wasteful. Exactly the same as what is called transparency, even if you prefer opacity in European funds. I'm putting Navarra's case on him. Look, the Navarra government has said that the Foral Community is going to manage EUR 365 million. The Minister of Finance has told us that 335; the government delegate in the Foral Community, 480. But if you don't agree on the figures! The only thing that there is a consensus throughout the Foral Community of Navarre is that you have been the worst government in democratic history in terms of vital infrastructure for our community. We do not even talk about Volkswagen, because it is clear the bet they have made by Martorell to the detriment of the Navarra plant. The high-speed train has been standing for four years. The only thing that they have built us - they are in it - is the part of Tafalla to Castejon, that that looks like a scalextric, not knowing where it will connect in the north or in the south. Navarra Canal, four years paralyzed. It's obvious that you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u58	Thank you very much, President. Mr Sayas, I ignore your management experience, but the truth is that the implementation of the recovery plan is posing a very difficult challenge for the Spanish administrations as a whole. That is why, from the very beginning, we have established a framework of co-governance with the autonomous communities, with an important role for the municipalities, so that these funds reach the entire territory, all the companies and to launch emblematic strategic projects that can modernize and transform our country, reindustrializing it into a green and digital key. You know well, because it was explained in detail, that the estimated impact of the plan is a rise in the level of gross domestic product by 2.6 percentage points, with respect to what we would have had in the absence of the recovery plan. Here experience is empirical evidence; let us compare the exit from the financial crisis with the exit from the crisis generated by COVID. As the President of the Government pointed out, in one case we are talking about ten or twelve years to recover the levels of GDP, the levels of employment and, in this case, we already have a very strong growth in the economy, and we are at record levels of social security affiliates, of employed people, and at minimum levels of youth unemployment, of temporaryity, of unemployment. That is, it is clear that the recovery plan has already had a significant impact, above all, on expectations in 2020 and 2021, and, from the second part of 2021 and this year, of course, a significant impact on investment. Next year, 2023, the plan will have its maximum countercyclical effect. As for what is happening with the funds and how they are being invested, I refer you and invite you to visit the eight hundred projects that are underway in Navarre, because we are talking about that with the recovery plan already 394 million euros have been invested in your autonomous community. The autonomous government has an important part, 335 million, and I know that they are also working very intensively with the municipalities, in order to try to make the most of this extraordinary opportunity, which is the European funds for our country. I hope - listen carefully - that you will begin to help, truly, and that you will contribute as much as possible to improving our present and our future. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMICS: ARE YOU INSTIGNING THE SYNDICATES TO BE DemonstratED AGAINST THE ENTERPRISES? [[File number 180/001056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u59	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u60	Thank you, President. Minister, are you instigating trade unions to protest against employers? But against what companies, against those that you use to place yourself on the boards of directors, charging millions of dollars when you leave the politics, or against SMEs and self-employed people, who make up 90% of our business fabric and who, because of their fiscal and energy policies, are suffocated? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u61	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u62	Your Honor, if you know the meaning of the verb instigating, the answer is no. But I will tell you that this is the first government that lowers taxes on SMEs, and, yes, it goes up to those that have the most so that it can go down to those that have the least. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u63	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u64	Look, you who are the data minister, I'll tell you that of the companies affiliated with Social Security, 85.3%, 1 118 000, have less than 10 workers, are not multinationals, and 40% of small businesses have closed with losses in the second quarter of 2022; 90,000 remain in a technical bankruptcy situation and there are 350 000 at risk of disappearing. Look, its dynamics are always the same, confrontation, workers and businesses, men and women, rich and poor, and instead of seeking solutions that benefit workers and businesses together, such as, for example, reducing social contributions or lowering taxes, they do not. You know why? Because it only harms you, that with less collection you will have less funding for your mastodontic government of twenty-two ministries, or to continue to water public subsidies to your labor unions, to which this year you have given 17 million euros and we do not know what the salary of your leaders is. Precisely, the independent unions, those who do not dance water to the government, agree with the SMEs and the self-employed in which it is you who must take the measures to solve your economic problem, such as, for example, lowering the energy bill, but really, because with the Iberian exception what you have done is multiply it, or lower the VAT on commodities or deflate the IRPF by granting more liquidity to workers and self-employed people. They also call for genuine labour reform that encourages the creation of lasting and stable jobs, indefinite contracts over time, not in the name. With your punishment policy, all you're getting is more businesses shut down and we're going for 46 000. So, do you know where the workers are going? At the door of your ministry for you to hire them. You know a lot about protesting, but hiring, just with other people's money. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u65	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u66	Your Honor, what unites the Spaniards, you know what it is?: labor reform and not appeal to the Constitutional Court, as you have done with medical discharges. [[Applauds]] I tell you again, Your Honor: the problem of inflation in our country is not caused by wages; therefore, as are the victims, the Government of Spain will continue to protect us and will continue to raise them. I'll tell you again, Your Honor. You are outside the Constitution; moreover, your proposals are unconstitutional. [[rumors]] They do not understand why the Spanish constituent decided something very important, such as placing nothing more and nothing less than in article 7 - that is, in the preliminary title - to social agents, employers and trade unions, as he did, for example, with political parties or - look at - with the Army. They have a problem with the Constitution. Your Honor, I would sincerely ask you to respect the trade unions in this country; first, because they are defending the general interest right now and, secondly, because they represent almost two million workers in your country, not like that little chiringuito you have told us about, who say that it is a trade union, which is dedicated to harassing and insulting political opponents in each of the acts you do. By the way, I would like to tell you again that it is also financed by public money and represents only 0.02%. This is nothing. Your Honor, every time you speak and write, we know your hidden program. We have been fortunate to know the delirious amendment that you have tabled in last week's Employment Act. Look, Your Honor, we already know that what they want now is to lower social security contributions to employers, not casually to workers, and they also want us to pay homeworkers with public taxes. Your Honor, the issue you raise is very serious and, indeed, they hate trade unions, because you know what happens to them? In short, let democracy hinder them. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA VALENTINA MARTINEZ RARRRO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING TO RE-establish RELATIONS WITH ARGELIA? [[File number 180/001059]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u67	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question by María Valentina Martínez Ferro, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u68	Minister, you came as a professional to solve the most serious crisis that Spain has had with Morocco. After months of failure to do so, it occurred to him to send a letter to the king of Morocco with a radical turn in Spain's stance on Western Sahara that broke our relationship with Algeria. So, to fix it, he lied saying that he had informed the Algerians of such a bandit in foreign policy, which caused them to throw their ambassador in Madrid. As it seemed to him little, two months later he accused them of being pro-Russian, getting them to suspend the treaty of friendship and good neighbourliness. His exceptional talent and talent, minister, has led us to break the relationship with one of our most important neighbours and partners, who is also our main supplier of gas. All this has been done in the midst of a war with the biggest energy crisis in the last 50 years. The problem with their incompetence is that it has a direct impact on the lives of the Spaniards: trade has been disrupted, the number of immigrants from Algeria has been triggered, and both the supply and the price of gas are now at stake. So, in the face of such a mess you've achieved, tell us what you're doing to improve the very important relationship we have with Algeria. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u69	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u70	Thank you, President. With Algeria and its Government, we want to have the best relations and it is the friendship that the Spanish people have with the Algerian people, that I am convinced that it will also be from the Algerian people to the Spanish people, who guide them. We want to have the same relations as with all our neighbours and that with the rest of the Arab countries, based on mutual benefit, mutual respect, non-interference in internal affairs, and, of course, always defending the interests of Spain and the interests of Spanish companies. Your Honor, I would like to have a consensus on the Mediterranean with you, but for that I would have to know the positions you have on many issues that you always hide. Diplomacy requires discretion, requires loyalty to the Spanish and requires a sense of state, and you lack all three things, so it is impossible to have a coherent foreign policy with you. On the Sahara, which has evoked it, yesterday I met for the fourth time here in Madrid with the personal envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for Western Sahara, and I reiterated the support of Spain. What I'd like to know is what your position is on Western Sahara. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u71	Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u72	In short, Minister, you have done nothing. This is not a matter of intentions, it wants to have the best relations; this is a matter of facts, of results, and it has no dialogue with Algeria; it does not have it. What happens is that we cannot afford a minister unable to offer a solution because Spanish companies lose EUR 4 400 000 every day in exports; because France, Italy and Portugal are negotiating more gas and at a better price, while Spain has increased by 102% our imports of Russian gas, minister; yes, of Russian gas. This is how you work to improve our credibility abroad. I also ask you one thing, Minister, that we know each other. This is not going to read it any more; it is not going to meet with Maduro's acolytes to talk about energy, which is what you do; this is not going to plug, which we also know is very good for you. This goes for energy, it goes for finesse, it goes for diplomacy, it goes for politics, it goes for Spain's interest. You came to resolve a crisis with Morocco and, without fixing that, what you have achieved is to generate an even bigger crisis with Algeria. Or not? Get off the pedestal and acknowledge that there is no more responsibility than you do not assume, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u73	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u74	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I see that you continue to be on the side of third parties against the interests of Spain and against Spanish companies. [[Applauds]] That can't be expected of a party that has ruled Spain at some point. You have been criticizing for months the joint Spanish-Moroccan declaration of 7 April, which has allowed the border between Ceuta and Melilla to be reopened; the one which will allow the passage of goods; the one which has allowed the increase of trade with Morocco in the course of the year by 30% to the 7 billion euros; the one which has allowed all the migratory routes in Europe to be increased except one, that which comes through Morocco to Spain; the one which has allowed the connectivity to the ports of Tarifa and Algeciras and the Operation Passo del Estrecho, which has left in Malaga and Cadiz 1300 million euros. What bothers you guys about all that? Please, if you are not going to hold your shoulder, if you are not going to support our companies, as the Vice-President of the European Commission, Dombrovskis, of your political family does, at least do not interfere and do not bring here with complete frivolity the interests of Spain. On the issues of her question that have nothing to do with her, I see she embraces the bubbles of the far right. Mr. Feijoo will know why and what to do with it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT TRUST THE WORD OF THE CNI AGENTS? [[File number 180/001049]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u75	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, the question is simple: Do you trust the words of the CNI agents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u77	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Simple answer: The Government respects, recognizes and appreciates the work of the 3,000 men and women working at the National Intelligence Centre, public servants who are at difficult times working for peace, freedom and security in the world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u79	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. It disappoints me enormously. Minister, I recommend you change your advisors. I'm going to read him something: Diego, you who lived and you who suffered the 23F, was the king involved? Diego replies: Totally. The king is the engine of the coup d'état; he always said: Tell me done. Do you know what this is, Minister? It is a conversation between Manuel Rey and Diego Camacho, two former agents of the Spanish intelligence service CESID, today CNI. Specifically, in the 30th minute of the first chapter of Save the King, HBO documentary. So I ask you again: Do you trust the words of the agents of the CNI, the CESID, the Spanish intelligence service? Because, if you trust so much, this is the word of two former agents of the Spanish intelligence service. So I appeal to your patriotism. What are you going to do? Are you going to do something? Because nowadays surely the present king would not need to do what he did before, because today Tejero would not enter here with a gun, would enter with a record of deputy. In fact, there are fifty-two. [[Protests]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u81	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you're referring to a documentary I don't know about, but I'm going to recommend one thing to you. I hope, now that you're running for office, you have time. If you have time, as you follow both the series and the documentaries, follow this new documentary that will come out on the eight men of the National Intelligence Centre who were killed, precisely in Iraq, for working for peace and freedom fighting terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT MAJORITY WILL ARTICULATE FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE AFTER HER APPROVAL IN THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS? [[File number 180/001064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u83	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u84	Minister Montero, the negotiation process is beginning so that the Government can articulate a sufficient majority to approve these budgets and we will surely again be attending a crossing of declarations between the Government and the right-wings in which they accuse each other of not wanting to negotiate and agree. Well, this year we would like the government to be clear, from the beginning, so that we can put the theatre aside and start talking and negotiating to agree on proposals that will improve the lives of the working majority. There's no situation to waste time eating margaritas. I therefore ask you clearly what majority you will try to articulate for the approval of the budgets.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u85	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Aizpurua, I believe that any person and any minister or minister who wants to push forward a bill is trying, as far as possible, to get the widest possible political support within this House and I hope we can take more legislative initiatives unanimously. We will therefore now be prepared to have a dialogue with the parliamentary groups which have not expressed their rejection of the draft budgets, in order to be able to discuss it, as we usually do, and, as I said, we would like to get that broad majority again, which allows the more Spaniards who are represented in this House, the better they can feel reflected in the public accounts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u87	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u88	The truth is that I expected this answer, Minister, to leave the door a little open to the right, but you know as well as I do that there will be no progressive budgets without the agreement of the Basque and Catalan leftist forces that we make up the plurinational majority of this Congress. I would ask you to stop looking at the right because, faced with the inability of the right to bring anything positive to the people, from the left we will negotiate to achieve social and economic improvements for Basques and Basques and the workers of the State and its peoples. We have done so and we will continue to do so, being responsible, yes, but very demanding. You said these days yesterday that these budgets try to respond with social investments to the current needs of the working majority. We believe that much remains to be done and corrected for this because, although we are in a context of crisis, in the face of the resignation that some want to install, we believe that much more can be done to offer alternatives in social protection, in labour improvements, in access to housing, in energy, fiscal policies that reverse the balance in favor of citizenship vis-à-vis the elites; policies that make it, this time, paid by the rich. Mrs. Montero, it is you who must win a majority, do not forget. That is why we hope that you will come to this negotiation with an attitude of listening, negotiating and collecting the proposals that we are going to make to you. We will work with discretion and seriousness to try to reach good agreements, but remember that we are not bound to any inertia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u90	Thank you, President. Mrs Aizpurua, I think it is obvious and notorious that any vote, any support from the parliamentary groups for this government costs you work, it costs you effort, it costs you capacity for dialogue. It is clear that there is no blank check on the part of any political formation to be able to process these budgets; budgets for the social majority of our country; budgets that are good, that are fair with the vast majority of Spaniards, that drive the productive fabric, that therefore contribute to social well-being and also to the economic efficiency that we all have to achieve. I told him that I hope he will have the unanimous support of the House, because it would be good to send a message to the whole of the markets for the coming year and to have as many as possible, better within the draft budgets with their proposals, their improvements and everything they want to contribute to. Unfortunately, we have already heard some opinions, mainly from the People's Party, from Mr Feijóo, who, before presenting the draft budgets, was already calling them bad, was already condemning the draft budgets themselves. But, of course, a political leader who denies that there are poor in this country, who says that the debate between rich and poor is an old debate that can be expected. Of course, it does not support public accounts that allocate much of the expenditure to social expenditure. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ANDRÉS LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT THINKS TO RECOGNIZE ALL THE RAILWAY SERVICES IT SUPPORTED WITH REASON FOR PANDEMIA? [[File number 80/001060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u91	Question addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Andrés Lorite Lorite, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u92	Madam Minister, the progressive deterioration in the quality of public services has been a constant since you ruled. Thus, rail mobility is becoming scarcer and more expensive every day. A means of transport that is fundamental to climate neutrality, territorial vertebration and social cohesion is suffering from cuts in frequency, increase in the price of train tickets, permanent delays, cancellations and constant incidences. It is heard during these days to talk a lot about a short-term measure: that bonus of the railway bonus. However, as I say, it is a short-term measure that will end, despite being extended. However, you do not assume any responsibility for structural conditions that railway services have. Madam Minister, are you going to rectify or are we going to continue with the deterioration and dismantling of railway services? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u93	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u94	The truth is that I cannot share - because it is not true - his view of the quality of public service, in this case of the commercial services provided in our country and, above all, with regard to rail services. If the People's Party government was characterized by something, it is because of its lack of foresight, and that has certainly made things very difficult for us. In addition, you should also bear in mind that over the past few years we have suffered a pandemic, which knows that it also forced us to restructure the level of services that were provided, but that they have now virtually all been replenished and that it will be completed in the coming months, as the new drivers are being incorporated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u95	Mr. Lorite.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u96	Minister, you have recovered one hundred percent of the frequencies on your land, in Catalonia, but in the rest of Spain, why not? Minister, why don't the night trains recover? Your Honor, why are you failing to comply with Renfe's employment plan, which means that there is no relieving in the drivers and, therefore, there are frequency suspensions? The shortcomings in the neighbourhoods are precisely the case, Mrs Sánchez, because you have not complied with the implementation of the investments made to you by the former People's Party Government. If we talk about disinvestment, we have many more examples in other infrastructures, such as the Mediterranean-Atlantic Corridor, the Mediterranean, or its summer bump with the extreme train of shame, which circulates at 80 kilometers/hour and does not connect Extremadura with any other place. Madam Minister, you have fired with your fare system the prices of the train ticket, but not only of travelers, also Renfe Mercancias has done it for the year 2022. Your Honor, will you continue with your frenzy of insults to the People's Party and our President Feijoo? Will you continue to abandon the management of railway mobility? I assure you, Mrs Sánchez, that that is not up to what Spain needs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u97	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u98	Mr Lorite, what this Government and I are focusing on is improving the quality of public services and ensuring that, despite the circumstances, despite the complex environment, no citizens are left behind. We are focusing on that and that too has a direct reflection on the measures that we are taking, measures that the Minister of Finance announced yesterday that will be extended during the next year 2023, such as the gratuitousness of the vicinity, the medium distance and some routes of AVANT and long-distance. That is what this Government is going to do, but it will also continue to implement its projects and improvement commitments throughout the railway service and the entire railway infrastructure. I'll give you an example. This year in the budgets of 2022, the budget for the conventional line is higher than that for high speed. That is a sign that we are concerned and that we are working to improve the services of mobility, of daily mobility, of the one that affects and that, above all, they enjoy the social majority of this country: the workers, and the students. We're putting in place a renovation of all the trains. We have also launched the largest recruitment offer for drivers in recent years, something you did not do when you were ruling. As he said earlier, his Government was characterized by the lack of planning, the lack of forecasting and, above all, the vision of the future, which was necessary to ensure the good quality of the provision of public services. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT [[EAJ-PNV]] MANAGEMENT IS GOVERNING THE GOVERNMENT TO INSURANCE THE FUTURE OF VOLKSWAGEN NAVARRA? [[File number 180/001051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u99	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question from Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u100	Thank you, President. Minister, there is great concern in Navarre about the Volkswagen plant, which is a key company not only in terms of GDP but also because of its weight in employment: 5000 direct jobs and 10,000 indirect jobs. Worry, therefore, on four fronts. First, how the VEC PART is developing. Volkswagen has received funding of 167 million, well below initial expectations, which can slow down the investments that have to be made in the plant and can also get the German company to make decisions, such as Ford, to abandon the PERTE. In addition, it should not be forgotten that Ford has announced a reduction of its investments, which can also affect the Landaben plant, because there is a global agreement between the two for the development of an electric vehicle MEB platform, which will allow a much more flexible manufacture and with larger models. The second concern is about business decisions, which are going to affect employability and which are hardly going to guarantee current staffing levels. The Navarra plant, due to the energy crisis, the prices and the microchip crisis, does not at present have a sufficient volume of production to guarantee the current level of the workforce, much less when, on the one hand, it has been decided to derive 50 000 units of vehicles from the Landaben production programme to Martorell, whose plant does have that level of workforce assured, and on the other hand, it is clear that the production of the electric car requires less labour intensity than the combustion car, which will also reduce the workforce. Thirdly, concern about how this excess of labour will be addressed in the future; a reduction in staffing that will not be possible under the relief contract formula, which has so far allowed the rejuvenating of staff for each pre-retired person, and all this because the changes that allow flexibility in that relief contract are completed on 31 December. And, fourth and last concern, the need for the disappearance of the railway loop to suppress the path that passes through the plant; a work that today becomes indispensable for its future development. That is why we ask you: what steps is the government taking to ensure the future of the Volkswagen plant in Navarre?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u101	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u102	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for asking me this question and above all for asking me the uncertainties, so that I can give certainty. Since the ministry, as you know, when we arrived in 2018, we set ourselves a priority, which was to modernize the automotive industry in Spain and clearly all its production plants, including the Volkswagen plant in Navarre. You were referring to the relief contract. It will surely be remembered that one of the first things I had to do when I arrived at the Ministry of Industry was to go to Navarre to talk to the plant's trade unions, which claimed the relief contract, which was not guaranteed because there was supposedly an amendment that the People's Party had not taken care of and that we - with a responsibility that we have always developed in our public policy - approved and were able to give confidence that the relief contract, as his lordship has rightly pointed out, would be in force until the end of this year. Right now it is on the table negotiating so that it can be extended and, therefore, give guarantees of continuity of a contract that, of course, the Landaben plant and its workers are demanding. He was talking about uncertainties linked to an investment to be made in the railway branch. He knows that the Government of Navarre has announced that it will make EUR 40 million available to that branch. It is therefore already a certainty that it gives confidence today but not only from the investments that we are making by the Spanish Government, but also from the investments that are being made in all the autonomous communities, which are working with the Government to ensure the future of the automotive industry, are developing. Finally, I will mention some of the certainties linked to the call for the LOSS. As you know, it is currently meeting in the follow-up committee to assess all the allegations we have received, after making the publication of the provisional call - I insist, provisional -. There are indeed data, but we still have a margin to assess, something that will undoubtedly be very important to give certainty and certainty, because I do guarantee that if there is something priority in our agenda, it is that the automotive industry is a leader. The data we have known this week - the second consecutive month of enrollment growth and being electric vehicles the first alternative of purchase - show that we are on the right track. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u103	Mrs. Sagastizabal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, and let us hope that what you have announced to us today will be brought to a good end. The reality is that we need more involvement in all the concerns we have shown you, thousands of jobs depend on it. In addition, we need to ensure fairness and balance between the different plants, especially when a PART is at stake that tries to transform the productive plants. Because governments are to mediate, protect, support and generate conditions of competitiveness to strengthen sectors in the territories, grow, maintain and generate employment. And this is what we're asking for. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAQUÍN MARÍA GARCÍA DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: HOW ARE YOU GOING TO FIND THE EXPULSION OF AN IMPORTANT PART OF OUR FISHERIES OF 87 AREAS OF THE NORTHERN ATLANTIC? [[File number 180/001061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u105	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Joaquín María García Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u106	Minister, today exactly eighteen years have passed since he first intervened as a fishing spokesman in this Congress. I have followed many issues since then, but none as worrying or as serious as that which is about to be completed this Sunday, with the expulsion of hundreds of ships from 87 fishing areas. They are historic caladeros that will be abandoned to protect vulnerable marine spaces but without protecting our fishermen, without protecting their way of life, without protecting areas like Celeiro and Burela, in my province, which have as their way of being fishing. You have not been able to defend them in these years, and that is why I ask you: what immediate actions do you intend to take? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u107	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, the Spanish Government is taking all the measures that are necessary and that are in its hand to oppose this executive regulation that emanates from a basic regulation adopted when it ruled the People's Party, so you will know something about this. [[Laughter]] From there, we do agree that this is an absolutely disproportionate and unfair measure, which is why contact with the fisheries sector and its representatives, confreres and PESCA, as well as with the autonomous communities concerned, is assessing all the situations that have arisen and the response to them. Furthermore, we are trying to clarify the terms of application of this executive regulation of 15 September, which was published in the Official Journal on 19 September, which is really very complex, and where there are many aspects that, of course, are highly damaging to our fleet. Be assured that this Government will do everything in its power in this regard. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u109	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u110	You have told us that it always goes to the result, and the one obtained so far is disappointing. The reality is that, in these years, you have not been able to add more allies to this cause. It has not been able to bring together a broader front to avoid this unfair decision by the European Commission. Now he's mobilizing because he's being asked for all the voices. He also said that he was the first to warn of this situation in July. Minister, that's not true. In March and April, the autonomous communities and the sector were already meeting in their ministry - to inform him then - to address this issue. And if, as you just said, from so far back, you didn't have enough time to prepare and set up a winning resource for this cause? [[Applauds]] He says he doesn't want to file an appeal, he wants to win it. It seems good to me, but if you don't present it now, in four days hundreds of ships from our fleet will leave these areas without any alternative. That is why I say to you, Minister, that every day you spend since Sunday with the boats tied up and the ruin of your crew, the responsibility will be yours alone. The sector and the five autonomous communities have told him that we must go together with one voice, that of the Government of Spain. You've never had so much backup behind you. Look, we are the first European fishing power, and that is why I ask you to present the resource now. Fight for a temporary suspension and for the Commission to review its decision. By the way, I haven't seen the president of the people's government deal with these people yet. Count it. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u111	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, Mr García Díez, I will indeed confirm to you that the Government of Spain is going to bring this action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. He announced it at the time. [[Applauds]] And it will do so because it assumes the representation of the whole sector and defends its interests. Firstly, because it considers that scientific information is insufficient and outdated, and secondly, because the economic and social aspects of this decision have not been taken into account either. You will allow me, following your comments, which have surprised me sincerely, to say something to you. When you want to defend the interests of our fishermen, the fishing sector, and the interests of Spain, the People's Party has it very easily: you support the Government of Spain, you support the action of the Government of Spain. We are doing this by the hand of the sector and of the autonomous communities, and I hope that you will not seek any excuse, as you are always looking for, not to support the Government of Spain and not to support the interests of the majority, which in this case are the interests of our fishermen. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE KANDAMIL KINGDOM, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT ACTIONS SHALL BE TAKEN THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD BEFORE THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION'S DECISION TO CLOSE 87 CALADERS TO THE FUNDAL ARTS, A MEASURES WHICH WILL HAVE A VERY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE ACTIVITY OF THE FLOTS OF THE SPANISH STATE, IN PARTICULARLY IN THE GALLEG? [[File number 180/001050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u113	Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Let us be clear: what action will your ministry take, in addition to the appeal, to the European Commission's decision to close 87 milestones for the basic arts, a measure that will have a very negative impact on the Galician fleet?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u115	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, since the European Commission became aware of the start of this procedure, the Spanish Government has carried out an opposition action which took place on the contrary vote in an advisory committee with Ireland, which led to 9 abstentions and the non-participation of the Member States in the non-adoption of an opinion in this respect. I have also spoken on several occasions with the Commissioner and the Secretary-General for Fisheries and with the Commission services. Last Monday, 26 September, I raised this issue with France and Ireland in the Council of Ministers and asked the European Commission to suspend the application of this regulation, which it refused. And I have just announced that we are actually going to go to the Court of Justice, which is the highest legal instrument we have at our disposal. The subject - I said a moment ago - has enough complexity from the point of view of its application, since we are talking about depths of between 400 and 800 meters, but we have detected that some of the polygons or areas to which it refers are less than 400 meters and others are more than 800 meters, which automatically applies the prohibition of bottom trawling. We are going with the European Commission to try to clarify this and, moreover, I have already announced to the Commissioner that, since it has announced that there will be a review now in November, we are going to use it to, of course, reverse this decision which the Government considers to be profoundly unfair to our fisheries sector. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u117	Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u118	Minister, as you acknowledged in your reply to a question from the BNG in June, and as you have just ratified today, the decision of the European Commission is not based on up-to-date scientific reports and does not include socio-economic impact reports. Furthermore, he said that there was no proper consultation of the sectors concerned, it was a modus operandi that could set a dangerous precedent. I want to make it clear that the BNG defends the sustainability of the seas and policies aimed at restoring biodiversity, which also guarantees the future for the fisheries sector. But a decision of these characteristics, with the impact it will have on Galicia's sector and economy, must be taken with scientific rigour, also taking into account the socio-economic variable. You know that the fleet segment that uses bottom gear in Galicia will lose most of its catches, engaging many ships at the cessation of activity and scrapping, and generating loss of hundreds of direct jobs and many more indirect ones. It's unacceptable. So far, we've seen the Ministry of Doubtful and Unclear Fishing. You confirm that there will be recourse and we believe that it is essential, but insufficient, because the regulation comes into force on day 9. The precautionary suspension must be requested and all possible political pressure deployed by the State. The Government can and must do more than it is doing - much more - including articulating a common front of administrations with the sector and representative trade unions. The IGC, for example, has already advanced in the presentation of the appeal to mobilizations that begin in Galicia this Saturday. In addition, it is essential that the Spanish Government and the Galician Government implement compensatory measures for the duration of the ban on fishing in these areas. Because, Minister, if this crisis were to affect the bank, we would already have a rescue plan on the table. For fishing, where is it? That is why, Minister, you asked him: will he press for the Commission to review the decision in November on the basis of new reports? What compensatory measures will be put in place for the sector for the duration of the ban? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u119	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. As I said a moment ago, we are actually going to introduce this remedy, on the basis of two considerations. Firstly, the most up-to-date scientific information available was on the Commission's table, and it has not been taken into account, and secondly, modalities such as, for example, the background longline, which was not included in the ICES report, have been included. That's reason enough. We are going to discuss this with the Commission from now on in order to try to see that this decision is actually reviewed in November, in agreement and in coordination with the sector and the autonomous communities concerned. Beyond this, of course, there is a problem of balance. The Spanish Government obviously defends the health of the funds of our seas and oceans, but it has to be done absolutely in proportion to the interests of our fishermen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: DO YOU THINK THE FOOD PROCESSING LAW IS COMPLETED? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u122	Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you satisfied with the degree of compliance with the food chain law?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u124	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Agirretxea, the food chain law came into force in mid-December. Since then, I think it has had its effects. We are at a very difficult time of increasing costs arising from the war in Ukraine. In this context, as in 2008, for example, all the repercussions were on the weakest link in the chain, i.e. farmers and livestock farmers. At the moment I believe that we have already achieved a positive impact with a more balanced distribution along the chain, with greater transparency and, of course, in defence of our farmers and farmers. The full effects of such a substantive change as the food chain law cannot be achieved in nine months, but we are moving forward and I think it is giving its first results. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u126	Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, indeed, as you have said, it will soon be a year since the food chain law was passed and, unfortunately, for some links in the chain it seems that the law is not being complied with in the terms in which it was intended. Among other reasons, because the reference production costs are not being established, real costs can then be established as a basis for the conclusion of the sales contracts and can subsequently be controlled by AICA. Because one of the determining factors in the success of the development of the food chain law is the inspection plan. Minister, do you think the inspection plan and its implementation are being adequate? Do you value them positively? Because we, if we echo the voices of the sector and also of other entities, see that it is not being very efficient in its work. We do not know the plan, nor what sectors are to be inspected, nor the number of these, etc. Minister, dairy farmers are publicly declaring that they are producing losses. Production costs are around 0.52 cents per litre and what they receive, the state average, is around 0.46 cents. You are all aware of this reality, and so are you. If that is the case, that situation cannot be allowed. We would like to know what steps are being taken from your ministry to detect, control and sanction, if any, all these actions. And what about some conditions, like the slips that are set out in the contracts between producers and distributors. The sector is also reporting that these are conditions that in most cases are almost imposed. In addition, there are a number of other issues that are reflected in the law, which are obviously to be fulfilled, such as, for example, something as necessary for the regal community as the hiring of dual power. It is in an additional provision that, at the initiative of my group, was introduced into the food chain law. The first additional provision reads: 'The Government will make it possible to hire two power stations throughout the year, discriminating against the irrigation and non-irrigation times...'. Why is it not implemented, Minister? What are you waiting for? Farmers, regents need to know why it is not being fulfilled. For all this, Minister, we do not believe that the chain law is being properly implemented and, among other things, that bad practice is not being controlled...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Agirretxea, as I have already answered in my first reply, we obviously need time for law enforcement, but it is already taking effect. You have mentioned a sector - milking - where in the last twelve months the pay to our farmers has been substantially increased. Is this retribution sufficient in this context? We have identified this sector as the most vulnerable in the formation of food chain prices. That is why, when the Spanish Government approved extraordinary aid to the primary sector, it has made this sector, with 169 million euros and more than 20 500 beneficiaries, the priority in the action of our Government, as well as the meat production sector, the livestock sector and the citrus sector. As for the application of the law and its future, as of January we will have the registration of electronic contracts. Producer organizations and interprofessionals are collaborating in the development of price indices, as well as the public administrations themselves, the autonomous communities. Indeed, AICA's inspection plan, which has so far carried out 6,100 inspections with 3,100 sanctioning procedures, clearly shows that there is a commitment from the Government, but a commitment from the Government that must also be that of the autonomous communities in the implementation of this law, which is so important for the whole sector. I think we've made some progress, but we've got work to do... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT FORCE THE DEMISSION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE RTVE CORPORATION? [[File number 180/001062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u131	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u132	Minister, I was going to ask you why the government forced the resignation of the president of Spanish Radio Television, but yesterday the Council of Ministers answered us, considering once again the contempt you have for this House. They ended the independence of Spanish Radiotelevision using a cheating shortcut, granting all executive powers to the interim president without having Congress. How? With the agreement of the Council of Ministers yesterday that the statutes of Spanish Radio Television were charged. All this with a single objective: the strict control of the information, that which you are given so well, and of course not, that of the purchase of the programs. Everything with a view to what? The upcoming elections, an example of greed in the control of the public media and a bad start for the interim president. Ladies and gentlemen, this totalitarian government adds Spanish Radio-television to the list of political occupations of the institutions it has carried out. Its voraciousness has no end - CNI, CIS, the Attorney General's Office, the National Securities Market Commission - and now even the embassies suffer its interventionist vigour with the appointment of the husband of an ex-minister at the Washington Embassy. How much damage they are causing to the quality of our democracy and our prestige as a nation. Still, he asked: why have they forced the resignation of the president of Spanish Radiotelevision? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u133	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Your Honor. Frankly, I find it very daring that the People's Party is concerned about the independence of public television, because it was you who appointed the president of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation to a gentleman who in parliamentary office said that he was from the PP, who voted for the PP, who would vote for the PP all his life; moreover, he appeared in the papers of Bárcenas, that case of corruption that ran through Genoa 13, from the first to the last floor - surely they have not forgotten it -. [[applause]] Therefore, Your Honor, it seems to me a little daring that you come here to worry about the independence of public television. With regard to the specific question you ask me, no pressure whatsoever. [[Rumors]] A personal decision of the former president of Spanish Radiotelevision. The Government has very little to say. You just have to respect her. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u135	Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u136	Minister, the course you are taking in your ministry with public money on emotional intelligence is seen to have had no effect on you. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I would like to remind you that there is a Constitutional ruling that says that you illegally elected Rosa María Mateo to be the sole administrator. Therefore, lessons, Minister, the just. You have shown us once again that you have no scruples, because what you want is to put Spanish Radio Television at the service of official government propaganda, that is, twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week - as they say, the NODO - of your dearest government president and fellow minister and one of the architects of the great operation that took place yesterday. The self-attack that the government has now given on television radio will end up scaring the little audience that is already left, and not only that, but it will serve - in that you will be delighted - the producer friends in the future programming of Spanish Radio Television. Minister, this new assault on the institutions demonstrates the totalitarian features of your government and the partisan use of the institutions, but also its despair, because they are losing the confidence of the Spanish every day... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u139	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u140	Look, four years of protest, black Fridays on Galician television named by Mr. Feijoo denouncing informational manipulation. That's his model. [[Rumors]] Of course, it's no wonder, when the news director of Galician television was an Speaker of the People's Party. Mr. Feijoo decided to put it on Galician television. [[Applauds]] If you want, we're talking about Telemadrid, that TV devoured by the gross and absolute manipulation of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] Ode Canal Nou, which you directly liquidated. Look, we're not the same, we're not the same. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Nooo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u141	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u142	We try to ensure that there are reinforced majorities to choose the direction of Spanish Television. And look, when there is a situation of interinity, what we try to guarantee is that there is normality in the management of Spanish Television and not forcing it to collapse, as you want. However, one question, and I conclude: Do you want to renew the presidency of Spanish Television, do we consent to it or will you also block it? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE PEDRO NAVARRO LÓPEZ DEPUTATE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF SCIENCE AND INNOVATION: DO YOU THINK THE APPLICATION TO ALBERGATE THE HEAD OF THE EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY IS 'MENOMOCRATIC, CRETAINER AND LESS INNOVATIVE' IN THE FUNCTION OF THE AUTONEM COMMUNITY THAT REALIZES IT? [[File number 180/001063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u143	Question addressed to the Minister for Science and Innovation. Question by Mr Pedro Navarro López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u144	Thank you, Madam President. An entire Minister of the Presidency has remained to oppose the Government of the Xunta de Galicia. What are you left with, Mr. Bolaños? [[Applauds]] If you want to talk about manipulation of television, look to your right; Mr. Planas has just left, but you can tell him what Chaves and Griñán did with Canal Sur when they ruled at the Junta de Andalucia. Look, we had an astronaut minister and it had to be the head of the cabinet of the president of the government who announced the creation of the Spanish Space Agency, demonstrating that the PSOE politicizes everything from the beginning. You promised, Minister, a transparent, open and competitive process, and what we have found is that you insult two of the candidates, namely the mayors of Tres Cantos, of 48,000 inhabitants, and Robledo de Chavela, of 4800, calling them less democratic, more idiotic and less innovative for daring to defend their neighbours. These are statements that can influence her partner - now she is not -, the Minister of Territorial Policy, who decides and who, in addition and casually, is ex-mayor of one of the municipalities concerned. The minister of science insults, although she does not decide, and the minister she decides was the mayor of one of the interested. You will understand that we have more than doubts in this process. Why do you think a government that is not the Socialist Party is less democratic, more idiotic and less innovative if you are interested in a seat? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u145	Minister of Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Navarro, you've often been touched by a piece of paper here today. He is a deputy for Aragón and has come to defend the interests of the President of the Community of Madrid at the Congress of Deputies, which defends that Spain is Madrid, but which ends in the M-30. [[Rumors]] Since we are and that you have come running to help Madam President Ayuso, surely to make points, and you have done so so quickly that you are actually asking me, in the written question, by the European Space Agency - I will not take it into account - could the People's Party clarify its position regarding the commitment to deconcentration of the General Administration of the State... [[rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u147	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u148	...and the institutions of the General Administration of the State by the People's Party? I'd like to know what Feijóo thinks or what he thinks, for example, Mr... [[rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u149	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u150	I would like to know whether Mr Moreno Bonilla does not want to host an entity of the General Administration of the State in Andalusia or whether Mr Mañueco does not want to do so in his autonomous community or Mr López Miras and if, therefore, the People's Party is again being led by Mrs Ayuso and her commitment to Madrid, which becomes a Madrid nationalism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u151	Mr. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u152	What he wants to go to the opposition and how clear he is if he's asking Feijóo and the People's Party all the time. Here we ask ourselves and you answer. [[Applauds]] I will tell you very clearly: your colleague and Science spokesman of the Socialist Party wants the agency to go to León, which is its locality; I, as Aragonese, want you to go to Teruel, of course; the former Mayor of Puertollano, who decides, will want you to go to Puertollano. But this is the BOE of today - you have chosen wrong day to oppose any government of the People's Party - and in the BOE of today you, who wants to decentralize, says - listen, minister - that to evaluate a headquarters of the Space Agency will be especially valued that it has high speed train, international airport with flights - listen, minister - to Brussels, to Paris, Amsterdam, to Rome, to Frankfurt, to Prague to Toulouse. [[shows it.]] [[Laughter]] Get out of the official car and tell me which localities of decentralized Spain have this, get out of the official car and tell me where these requirements are met in emptied Spain, because of all, only one. [[applause]] [[Prolonged applause.-Rumors.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u153	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u154	Thank you, Madam President. I see that you come here again as a Member of the Madrid Community. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-A honourable Member: From Spain!]] I'll give you some data. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u155	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u156	I'll give you some data. The Community of Madrid is the second largest investment in R & D in Spain. [[Mr Navarro López shows a document]] If we talk about public investment, it is the first in all of Spain, but if we start to remove from that public investment the investment that the General Administration of the State makes through the CSIC, the ISCIII, the ICEMAT or the State Agency of Meteorology, if we remove everything that the rest of Spain invests and leave only the budget of the Community of Madrid, the Community of Madrid remains the third in line in investment in R & D. Therefore, the commitment of the Government of Spain is to give opportunities throughout the territory, just as the Community of Madrid has taken advantage of these opportunities throughout history. [[Rumors.-Mr. Navarro López shows a document]] Mr. Navarro, I'm sorry to tell you that you should know a little more Spain and know that there are many... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u157	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u158	...other cities and territories in Spain with capabilities and potential. [[Applause.- Rumors.- Mr Navarro López shows a document]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL ELORRIAGA PISARIK, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: WHAT DID THE LORD MINISTER WANT TO SAY WITH HIS PROPOSAL TO RECENTALIZE TAXES GRANTED TO THE AUTONOMIES? [[File number 180/001048]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u160	Questions to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Gabriel Elorriaga Pisarik, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u161	Minister, it has been a couple of weeks since your controversial statements on the end of the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities. You said that it would be necessary to reduce the space for communities to decide fiscal policy and then qualify fiscal competition as a misconception that only occurs in Spain. You cannot ignore the constitutional anchoring of the regulatory capacity of communities in tax matters. Nothing can surprise us now. The Minister of Finance has lacked time to follow her advice and launch a new step now through a flagrant and disloyal invasion of autonomous powers. You, like your entire government, are a federalist of convenience, decentralizer when it comes to raising taxes and centralism when others try to lower them. That's why he asked her the question. Do you really consider, as you said, that the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Communities is a waste of money? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u162	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u163	I didn't say all that. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] It has also been said that it was using recentralisation, that it appeared in its original question and that now I see that it has been removed, because it will have proved that I did not say so. What I said - and I don't say it, but many people say it and have been saying it by a multitude of experts - is that fiscal competition between autonomous communities must be limited in order to strengthen the welfare state. This is what I say and what a lot of people say, and above all most experts in the field of autonomous financing and federal politics say. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u164	Mr. Elorriaga.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u165	Finally, we have heard him say that the right-wing media are distorting what he says on other occasions in this House. Maybe it's his clever intelligence that goes faster than his words, but the truth is that the quotes I've made are literal and recorded. What is happening in this Government, and that is the truth, is that in the face of every problem a tax is invented, and when the problem gets bigger, what happens almost always, far from rectifying, increases the fiscal haze. Spain ranks among the countries of our environment with the highest marginal rates in income, in societies and in wealth, where it has remained. It is the OECD country where the most fiscal pressure has risen in 2020 and, therefore, it is also the country that is taking the longest to reach its pre-pandemic economic level. Eighty years ago a comedy by the geniuses Mihura and Tono, neither poor nor rich, but quite the contrary, was premiered in Madrid. What seemed like a joke of absurdity has become a reality today. The Government sees the Spanish as a kind of magma that is truly incomprehensible. For you, ten million taxpayers with incomes below EUR 14,000 are not poor and do not deserve to benefit from the timid tax cuts, neither in income nor in VAT, but those who earn more than 21,000 are despicable rich, deserving of the greatest tax burden in times of crisis. That's why I insist on the question. When constant downward revisions of Spanish growth are announced, do you really believe that consolidating structural public spending and raising fiscal pressure, punishing private consumption and investment, is a good idea? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u166	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u167	Indeed, it is difficult to find an example of further twisting of data in search of a narrative that is truly wrong and false. If you go, not to this strange handling of data, but to objective sources, to the European Commission, for example, when you evaluate Spanish fiscal policy, you will see that it does not highlight this from the marginal rates you say, but it does highlight that we are the country of Europe with the most tax benefits, and that makes us have an income in relation to GDP in which we are among the lowest in Europe. That's what stands out. And when you make recommendations to us, you tell us: you strengthen your tax system and look at your entire tax benefit system and evaluate it well. That is the first thing the European Commission tells us when it examines us. He doesn't do that data handling, really. And what the European Commission tells us and what all the experts tell us is that Spain has a constitutional system where it gives autonomous communities a huge responsibility in maintaining the welfare state, in health, education, dependency or social services. Virtually no federal state in the world, with the exception of Australia, has this extension of autonomous powers in the field of the welfare state. What do you have to do then? To create a financing system that is consistent with such extensive welfare State social services that promote the quality and efficiency of public services. What citizens are looking for is precisely that, that the autonomous communities give them quality services in health, education and dependence, and what they are not looking for is a fiscal competition, which leads us nowhere, only to the deterioration of the welfare state. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA FERNANDEZ PEREZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WHAT MEASURES IS GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE BEFORE THE INCREASE OF MIGRANTS THAT ARE COMING TO CANARIES BY MARITIME? [[File number 180/001034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u168	Question by María Fernández Pérez, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I listened to you yesterday in the Senate say - I repeat your words - that Africa is Africa, that the geography of Spain and the Canary Islands is what it is and that in the Canary Islands today there is no migration problem. Minister, I think you need to take a walk through the islands and stop looking at that data in a paper from a Madrid office, because the coldness of distance is not making you see that at our expense every day - today too - people arrive on the deadliest migratory route in Europe. I repeat the question in response to your words yesterday. If there really is no migration problem, is your ministry doing nothing to solve a non-existent problem or is doing something to solve a problem that does not exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u170	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u171	In a few hours I leave for the Canary Islands. It's the autonomous community I've visited most: I think it's my fifth visit. I have kicked all the islands, I have been at the pier of Arguineguin, I have been in the reception centers and I have been with SASEMAR when they welcome people who come in pateras and have problems in the water. That you tell me that I have not kicked the Canaries extraordinarily surprised me. I can really tell you that you don't follow my schedule. [[Applauds]] He went to the bottom of the matter. Of course, this Government is doing a lot in the area of migration, and there are two fundamental levers: working with countries of origin and promoting regular, orderly and secure migration mechanisms. Those are the two levers on which we are working more than ever, as no Government has done. And that's what I'm willing to discuss, of course. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u172	Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u173	Minister, you don't go for a walk, you go for work. Don't shirk your responsibility. If there have been so many walks - I don't have to follow your schedule - you will have seen that there canarian citizenship is organized to collect clothes and food to take you to those centers, of which you presume. Do we really have to congratulate ourselves that only 12,500 people have arrived at our shores? Do we really have to congratulate ourselves on the fact that 3800 arrived last September and only 2000 this September? They're human beings, Minister. I'll tell you one thing: this isn't solved by promising money that never comes. Are you going to tell me about the dismantling of the CIEs? I live there and I know that the Socialist Party voted in favour of the closure of these centres. This is not solved with money, creating large infrastructures, the Canary Islands is not and should not be a prison. Don't leave us alone, Minister. I know we are the south of the south, but what we are asking of you is a more humanitarian policy and management. We're not asking for anything else. I repeat that this is not solved with large prisons and money, it is solved with solidarity, with a real involvement of the Spanish Government and involving Europe in a decent migration policy. And I'll tell you more, Minister. They lie about their dual discourse of migrant minors: 2700 remain under the supervision of the Government of the Canary Islands. The President of the Government of the Canary Islands, his party partner, has asked for help and neither you nor the Government has given it to him. I don't like to talk about this here, but this is humanity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u175	I imagine it has been an abuse of language to call prisons to the reception centers that keep the ministry with the Red Cross, with Accem, with the White Cross and with a lot of NGOs with which we work together. It has called the reception centres prisons, when they have been assessed by the European Commission as the first level; that is, we have the standards of reception for the best in the European Union. The President of the European Commission the other day said that the migration policy in Spain is exemplary, fulfils its duty and is the most humanitarian it can be. This is what those who objectively evaluate us tell us. At this time our reception system, those immigration reception centres, which you call prisons - I would like you to visit them so that you can come here and correct those words -, with very high humanitarian standards, are today at 30%. Do you know why they're at 30%? Because we make an integral migration policy in Spain. The Canary Islands spend about a month and a half or two months and then we distribute them throughout our reception centres, because we have to make an integral policy, and that is what we have done. No, the Canary Islands is no ghetto. They come to the Canary Islands because - I insist - it has the geography that it has - neither you nor I will be able to change - and Africa is where it is and has the famines that it has. From there what needs to be done is to manage, and what I think we need to have are responsibility policies and state policies on migration issues, not these... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u176	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u177	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the independence and impartiality of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and to put an end to political interference in this public service. They're gonna share their time. For your defence you have the floor, first of all, Mr Gil Lázaro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are talking today about Spanish Radio Television because it is a real scandal, and it is a real scandal because this government is a real scandal because of its contempt for the laws and regulations of this House, for its contempt for what this House represents, for its contempt for the constitutional duty to submit to the control of representatives of national sovereignty. Yesterday afternoon the Secretariat of State for Relations with the Courts sent a letter saying that it had the honour to request, under Rule 188.4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, the postponement of the question that we had put to the Minister of the Presidency today. The Secretary of State for Relations with the Courts invokes the...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u179	Mr. Gil Lázaro, I have to ask you please to get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u180	The question, Madam President, is to denounce a trapide of this government, such as those it is committing on Spanish Radio Television. [[Applauds]] You have to motivate the cause, as required by 188.4, for which the postponement is requested, and you could not motivate it because you knew that the Minister of the Presidency would be - you are present - and that the Minister of Territorial Administration would be - you are present - to which you could have referred the question. Look, you guys...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u181	Mr Gil Lázaro, I ask you to go to the question of the Spanish Radio Television. [[The Presidency disconnects the speaker's rostrum microphone while Mr Gil Lázaro continues to speak]] Mr. Gil Lazarus, I have to ask you, please, to get to the point. [[Protests.-Mr. Gil Lázaro continues to speak.-A Member of Parliament: What a shame!]] Mr. Robles, don't shout, please. Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u182	Don Felix Bolaños, you're here, aren't you? You are so politically supportive that you cancel a parliamentary question because, theoretically, you had something to do elsewhere. Are you Don Félix Bolaños the minister? Yeah? Don't you? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] He tells me not with his head. It's just that I have to ask the minister. Minister of propaganda and public illustration, I never thought we'd miss Don Iván Redondo, a great professional. I never thought we would have to review once again all that you have done in order not to maintain the independence or impartiality of Spanish Broadcasting. Yesterday we had a debate, which you missed, on a proposal, which did not advance - by the way, congratulations on the bravery of the PP abstaining - to ensure that there was greater control over Spanish Television and the EFE Agency. [[Applauds]] Today it seems to be courageous, courageous ministers who avoid questions about whether a referendum will be held in coordination with their partners in Catalonia. That has not been answered because you have neither courage nor political courage. [[The lady]] What have you done with Spanish Television? When I say you two, I mean the two bands, a rather absent one. We've had decades of sectarian television. We have suffered Rosa María Mateo and, as she defined, her horrific television. She was a temporary administrator, but in the end we had her for months and months - by the way, unforgettable afternoons and mornings of glory we had in the control sessions -. We suffered from the ridiculous process of choosing counselors. The Four Pes, PSOE, People's Party, Podemos and PNV, chose their advisors and ignored the list, ascending to those who had suspended, to whom a committee of experts, who lacked respect, had chosen for their merit and ability, and ascended you, the four pes, to the most clumsy, to the most useless, to those who did not cross the line. But, of course, if that's what you do to choose your public representatives, how are you not going to do that too to control Spanish Broadcasting. [[Applauds]] Then we have suffered a certain Pérez Tornero, aka the Brief, kneeling at his service, who has suffered the torpedoing from within, the coup d'état from within, first of the partners of the fourth pe, that of Podemos - by the way, it is the one who has the least qualification and qualification in these matters - but also - we have discovered recently - the torpedoing of the PSOE itself. We have suffered from their blemishes, minister; yours, yours, minister of propaganda. Because, what independence is that of the visits to Moncloa by the president of Spanish Broadcasting? Is that independence? Who is the president of Spanish Radio Television depending on? If you visit Moncloa... then that's it. It's already up to you, isn't it? How many have there been in these weeks? Who's he meeting with? What have you had to do with those visits? Why have you also visited a councillor, now temporary president, at Moncloa headquarters? Is ham good? Are the beers good? Or were you putting your hands on Spanish Radio? [[Applauds]] The four people announced that this was in favour of independence. Are you doing, as always, a plumber and kneeling down to play the Spanish Television pipes? I'm afraid so. These courts are the ones that appoint councillors and presidents, although then you pact in the dark and dirty offices. And, now, above, until new provisional president by royal decree - by royal decree -; you consolidate the coup d'état on Spanish Television giving full powers to the new provisional president. So, Minister of State Propaganda, please explain to me, as requested by this inquiry, what steps you will take to ensure independence and impartiality. I will try not to laugh; we will try not to break our breasts of laughter or cry for the lies that you are going to tell us, because it is obviously neither independent nor impartial. Don't put that face on me, it makes me soft; it makes me soft. [[Laughter]] It becomes small, soft, like cotton. [[Applauds]] But, yes, we already know that they are their mirrors of azabache, that their eyes are hard, because you are increasingly tougher in your propaganda. Every day we have more and worse propaganda. I repeat, I never thought I would miss Ivan Redondo, because you have returned to an ancient, crude propaganda, that of: I'm going to control the medium and so... That we are in the 21st century, do something more modern. It's that of controlling the medium, because that, they did when the first Spanish Television broadcasts, in 1938 that I said yesterday, with Telefunken. That's what Germany did in 1938. The founders of Spanish Television, Spanish Radio and EFE are what they did, controlling the media thinking that they control the message. You are so rude, you are so old that you do that, as a minister of propaganda. And for what? Because one wonders, why do you want this? If you have the government! They rule by royal decree! They are the government with the most real decrees. And I say, isn't it because elections are coming? Isn't that...? I love this smell! I love the smell of election in the morning because it smells like victory. I love how a government smells that breaks down because it means that you are finally going to listen to the Spaniards and because you are finally starting to smell victory, not yours and your state of propaganda. [[Applauds]] In front of this state of propaganda in which you control Spanish Broadcasting, EFE, the media of the duopoly, the institutional campaigns - the millions of institutional campaigns -, the CIS, Tezanos - another one kneeling before the Government - explain to me how you will justify the independence of those who visit Moncloa and the impartiality of those who choose Moncloa and not these Courts, not this Parliament. And do it, please, in such a way that it is soft, that I don't have to laugh, that I don't have to break my chest with my companions seeing the lies he's going to tell us. But, don't worry, now your azabach mirrors, so hard, are going to come up here and you are going to read that speech that your advisers have prepared for you - which I know you have been preparing it; you are so worried that you didn't even want to answer this morning's question -. It's okay, it's okay, this is simple, now you'll take off your soft negotiator suit, cotton, as I was saying, and, I don't know, personal disqualifications will come, they'll come... [[Rumors]] By the way, I was describing him, I wasn't saying... Oh, sorry, of course, that you may have interpreted that when you were talking about Platero you were talking about the donkey. No, no, that wasn't my intention. [[Laughter]] But you are now going to say many 'ists', many disqualifications, to that triangle that we know: this will be Franco's fault, it will be the virus's fault, it will be Meloni's fault. It's Meloni's fault. You will make references to 'this', 'this', 'this'. Look, this goes from Spanish Television, and up there, in the henhouse - by the way, Madam President, with a wonderful subtropical climate that we usually enjoy - when some of you say a 'isa' or'some of these disqualifications, we play water shots or bingo. [[applause]] We scream: line! bingo! When you go to disqualifications. As this goes from Spanish Television, while you try to explain to me this alleged independence and this state of propaganda, we are going to play the One, two, three. Minister, I see you're a non-minister giving him some advice. [[Mr Zaragoza Alonso exchanged words with the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Mr Bolaños García]] I'm glad it's someone like that who's giving you the advice. Minister, let's play One, two, three... Minister, I'm questioning you. Minister, over here! I'm questioning him. Minister, let's play One, two, three. For 5 euros, to see how many words finished in 'this you can say, Minister of Propaganda. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u183	Then, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. I wanted to make a comment on the questions that are communicated not only to this House, but also to the rest of the Spanish citizenry, and it has to do with the decorum, the representation and the quality of the speeches and the substance of the issues on which we intervene at all times. We represent not only ourselves, but a citizen concerned about their democratic institutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. It says Jardiel Poncela that all people who have nothing important to say speak out loud. Every time I remember this appointment, I can't help but remember you: to speak out loud, to speak with insults and personal disqualifications that don't come to light. You have put here, on the rostrum, an issue: the parliamentary question which has been delayed, which has been postponed until next week. Forgive me for telling you, but this makes it very clear how you use lies as an absolutely normalized weapon in your political discourse. I have to tell you what you already know and that today you will know the whole House and, therefore, the whole country. [[Protests.-Several Members: The question; President, the question]] I understand you don't want to let me talk, because it's pretty ridiculous what you guys have done. [[Applauds.-Protests]] You present...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u185	Wait a minute, Minister. I would beg the people of the VOX Parliamentary Group to ask the person who is talking to to follow the same behavior that occurred when one of their own group intervened. [[Protests Continue]] Allow me to continue to act as President and to order the debate at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u186	Thank you very much. You present a question in time and form addressed to me and it turns out that with that question you are wrong, because it was a question concerning the CNI. So, you say, out of time, that you have wrongly asked a question and you ask a question out of time. Hey, don't make us responsible for your incompetence! What do you want us to tell them? [[Applauds.-Protests]] Of course we answer the questions, of course, as it cannot be otherwise, and we answer them, in truth, with joy, because we reveal the lie in which the far right in this country revolts every day to make politics; every day. Even when you make a mistake, a negligence, you are able to twist the truth to blame yourself to someone who has, in this case, no responsibility, as is the Government of Spain. Therefore, respect the truth a little, that you are the far right, but at least occasionally tell some truth. Look, let's go to Spanish Radio Television, which is what we're dealing with in the interpellation. It's not that you have a problem with Spanish Radio, it's not that you have a problem with this government, it's that you have a problem with democracy and public television, with freedom of the press. That's the problem you guys have. Look, our model of communication, our model of public television is antagonistic to you; antagonistic. Therefore, what you have done is publicly say that you want to put an end to public television, state television and autonomous television. They've said it publicly, because they say it costs a lot of money. And it is totally consistent with an ultra-rightist conception, as we have heard today in this rostrum, which is what you have. Of course it costs a lot of money, so you want to end public health, public education, with everything that guarantees equality for citizens. It's consistent with the far right. But it's just that you, also without taps, say that you're going to end up too or that you want to review concessions to private televisions, you said it a few days ago - The Sixth; a few months ago it was Four -. I mean, all the televisions that don't buy them their false speech, lies, ultra-right propaganda, you want to close them. That's his communication model. Of course, we have another one. We do not want to shut down public television, we do not want to shut down private television, we do not want to illegalise parties, as you want, or trade unions. Do you know what's going on? That we, unlike you, are democrats and constitutionalists. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Fortunately, his model of society was already lived in Spain and left behind decades ago: that unique television, that unique radio, that unique part, that unique truth that later turned out to be false; all that Spain left behind decades ago, fortunately for our country. You are only served by the means to spread fakes, to spread lies, to spread falsehoods, because you in truth do not convince anyone because you represent only the privileged and reactionary elites of our country, that 0.02% of the population you defend. That's why you can't use a truth in your speech; you can't because I wouldn't support you, you need to cheat so that there's someone who supports the ultra-rightist force that you are. [[A Member of Parliament: Communist!]] Look, you don't like Spain as it is: it's plural, it's diverse, it's solidarity, it's cheerful, it's constitutional, it's democratic, it's Spain that you don't like because you're the far right. [[laughs]] I said it in this House and I repeat it again: I am in politics, in addition to calling for public service, to combat what you represent. You represent chrispation, thugs, privileges, insults, falsehoods. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] But today it is evident that you also represent the absence of freedoms, repression and indication to whom you speak differently, to whom you think differently, to whom you love differently than you think you should love and think differently. That is why, also from this rostrum, we will fight those ultra-right postulates that would make Spain very small, the Spain that you represent, which is a Spain from which fortunately we have already moved on. We not only believe in democracy, but we work for democracy; therefore, we want a model of public television that is independent, that is plural, that there are people, as it happens today on public television, of all ideologies, that defend all political options, that defends all ideological options, also yours, and that defends all languages, that are a cultural richness of our country. [[laughs]] And this is necessary for us to have an informed citizenship, but also, if I may, is what Article 20.3 of the Constitution says. It makes me feel so bad to read it to her. You ignore the Constitution, you do not respect it because you do not believe in it, but 20.3 of the Constitution says that the law must regulate the organisation and parliamentary control of public television, respecting the pluralism of society. Listen: pluralism. Spain - to which you claim to defend but which you do not know, which you ignore, which you despise - is plural, joyful, solidarity and wants to move forward. That is Spain which you do not represent or represent in life because you are the far right. Therefore, as for the public television model, in 2006, with President Zapatero, it is decided through a law to define a public service model that was a success. It was approved by a reinforced parliamentary majority, by two thirds of this House, so that the president and the board of directors of Spanish Television would have a very broad legitimacy. It was a reference in the quality of information, in hearings, in information, in plurality, all that you hate, because you are the far right and therefore you cannot allow it plurality. But, listen well, Spain is what it is, not what you want it to be. Spain is free, it is plural, it is cheerful, it is solidarity and wants to keep moving and not have that anchor called ultra-right and called VOX. That's what Spain wants. [[Applauds]] Do you know what happened to that model that President Zapatero set up and that gave plurality to public television? That the People's Party has arrived. At that meeting of moderates who had Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Abascal also talked about this; they also talked about this at the meeting of moderates, which was secret, of course, I don't know if anyone was ashamed of someone but didn't make it public. In that absolute majority of the People's Party what they did was to put an end to that model and jump to the most absolute, most rude manipulation. That is why I used to tell the Member of the People's Party that in the area of independence and public television it is better that they keep a prudent silence, because the People's Party cannot say anything, absolutely nothing, that contributes to the public television model of our country. They modified the election procedure, it was by an absolute majority - curiously, when the People's Party had an absolute majority -, they cut the budget and did what the People's Party and the right always do on all the public televisions it manages: to manipulate mercilessly, to manipulate continuously all the news and all the chatter that took place on public television. Is that your model, gentlemen of the far right? Some Members of the far right at the time were on the extreme right, so I understand that there is also a thread and you also want manipulation and that what Spain really is, not what you want, is not known on public television. In 2017, with a different parliamentary majority, he returned to the reinforced majority model to choose the governing bodies of Spanish Television - thanks to the Socialist Party, among others - so that public television would be exemplary and not what the right and the right would like it to be. Today, Spanish Television is a plural television, a television where there are opinions of all kinds, like or not like political forces or the government, because it is a television where you try to give a quality public service and try to hear all the voices that are heard in the complex and plural reality of our country. [[laughs]] That is why today's public television is a television that must maintain that public service vocation. The resignation of Mr Tornero - I repeat - has been a personal decision, he himself explained it in a statement and the government has nothing more to do with that decision and ensure that now, in the interim period, Spanish Television has tools to continue managing the day-to-day and not condemn it to collapse as you wish on the right and the right. It is obvious that Spanish Broadcasting must be able to effectively manage its business interests in a market as agile as television. That is why I ended my speech by appealing to the House and, in particular, to the main opposition party, to the People's Party, so that we can renew as soon as possible the Spanish Television Advisor who is vacant, we appoint by reinforced majority - because we believe in the reinforced majority - a new president or president of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and we continue to ensure that it is a public television of quality and plurality that represents Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. Then Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u188	Very good, isn't it? Independence, plurality... [[Laughs.-Applause.]] First of all, Minister, you're a lawyer, man! It was on the agenda, how are you talking about traps if it was on the agenda, accepted by the whole House and the whole Bureau? Do not cheat, you are being recorded and you are a lawyer, although it has already been shown that it is not extraordinarily good. He's not a good propagandist either. You're so predictable that even a fellow from the smallest of the communication agencies knows the speech you're going to make. I told you; we won the bingo, not the line, we did the bingo twice. There are nineteen times you have said far right; if you add up, thirty-two disqualifications and without the Bureau telling you anything. There she is, come on! Yeah, yeah. I told him I was going to laugh because he gave neither one argument nor one justification for independence. Visits to Moncloa, is that independence, is that parliamentary control? You say you read me Article 20 of the Constitution. You follow the parliamentary sessions that go on what you are going to talk about, because yesterday I was the one who spoke of Article 20.3 of the Constitution, which speaks of parliamentary control! Are the visits to the Moncloa parliamentary control? Is it putting your hands on the board of directors and reinforcing it by royal decree, not coming to this House, parliamentary control? [[Applauds]] That is not parliamentary control, Mr. Minister of Ancient Propaganda. You, in your speech, are so predictable that we know what you're going to say. You've gone to the disqualification of the group. By the way, you said we're 0.0... could you give me the data? We are four million Spaniards, who support 52 Members. [[Applauds]] And you say we're the ones with the lies! Look, there are now three or four deputies... [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] This is the importance that PP attaches to the control of Spanish Radiotelevision. Three or four Members present here. Sure! If you're willing to make a deal with yourselves! If we are the only voice that tells you to stop getting your hands on what you say is independent. Because you have the quail - that I broke the box, I repeat- to say that it is independent. But if you have summoned to Moncloa who is your candidate! By the way, the new provisional presidency for propaganda comes from one - you always talk about compound surnames; in my case, the Del Real is from one place and the De Luna are from another place. You, on top of that, do not even know where the socialist family names come from; the socialist families are indeed of the Abolene rancio, of the Abolene rancio socialist. The new interim president comes from an Abolengo rancio, with a service sheet from her partner: high-ranking PSOE, the construction of a lot of prisons at the time of Felipe González... We are talking about the person who dedicated himself to selling the land of the Spanish Radiotelevision entity, the sale of Prado del Rey, is the partner of Miguel Barroso. You say we mess with private television, but if you're a public concession, you've given it to them! Either they're public concession or they're private. If you want to be private, issue, for example, in digital, only in digital. But for that there is no courage, because they really like to be in the mood to have a license that you, the public funds that you give them through the campaigns and the funds that you receive from Spanish Television, because Miguel Barroso and company, and Roures and company are the ones who, above, do the programs that the professionals of the Spanish Radio Television house do not do. [[Applauds]] Minister of Propaganda, if you are going to be the Minister of Propaganda, learn at least the subject, which you do not know. You can tell me twenty, thirty or forty times - I will add at the end of the session - 'ultra', 'ultra', 'ultra', that I say 'ista', 'ista', 'ista'. For these are their customs: to sell the land, to have their friends, companions, comrades, brothers, husbands and wives being the ones who sell and get into the coffer and end up on the boards of directors - another case - to finger or are the ones who make the bargain with the money of all the Spaniards. Minister, get your hands off Spanish Radiotelevision; stop your propaganda act. Because I don't know if you're doing propaganda to campaign for Don Pedro Sánchez, who doesn't know if he's going to be a candidate, but that's where it was said to be you. By the way, I was delighted to see the very modern Mr Zaragoza approach you to give, I understand, a last-minute advice to such a moderate minister. [[Laughter]] Otherwise, we would have gone to thirty or forty insults per minute, which is Mr Zaragoza's shooting ratio. [[Applauds]] But, well, I was delighted to see him; moreover, I was delighted to see him sitting as a minister. I'm very fond of Mr. Zaragoza. But this campaign, I repeat, smells like election campaign, and I love this smell because it is a smell of decomposition of your government and of struggle for who will stay the PSOE's mess and what remains of the PSOE after the next elections, so you are taking control of each and every propaganda mechanism in this country: own, semi-pensioners, semi-private, non-citizens, whatever you can. They're breaking the emergency glass to see how they can convince the Spaniards that 'this', 'this', 'this' has to go on, but they're actually going to go home forever. And leave the insults to another, than to me, Mr. Platero, not to me. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u189	To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Jardiel Poncela; all people who have nothing important to say speak out loud, all of them. [[Applauds]] You reiterate here the twisting of reality to justify a negligence of your group. Look, the early Spain that day did not dawn, presented it out of time and, therefore, be respectful of the Rules, do no more ridicule and, simply and plainly, assume that if you do not meet the rules, unfortunately, no one will do you a favor, because what you cannot afford is that you are created above the law, above the Rules and above the rules. [[Mr Sánchez del Real shows a document]] You are the far right; there were decades in Spain where you were above the rules, but not in the constitutional and democratic Spain of the twenty-first century. [[Applauds]] Of course, you do not like the Spain in which you live; therefore, you insult, disqualify, use insults and disqualifications to individuals, to specific people among whom I have the honour to include myself, but that is real Spain, it is Spain that reflects the media, the public and the private, whether you like it or not. When we bet here on a strengthened majority for this Parliament to decide the governing bodies of Spanish Radio-television, you say we split it into dirty offices. I do not know how you have the dispatches, but I tell you that it is an example of democracy, consensus and broad agreements. Do not mix the situation of your offices with what is an exercise of dialogue, consensus and democracy that seeks this House, the whole House, to be respectful of the popular mandate and that public television is a reflection of what real Spain is. I would like to reiterate my appeal to the House in its entirety, but in particular to the main opposition party because its votes are necessary. Are we going to renew the president of Spanish Radio Television or are you going to block it? It is a question for the People's Party that I expect to answer in the coming days, because we need two thirds to renew the president of Spanish Radio Television, just like the outgoing one. So let's do it, and let's do it as soon as possible, because I believe it is a legal and constitutional obligation, although I also know that you in the People's Party do not care to violate the law and the Constitution when you are not interested, and the General Council of the Judiciary is such an obvious example that it does not need further explanation. [[Mr. De Olano Vela utters words that are not perceived]] [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: What about the alarm states?]] Look, gentlemen of the far right, I understand that you do not like the portrayal made by the media of Spanish reality because it puts you in front of the mirror; it puts you in front of the mirror and it is shown that you go against democratic institutions: you go against the Constitution; you go, of course, against the Government, but you go, in general, against Spanish democracy, because you do not like it, because it is not your model, because you are outside of the Constitution and you are outside of democracy in our country. You are also against the citizens, against that social majority for which we are working in the Government every day, taking measures to support workers, self-employed people, businesses, people who use public transport; everyone, to all that great social majority to which we try to represent the Government of Spain, and you systematically vote against it. All the aid, all the public policies that we have put in place, all of them, to defend the vast social majority of our country, all of them, have counted on their rejection. Why? Because you represent a minority of privileged reactionaries. [[Mr. Sánchezdel Real: Four million]] That is exactly what you represent, which is why you are voting against all the measures the Government is taking. You go against women; hired women, that is why you want to repeal the law of gender violence and leave them defenseless before their aggressors, and you also want to cut them rights by repealing the law of abortion. [[Mrs. Rueda Perelló utters words that are not perceived]] [[Mr. Sánchez del Real makes negative signs]] That's the far right. [[Applauds]] Too much Spain, too many Spaniards against whom VOX and the far right are positioned; too many. You represent a very very minority minority, very reactionary, very privileged. [[Mr Sánchez delReal: Four million!]] They represent that minority, and do you know what's going on? That's why they propose tax cuts for them. They do not represent the social majority of our country for which we are working in the Government every day. [[Applauds]] Therefore, in view of the danger you pose to democracy and rights in our country, you will always have a restraint in the Socialist Party, in the Socialist Group, in the Socialist Government, which will continue to defend the rights of our country's social majority against those, such as you, who are with privileged and reactionary minorities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u191	Thank you very much. - the Parliamentary Group on the contribution of the Government to a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. [[File number 172/000241]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u192	Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the Government's contribution to a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. For your defence, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u193	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Good morning, Vice President. The inhabitants of the territories close to the nuclear power plants of Ascó and Vandellós continue, with concern, to continue the announced end of the useful life of these plants planned for the next decade, in view of the labor and social impact that will represent for the future of the peoples. This fact obliges the Spanish Government to plan and act before and in advance of such closure, offering instruments and resources to diversify the economy of the nuclear zones with the aim of reversing the loss of jobs and thus providing a future opportunity for the inhabitants of those municipalities and future generations. This closing schedule provides for the closure agreed between the Government and the companies in Ascó I by 1 October 2030, in Ascó II by 1 September 2032 and in Vandellós II by 1 February 2035. To date, no Spanish Government has submitted a plan for a nuclear transition or a fair transition for these nuclear zones before this closing schedule. It should be remembered, because it is extremely important, that competition in nuclear matters belongs to the State and, consequently, all the millions of euros generated by the power stations in taxes are collected by the Spanish Government. For example, the Fund for the Financing of the Activities of the General Radioactive Waste Plan raised €468 million in 2020 in the form of a non-tax public equity benefit. The forecast is that at the end of the life of these plants the fund has reached 11 billion euros. In addition, the State collects around 300 million per year for taxes directly linked to nuclear production. While it is essential to provide the necessary funding for the management of radioactive waste and the future dismantling of nuclear facilities, we believe that it is also very important to provide a fund to reorient local economies, which are currently very dependent on the activity generated by nuclear power plants. To give us an idea of the magnitude of what we are talking about, between Ascó and Vandellós there are 929 staff of ANAV, plus 994 of collaborating companies; that is, 2000 jobs, which in periods of recharge reach almost 3000. We know that the Spanish Government is working on plans for a just transition, we have seen it in the comprehensive energy and climate plan, in the climate change law, adopted in 2021, and also in the so-called just transition agreements. These agreements, as is well defined on their website, have as their priority the maintenance and creation of activity and employment, as well as the fixing of population in rural territories or in areas with thermal or nuclear installations closed, and it is through their deployment that their ministry conveys the thousands of euros of European funds. Well, we see that today the ministry has sixteen developing conventions that affect seven autonomous communities and one hundred and eighty-four municipalities throughout the State. Do you know what the current investment in Catalonia is? Do you know what the investment of these funds is in one of the most nuclear territories? Zero euros. Of the 550 million euros in just transition agreements, the Catalan municipalities affected by the closure of nuclear power plants are not receiving a single euro. The European funds Next Generation, with a budget of 140 billion for the Spanish state, were approved to face the imminent challenges of the productive model such as energy transition and digitisation. Component 10 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan is precisely the Just Transition Strategy, leaving no one behind in the ecological transition process. But right now, and if we focus on the conventions that are intended to shut down nuclear power plants, we find two: Garoña, which closed in 2012, and Zorita, which did so in 2006. Ten and fifteen years after the closure of both power stations, the ministry has signed the protocols of intentions, made participatory processes, drafted characterization and diagnostic reports, and is still in the process of signing the two agreements for the just transition. Similarly, it has not put in place a proposal for scheduling and accompanying sectors and groups at risk, ensuring a population fixation in these areas and promoting diversification and specialization consistent with the socio-economic context. I have to tell you that, in recent years, the governments of the PP and the PSOE have not only not foreseen or announced any transitional plans in the face of the closure of these nuclear plants, but also - through the Constitutional Court - have prevented different attempts by the Government of Catalonia to implement a nuclear tax to create a fund that would enable action to be taken in the face of the closure of these nuclear plants. Let's try to make a little memory of all this. In the face of the inaction of the Spanish Government, in January 2015, the Generalitat de Catalunya promoted, on a proposal from Esquerra Republicana, the creation of two environmental taxes. These taxes were collected in Law 12/2014 of 10 October. This law determined that 10 % -6 million euros per year - of the tax levied on the production of electricity of nuclear origin from the Catalan power stations will have an impact on the municipalities located in the nuclear areas. The objective was to create a nuclear economic fund to diversify and reactivate the economy of these areas in the face of the closure of power plants. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court, at the request of the PP government, declared that tax unconstitutional in April 2016. Subsequently, the Generalitat continued in the attempt and created a new tax with which to allocate 20% -12 million euros per year - of the money collected to the fund for the economic and labor revival of the nuclear zones, but it clashed with a new appeal of the PP before the Constitutional Court and the maintenance of it by the government of the PSOE. This new tax was cancelled by the Constitutional Court in March 2019, and forced the Generalitat to return the 17 million that it had already collected during the years 2016 and 2018. Finally, and on the third attempt, the Generalitat managed to approve the tax - they say that the third one is won -; seven years after the first attempt we have achieved. That means that we have been seven years without being able to apply a tax that would have contributed millions of euros to the territory, but what matters is that we finally have it. In Law 5/2020, fiscal months, a new tax was introduced on facilities that had an impact on the environment. Subsequently, with the approval of the Law on tax measures for the year 2022, Article 8 was amended, which affected 20% of the revenues collected from nuclear power plants to provide the Catalan nuclear transition fund. Therefore, seven years later, the Generalitat de Catalunya has created the fund, which will contribute 24 million euros annually to the Catalan nuclear zones until the closure of the power plants, 24 million euros that will benefit seven regions, forty-six municipalities, which have their urban core 20 kilometers from the environment of the power plants. A priori it seems that we have time: a decade, and we have the money: 24 million euros a year, to attract business projects that generate occupation and that help to develop productive projects preferably in the industrial sector, in agri-food, in tourism or in that of new technologies. For the first time, a tax will allocate a specific part of the amount collected, 20%, to a specific territory. Meanwhile, the Spanish Government continues to shoulder its responsibility for the future of nuclear zones and the need to ensure a labour and economic transition as well as a just ecological transition. Therefore, in view of the Spanish Government's responsibility for nuclear competence and the need to ensure an economic and labour future, the Republican Parliamentary Group urges the Government, first, to draw up and implement a nuclear transition plan from 2023 onwards to ensure economic diversification and the re-industrialisation of the nuclear areas of Asco, Vandellós and Cofrentes in the face of the definitive closure of nuclear power plants; and, secondly, to contribute, from 2023 onwards, to the nuclear transition fund of the Generalitat de Catalunya with the same amount that the Catalan Administration contributes annually through the finalist collection of the tax on installations with environmental impact, which will be borne by the State's public revenues from the sector; that is, that the Spanish Government will contribute EUR 24 million per year to this fund. Madam Vice-President, we ask you to assume your responsibility, you have exclusive competence in nuclear matters; you have set a timetable for the closure of Catalan nuclear power plants; and you, who speak and seek to establish a just transition, make it a reality. Collaborate and provide resources to the Catalan nuclear transition fund to implement in time and in advance a work and economic alternative in the villages and regions of the nuclear zones of Ascó and Vandellós. A territory that, for decades, has been supportive, a territory that has been generous with the rest for decades deserves solutions and alternatives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u195	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for this opportunity to talk about the past, present and future of energy once again, without losing sight of time or geographical location, and of the alternatives on which we have been building for a long time. Today, moreover, it is the day on which the Solar Forum is inaugurated; a solar forum that gathers the initiatives of a sector that was a pioneer, that has gone very badly and that has been able to reinvent and deploy solutions of small scale, medium scale and large scale, and where we still expect much more of the territory that you represent. We believe it is essential to talk about a debate on the opportunity to look to the future, a near future, 2030. He recalled well that the nuclear power plants located in Catalonia have a closure order that begins in 2030 with Ascó I, in 2032 with Ascó II and with Vandellós II in 2035. Enough time, therefore, so that we can find alternatives for people since the exercise of the powers of the Government of the Generalitat, with the resources received by the municipalities affected from the compensation funds and with the preparatory work that, in due course, we must promote once we have been covering the peremptory need of other territories with advance timetables. It is essential to think about the future of areas with active power plants, with power plants already thinking about closure in the coming years. A debate well in advance allows us to build positive alternatives, not as happened to us when we entered the government in June 2018, in which we had to resolve without any previous contribution on planning, on generating alternatives, on compensation, on covering people working in coal, on people living in coal regions, on forgotten people who saw how the entire recovery plan and alternative in the Garoña region promoted by President Rodríguez Zapatero was erased from a pen in 2012. Last week the president of ENRESA appeared in the Committee of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge of Congress, and there we could talk about the future of energy, an issue that always lends itself to short-term and populism, so I appreciate your invitation to think with a long look what is going to happen in the areas where Ascó and Vandellós are located. When we started our work in the Government, the first condition with which we linked the transformation of the energy system was precisely that we had to activate a just transition, an energy transition with workers-centred policies that could be affected by change, an energy transition that included measures to keep people and regions from lagging behind, building opportunities and alternatives and covering them all. From the previous crisis, from the decision-making of the Government at that time, we were able to learn some lessons that we wanted to apply in the crises that we had to manage from the Government. The first, the most obvious, is that during crises, during intense periods of change, cutting public spending and generating injustices in the tax system leads to more unemployment and more inequality, which is much more difficult to come out of. The second conclusion is that transitions of an economic and industrial model must always be accompanied by public institutions and must always favour a participatory and pro-active debate by social entities and the private sector. Those workers and their families, the regions, the auxiliary companies that have based their economy on a given technology, on a given installation, cannot by themselves face such an intense change in a very short time; and no one is to blame that their employment, their way of life, depends on something that is becoming obsolete. Their daily needs must be met without jeopardizing the quality of life of their families or the environment in which they live. They cannot wait for the change of technological cycles or market forces; they need long-term investment. So those who never had to be abandoned and who have been the preferred focus of our attention, with whom we continue to work and for whom we continue to work, will be a priority in this response. Because I would like to remind you that in June 2018 the neighbours of the areas affected by the closure of Garoña had been abandoned; that the situation of coal mining, coal thermal power plants had no alternative plan; that the villages and regions facing a spectacular challenge, with a date linked to European Union law, had no alternative until we arrived at the government. Moreover, the Rajoy government claimed that they would keep these facilities above all circumstances, even above European legislation. How absurd that turned out to be, how unreal, what a betrayal so important to a good part of those Spaniards who contributed generously for generations with their contribution to the growth of our country. Today, Spain is the only Member State of the European Union that has explicitly included nuclear power stations in its fair transition measures, and I would like to say that we are very proud of that. Obviously, our priority over time, the dedication of our human and economic resources in the first instance is intended to work where this has already occurred, in the areas of influence of the Garoña nuclear power plants in Burgos and Zorita in Guadalajara. There is a need for consensus in the establishment and development of these plans, and we act on the basis of dialogue, participation, listening and transparency. We are pleased to hear that you are willing to work in those areas that will be affected over the next decade by the closures of these plants, because effectively investing and facilitating alternatives is always a good solution from now on. In fact, the current Fair Transition Strategy establishes an urgent action plan to respond to areas with facilities that are currently closed, with coal mines, coal power stations Garoña and Zorita. As I said, since their closures are happening now or have happened already, they are our priority. The social urgency that exists in these areas is absolutely priority, and it is to them that we have devoted the just transition agreements and the efforts of this Government. But the debate you raise in the medium and long term is important. It is an urgent debate, it is a debate of social necessity, it is a debate to be answered. Therefore, I would like to remind you that the climate change law obliges us to have fair transition strategies every five years, so that the impacts of the energy transition in Spain will soon be re-evaluated and will have to establish new areas of action. I repeat: we are the only country in the world that has had an express reference to the closure of nuclear power plants. We are also the only one who has been obliged, as a result of a law largely backed by this Parliament, to draw up fair transition strategies on a regular basis. Both Zorita, at the end of the dismantling, and Garoña, with a newly approved closure, had no plans for dynamism in the affected areas. That is why we have wanted to launch a process of public participation, an analysis of socio-economic vulnerability and have signed a general protocol of action between the representatives of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, autonomous and local governments and the Association of Municipalities in Nuclear Central Areas. There is, therefore, a trajectory on which we are learning, which will serve us when the closure of these last nuclear power plants in Catalonia arrives. Our goal is to maintain and create activity and employment in the territories. Our aim is to promote new and diverse activity, consistent with the socio-economic context and the demands of its inhabitants. To this end, we envisage different support and financing mechanisms to support local actions and projects, seeking maximum efficiency, flexibility and diversity of instruments with which to generate employment and economic activity. And let me correct a frequent error, but let us not overlook it. The remuneration that ENRESA receives is not a tax, it is precisely the compulsory payment, and much more cost-effective, that the owners of nuclear power plants must pay for the management of their nuclear waste. In other countries, each plant, each owner must manage and pay for such coverage of its nuclear waste. It is very possible for us to get cheaper, but I assure you that it is not a tax, it is the sole responsibility of the owners of these plants. These areas with closures do not currently have a specific fund, none of the areas have a specific fund. The European Union's just transition fund focuses only on coal areas, so the Spanish Government's corporation in the areas affected by the nuclear closures does not have European funding. However, it does seem important to us to pay attention from the Institute for the Just Transition to support the generation of new businesses, new activities, new municipal projects for environmental recovery in the areas, support the population, so that they can use their new work skills and new destinations. We work with the companies that own the power stations to commit themselves to the transition, with the support of the workers, with the impulse to the renewables. And again, we would greatly appreciate a much greater commitment from the local authorities in the Catalan case. We prioritize, through IDAE support, renewable projects and value chain in these areas where the facilities have closed or are in the process of closing. We're pushing for the fair transition knot contest. We push for a just transition as a cross-cutting element of the Government's energy policy, but also in the areas of dynamism through economic activity. We have all the elements to do so; we have a fundamental institutional anchor and we hope to be able to count on the authorities in the territory to exercise their responsibility for dynamism, for entrepreneurship, for impulse to economic activity, without waiting for anyone to solve the problems. We are delighted to be able to cooperate, to be able to collaborate, and we will look for the opportune time to do so as we resolve the urgency of this first action plan and, in particular, with the revision of the next fair transition strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u196	Thank you very much, Vice President. I now give the floor to Mrs Pujol i Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u197	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I would like to comment that the local authorities are not only cooperating, but are working together with the Generalitat de Catalunya to address this new nuclear fund and its regulations, and I am convinced that if the ministry wants to cooperate economically, it will have no inconvenience in working with you. I would have liked to have given me concrete answers to the two proposals that we have made to them, because 2000 families, given the closing timetable already announced, look with concern at what future they will have and whether they will be able to continue living in their respective peoples. Councils and trades in nuclear zones are looking with concern at their future. Faced with this, as I said, the Generalitat assumes a responsibility that does not concern it by competences and does so precisely for this reason, by responsibility with future generations. We ask you also to contribute to this period of opportunity with a nuclear transition plan in time for the nuclear power plants in Asco, Vandellós and Coffres, and to participate economically in order to reverse the elements that make us lose competitiveness in certain economic areas, and to strengthen the areas where we are truly competitive. I'd like you to let me know if you're going to do it, when and with what timing. I welcome the fact that it is the only State with transitional funds for nuclear closure. It is true - I said earlier - that these works have taken place in Garoña and Zorita, but the agreements are not yet signed. What we are asking is not to do the same in the Catalan power stations, and that years before they close, the agreements are prepared, that the projects are on the table and that there is a real shift in jobs. Because we cannot play with the future work of all these families; we cannot wait for closure to decide what we do and how we do it; we cannot improvise, because that meant not only the closure of nuclear plants, but also the closure of their peoples and the regions. It is necessary to offer a future and that is achieved by building economic and labour alternatives in time, and I believe that in this, Vice-President, we fully agree. In these territories we need guarantees against the uncertainty of closure; we need funds that will reach those territories in advance to alleviate the economic consequences. And I repeat again: in 2021 the ministry invested - and we celebrated it - more than 550 million euros in agreements of fair transition, but zero municipalities of Catalonia benefit from them, zero euros arrive in Catalonia. So, I think she's totally unbalanced. Here we have a map, which has been posted on the ministry's website, which illustrates the imbalance and decompensation in this budget allocation for a just transition. [[shows a map of Spain]] On the map, Catalonia has no agreement and we want this to be reversed, we want this to happen in time. If the State does not create a fund and does not contribute at least the same amount of money that the Generalitat provides annually, we will read it as a more oblivion and contempt that the State demonstrates year after year towards Catalonia, and more specifically towards these seven regions. And not only this, but the State will not have wanted to hear the cry, the cry of all the municipalities and regional councils, which have already demanded, when approving a motion, that the State make its contribution. We ask them to assume their responsibilities, to assume the consequences of the closure in advance and to act not to leave the families in these areas without work and without opportunities for present and future. Think of the people, the Generalitat has done it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u199	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am sure that in the same way that you show the satisfaction that Spain has included nuclear power plants and the regions where they are located in response to the just transition, you will also agree that organizing the times is something useful and that our priority should be at this time for those who met with one hand in front and another behind when the closures were imminent or had occurred and there was no alternative. Therefore, here there is no abandonment of Catalonia, what there is is a prioritisation of time and resources, which I think is perfectly justified. At the moment there are fifteen agreements under development, which respond to almost thirty closed or closed facilities in 197 municipalities and eight autonomous communities, and I assure you that it is a huge job, because we want to listen to people. In Castilla-La Mancha, José Cabrera's nuclear power plant; in País Vasco y Castilla y León, Garoña; in Castilla y León, five mining operations, Muñecas, Gran Corta, Salgueira, Salinas y la Escondida, and two thermal plants in Anllares y Compostilla; in Andalusia, three thermal plants, Puente Nuevo, Carboneras, and Los Barrios; in Galicia, two, Meirama and As Pontes; in Asturias, nine, of which five are mining operations, Carbonar, Pilotuerto, Pozo Cerredo, Pozo Carrio, Pozo Santiago, and four thermal plants, Narcea, Lada, Soto de Ribera y Aboño; in Aragón, three mining operations, Carmen and Purea, Santa María, Regina and Mi Viña; the thermal plant in Andorra; and in Balearic, the thermal plant in Es Murterar, in Alcudia. For five years I assure you it's a huge amount of work. And don't worry, the next action plan in just transition will broaden the horizon; by the way, with Almaraz and other nuclear power plants scheduled to close before the facilities in Catalonia. The municipalities of the environment of the nuclear power plants in Catalonia have received a total of 198.8 million euros from the Fund for the financing of the activities of the General Plan of Radioactive Wastes, fifty-four projects have been approved for their co-financing from the Enresa Fund for an amount of 4 million euros, and I believe this helps to understand that we are already working intensively with the local authorities, committed to the neighbors and looking for solutions that must think about the opportunities of present and future. There are a total of forty-six municipalities in the environment of these nuclear power plants that have been receiving significant allocations since 1990, currently regulated in an order of 2015. Since the start of these allocations, these forty-six municipalities have received a total of almost EUR 199 million. In 2022 they received a total of EUR 7 199 000; 3.6 in Ascó, 2.9 in the Vandellós II environment and 628 000 in the Vandellós I environment. Therefore, they are added to the previous 2.9. As planned, since 2016 Enresa can co-finance in the terms provided in the order municipal initiative projects, and it does so. And from the origin of these allocations to the year 2021, a total of seventy projects for co-financing have been submitted by the municipalities. For me it is a priority and a great pride to be able to work with local and autonomous authorities, and we will not stop doing so. On the contrary, I do not want anything to compromise that commitment on the part of this Government, even if it does not give the impression that it is not done, because the resources available and the work of the team, which is working far above what is likely to be required by any convention, is poured precisely into those fifteen developing conventions for regions where people already have to face a closure that is real. So, fortunately, in this case we have some time and capacity to react and we appreciate that from the responsibilities of industry, economic dynamism, land management and so many others that are specific to the Generalitat go forward, facilitating this process of transformation thinking of a sustainable future, in a viable future, in a future full of opportunities for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the Government's criteria for advancing the decomposition of industry in Spain and, in particular, on the SOLVAY business. [[LORD MAZÓN RAMOS]] [[File number 172/000234]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u200	Let us now turn to the urgent appeal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the criteria of the Government for progress in the decarbonisation of industry in Spain and, in particular, with regard to Solvay. For your defence, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Madam Minister, first of all, thank you very much for taking up this question, which is addressed to the Government in general and which, of course, has a response that can be cross-cutting, because it affects not only your ministry, but also others, such as the Ecological Transition or Economic Affairs. As you have read in the text, the inquiry has two approaches: one of a general nature, which affects the decarbonisation process of the Spanish industry, and the other directly focused on Cantabria and, in particular, on Solvay. We know that the decarbonisation process is very complex and that it has become much more complicated due to the crisis we already know - pandemic, war, supplies, etc. -. I am not going to repeat what we all know and I think we admit, as I also think we all agree that the decarbonisation of life in general is necessary, but it is also true that, as in everything, the right alternatives must be prepared. This is where the interpellation goes. Today we are talking about industry and, among all the issues, the most relevant, which is the imperative need to ensure that our country has strategic productive capacities in the most strategic productive sectors. Precisely the energy-intensive industries, both electro-intensive and heat-intensive, represent the foundation of the value chain of the economy and society in such essential elements as transport, construction, energy generation, etc. And it must also be said that, in general, industrial enterprises are engaged in a proactive role in transforming industrial competitiveness towards sustainability, not only because they have a direct impact on energy saving and reducing gas emissions, but because they produce goods that generate a domino effect in other productive sectors. And the request for support from these companies is not because they are pedigrees, it is because it is materially impossible for them to compete in international markets without the environmental limitations that we have in ours and that they do not have other competitors, as well as to assume the acceleration of the commitment to sustainability of the European Union that is constantly occurring. We have the Green Deal, the Fit for 55, the REPower; finally, there are different mechanisms. For this exhibition, before I refer to the industry in particular, I would like to mention - I am not going to go into this subject, although it also affects very directly measures related to decarbonisation - those aimed at lowering the cost of energy, such as tax cuts or the gas price ceiling to mark the price of electricity. I think they are necessary and appropriate, but also, as you know, they do not affect everyone alike and at some point they have been able to cause some distortion. In particular, this has happened to Solvay, which has not been able to benefit from the gas cap measure because it only affects those who have contracts with the reference to the Dutch TTF, which marks the price of the gas market, and this was not the case. And I know that, on the other hand, he's been somehow compensated in a small part. We should also mention renewables, but that is another day. In the case you bring us today, I hope that the Minister will then illustrate us in her reply. The main aids we know are in the European funds, but not all of them, because there are also important ones of a national nature. We know that, fundamentally, we have the PERTE, which depend on your ministry, as well as other programs under the Ministry of Ecological Transition, which are expected to be cogeneration auctions or energy saving certificates, which are fundamental to industry. But allow me a letter to talk about Cantabria in the industrial aspect, because, despite the image that has always been or is held of Cantabria as a region of services, cattle, green - today I am not going to make infinite propaganda of Cantabria - it must be made known that Cantabria has always been one of the most industrialized regions of Spain. It has had a significant impact on the gross domestic product of the industrial sector, the largest in Spain, and has become the first regions in the percentage of GDP of the industrial sector; in fact, this percentage still has a significant impact today. Of course, it has been affected by the decline of the last thirty or forty years, which, fundamentally, has been directed towards the cantabrian cornice, in contrast to the axis of the Ebro or the axis of the Mediterranean and, of course, Madrid, which have had a very important development in these decades. Well, in Cantabria, the industrial heart can be said to be in Torrelavega, without disregarding other large industries that continue to exist in other areas or cities, such as Santander, Maliaño, Reinosa or Los Corrales de Buelna, where the industrial fabric has been and is still quite important. However, Torrelavega is a city especially punished by this decline. Look at you, in the sixties and seventies you had several large factories, of the older ones that could be found at that time, of thousands of workers each, among which were Solvay herself, as well as Sniace, Asturian of Zinc, the former General, who was then Firestone, etc.; finally, I will not quote all. Today in Torrelavega there is still Armando Álvarez, but unfortunately, most have been disappearing or greatly reducing their industrial weight and, of course, employment, although the issue of employment is a universal phenomenon due to the productivity leap. But some companies have completely disappeared, as has happened with Sniace or Asturiana de Zinc, and you can imagine the effect that that has on a city like Torrelavega, which, despite everything, still maintains an impulse, and I think it's going to go further, although you can't achieve it if you don't help it. Indeed, it is the aid that needs not only Torrelavega, but Spain and even the European Union, because we have to face a time when competition is enormous, and we are all witnessing the phenomenon of relocation. Without delving into this matter now, we must react against it, and what we are talking about today is part of that necessary strategy. I'm gonna give you some data on Solvay and his project. This company has been present in Cantabria for 114 years and is the largest factory of carbonate and sodium bicarbonate in Western Europe and the only one in Spain. It produces essential raw materials for the production of products of daily life, such as glass, detergents, sanitary products, pharmaceuticals and personal hygiene, food and animal or combustion gas treatment, and is a very advanced factory in digitisation, optimization algorithms and predictive maintenance. It accounts for 2.5% of Cantabria's GDP and employs more than 360 workers as own personnel, 350 directly as contractors and promotes another 2000 induced jobs. It is a world-class factory and more than half of its production is exported outside the European Union. Finally, the energy transition is crucial for its continuity both from the point of view of sustainability, that is, the elimination of coal as an energy source and the reduction of CO2 emissions, and of competitiveness, the price to compete in the global market. The production of carbonate and sodium bicarbonate is very intensive and 80% of the technical energy is currently obtained from two coal boilers, with a consumption of 260,000 euros. And allow me a very simple technical comment so as not to make the data so boring. Solvay manufactures a range of alkaline products, including those mainly derived from two raw materials, limestone and salt, which are abundant in nature. Well, the common salt is sodium chloride, the limestone is calcium carbonate, and with the chemical reaction of both to obtain sodium bicarbonate or sodium carbonate, calcium chloride is obtained as a by-product - it is surprising that such valuable by-products can be obtained - which has multiple applications in the manufacture of glass, industry, food, etc. Look at how, with the combination of these two elements, you get such a relevant matter. This was one of Ernest Solvay's geniuses, which gave rise to the company, and also to an interesting patent war, which, by the way, still continues today. In fact, there are many more chemical reactions, there are many more raw materials, more products, and this is one of my grandfather battalions that I like to count as when I explain an elementary chemistry to children. Returning to the project, it consists of replacing half of coal consumption with a waste-derived fuel boiler, which will reduce CO2 emissions to the atmosphere by 150,000 tonnes. The project is clearly part of the circular economy and will be an alternative to waste dumps. Working hand in hand with the Regional Administration for the management of RSU resources and reducing them to less than 10%. They expect investment to be in the order of 200 million, creating new jobs and maintaining current employment. And the use of this fuel will be much cleaner than the one that has been used since 1960, which also fits very well with the sustainable development goals, 7, 12 and 13, which I will not read because I would go away from time. Of course, the Solvay Group needs help to reduce all this dependence on coal and has been in hand for a long time. The project is perfectly in line with REPower, in which it seeks to achieve energy autonomy, as fossil fuel, historically from Russia, will be replaced by a local fuel that is currently going to landfill. The price of steam for the CDR boiler depends on more than 80% of the cost of the investment, hence the aid requested for the investment. We are sure that your entire Government shares the view that investment aid is a key factor for investment decisions by entrepreneurs and, therefore, in this case, for the continuity of the plant itself. You, Minister, in some statements you made not long ago in Santander, said - at least, as I read in the newspapers - that Solvay had to do his homework. However, I can assure you that this company, because I have tried to find out how it was, has the duties done for more than a year, and they know it well in their ministry, because I believe they are having a very positive and constructive position, although it is necessary to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u203	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Mazón, first of all, I would like to thank you for agreeing to postpone this inquiry, as the scheduled date, as you know, coincided with my participation in the G20 Ministerial Trade Summit, which was held this year in Indonesia. Secondly, I would like to thank you for the initiative, because once again it allows me to express the commitment of the Spanish Government to the sugarcane industry and, in particular, to its modernisation and the improvement of its competitiveness through a commitment decided by the two-way green and digital transition. And this commitment, Your Honor, is not just words, it's done. Since we arrived at the government in 2018, we have approved aid for the Cantabrian industry worth EUR 69 million, an investment from which 67 industrial plants in your region have benefited, and among the companies that have benefited from these lines of aid is the company that you referred to, Solvay Chemistry. In fact, a few days ago we published the interim resolution of aid to industrial enterprises under the CO2 compensation mechanism and Solvay has received EUR 1.27 million. Cantabria is one of the autonomous communities that benefits most from this aid, with a total of 11.3 million euros, that have benefited thirteen industrial plants, among which is Solvay, to which I referred, but also other important industries cantabras, such as Global Steel, FerroAtlántica or Reinosa Forgings and Castings. Therefore, since 2018, when we reinforced this mechanism, Cantabria has received 36.6 million euros to support its industry, and Solvay is one of the companies that has benefited most. It is also aware that we have adopted new mechanisms to support industry, especially the electro-intensive industry, within the framework of the Statute of Electro-intensive Consumers, which, among other things, allows companies to compensate for the charges of the electricity system. And since its adoption - it is already the second call that we have approved - fifteen cantabrian companies have benefited from this new aid line for an amount of EUR 3 million. And to support the decarbonisation of industrial sectors we launched last year a new line of support for industrial R & D, innovation and sustainability, from which two cantabrian companies have benefited with an aid of 1.7 million euros. Finally, I would also like to highlight the support that has been received by the Reinosa Forgings and Castings company from SEPI's Strategic Business Solvency Support Fund, which, as you know, had significant economic support of EUR 27 million. As I said, these are facts, we have put EUR 69 million at the disposal of industry, of industrial companies since we arrived at the government; facts that reinforce our commitment to industry in Cantabria, with the Spanish industry as a whole, because, as I have said many times since this atrium, one of the priorities of this government is the reindustrialisation of our country and successfully tackle the two-pronged green and digital transition. This has been reflected in our Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, devoting a specific component to industry, with a financial support of €38 billion; a plan, component 12, which includes various measures to modernize and boost the competitiveness of strategic sectors in our economy, which are undoubtedly also within the framework of the priorities that we have collected in the PERTE, these major tractor projects that drive industrial value chains through a strengthening of public-private collaboration. These projects are enabling us to transform, among other sectors, the value chain of the automotive industry, accelerate the ecological transition through the deployment of renewable energies, the storage of green hydrogen, also strengthen our agri-food system, move towards a circular economy, support the naval and aerospace industry, and determine and strengthen our strategic autonomy in the field of semiconductors and chips. In addition, we are also strengthening these strategic projects with a new industrial decarbonisation PART - which we announced - that will finance investments that aim to achieve the decarbonisation of our industrial companies, the payment of lower CO2 emissions, lower fossil fuel consumption and, ultimately, a new strengthening of our country's industrial capacities. [[Applauds]] Undoubtedly, in this context of uncertainty to which you have referred, we need to build confidence in our industry, maintain industrial capacities and employment and, ultimately, build the foundations of an industry that is more sustainable and digital but also with greater social and territorial cohesion, and all these projects will benefit cantabrian companies. You were talking, indeed, about the industrial heart of Torrelavega in the Cantabria region - which I know very well - and, indeed, there are many industrial companies in the field of chemistry, such as Solvay, but also in other areas, such as the agri-food industry, the automotive sector or the shipbuilding industry, which can benefit from these important investments. And, as far as Solvay is concerned, as you know, both from the Ministry of Industry and also from the Ministry of Ecological Transition have held multiple working meetings, also visits to the factory with the aim of making known the different lines of aid to successfully address its decarbonization process. You were talking about giving a boost to the project to which you have referred, and that is what we are talking about. At the moment, I can inform you that the company is certifying itself in the ENAC scheme called RD-31, a scheme it needs to comply with the DNS principle and to be able to present all the new lines that we are developing both from the Ministry of Industry and from the Ministry of Ecological Transition in the field of the application of European funds, and, once certified, Your Honor, you will be able to opt for all the programs that best fit your decarbonisation process, because, as I said, both from the Ministry of Industry and from the Ministry of Transition we are permanently dialogueing with the company but we also have a very good institutional dialogue with the Government of your region with the aim of strengthening and improving our industrial capacities and accompanying companies such as Solvay in their decarbonisation process. And you have referred, Your Honor, to the context of uncertainty caused by the war in Ukraine, a context that is generating not only geopolitical tensions and disruptions in supply chains, but also a significant increase in energy prices, which is affecting our industry. That is why we are working to provide answers and solutions to the challenges and consequences that war is having on families through increased inflation in businesses and the impact of rising energy prices, and, as you know, we have adopted various shock packages to provide solutions and strengthen government support to families and businesses so that, as we did in the pandemic, they will be effective in protecting these important companies. So far we have deployed more than EUR 35 billion in aid, the equivalent of 2.9% of GDP, and this is a strong, once again unique response to protect businesses and families, which, as I said, we have already done in the pandemic, so that today we are seeing the fruits with maximum levels of employment, levels of unemployment below three million and an increase and strengthening of our capacities from the point of view, for example, of exports or the tourism sector. In fact, we knew the inflation data for September and for the second consecutive month prices were moderated, indicating that the measures we have adopted are beginning to take effect, we are moving in the right direction, although, not for that reason, it is appropriate to lower the guard, in such a complex global scenario, and we are therefore still prepared to act in any event. It is important - as we did during the pandemic with the centralized purchase of vaccines and access to the funds of the Recovery Mechanism - that we also have European and solidarity responses, and certainly an example is the Iberian mechanism, which has been a turning point, getting with that gas cap to have more competitive energy prices in Spain and Portugal and, therefore, to address in a more effective way the increase in energy prices. Since the entry into force of this mechanism, the Spaniards have saved EUR 23 billion on the electricity bill, and this is not the only important measure that we have taken - you have referred to some of them - as selective tax reductions, 20 cents per litre of fuel bonus, free public transport - which we have collected as a structural measure in the general budgets for 2023 - direct aid to intensive gas companies or the last measure that we have adopted, which is the extension of the Iberian mechanism to cogeneration companies. As you know, the latter allows to be incorporated into the cogeneration plants - which use fundamental industrial sectors, such as the chemical sector or paper - into the Iberian mechanism, benefiting companies such as Solvay, which has shown great satisfaction with this measure. In short, we are in a context marked by uncertainty, high volatility in energy prices, and, as I said, a set of measures has been taken by the Government to reduce this cost that industrial companies have added, while accelerating decarbonization and the green transition to reduce emissions and dependence on fossil fuels and, in the end, ensuring the continuity of our industrial plants, improving their competitiveness. And, no doubt, to address these challenges we need determination and unity - I always say this when I come to this House - in order to adopt the best solutions for Spain and for Cantabria, so as not to leave anyone behind, because, despite the context of uncertainty, there are reasons to look to the future with hope. We overcome the pandemic and perhaps the most important thing is that we avoid a deep and lasting crisis by supporting our productive fabric, employment and the most vulnerable, preventing the structural crisis from taking us to another lost decade, as happened in the financial crisis. The Spanish economy, also the sugarcane, is resisting better than other European economies because we have solid foundations - I have already given some new data on the labour market, exports or tourism - but also because we have promoted a European solidarity response, because, without a doubt, Spain has a respected and influential government at international level and this level of leadership has enabled us, among other things, to achieve the Iberian mechanism. However, ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done and, therefore, there is no doubt that we will continue to work loyally with the autonomous communities, with all our industrial fabric and Solvay in that ongoing dialogue that we have to support our industry in the decarbonisation process that we need to defend and improve our industrial capabilities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u205	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister, for your explanations which have been quite illustrative, although the review of the investments you have made to us for Cantabria is really logical, because, man, otherwise - that there would have been no aid - would have been catastrophic, would have been missing more, that is why they are ruling. Actually, it doesn't seem like much to me. 69 million seems to me very little money for an entire industry with not only the chemical sectors, but that of cars, agri-food, etc. I think it's little money; it's almost like a medium-sized road. With which, I think you can aspire to much more. I'd like to know for when the LOSS, because, of course, he LOSS has been there for a long time and we have to solve it as soon as possible. There is a pre-call, but the sooner we have the solution and the sooner companies can make decisions, the better. Let him know that his work is being very well appreciated; in particular, his Director General has spoken very well, he is taking it seriously. See if you can also transmit to the Ministry of Ecological Transition that energy savings certificates also accelerate them and get out the famous auction for decarbonization as soon as possible. But, without prejudice to other industries in Cantabria, we have to get to the point, and I have come here to talk about Solvay. The truth is that I think he deserves it, because, look, Solvay's continuity is a top political issue in Cantabria not only because of politics itself, but because of the morale of society, because it has been the jewel of the crown for many years. It would be terrible if I didn't have a future. Think that you deserve the help for being a pioneer, in Spain and Cantabria, in many social aspects. Since its implementation, more than a hundred years ago, it has introduced unprecedented social advantages. To sum up, wages were much higher than average and introduced additional benefits unknown for the time that, in addition, marked a trend in the rest of the major industries. Since 1910 it organized the Mutual Relief Society, which grants medical assistance and aid for the purchase of medicines in exchange for a small monthly fee. From 1914 he began to pay vacation, paid vacation, something unknown, although it was only six days a year. And from the very moment the Institute of Social Security was born, it affiliated all the staff to it. In 1911 he created a school, first for the children of the engineers and then for the rest of the Spanish employees, because at first they brought many Belgians, especially. He solved the problem of housing for a large part of the staff, first with the houses of the engineers - as many companies later did - that were close to the factory, and then the employees built townhouses with garden and, later, a working village with small gardens. The factory even offered to finance the construction of a Civil Guard headquarters and to cover all accommodation costs. And within the factory register it also created a hospital that, in addition, was decisive for the flu of 1918. He created a consumer cooperative - saving if it still exists - that was run by the factory's own staff. And finally, he cared about the leisure of the staff, with the construction of a casino, a social gathering center, cinemas, sports fields... He even had a football field. That is, it has not only been advanced in this social matter, but it was also one of the first to choose to produce its electric current with a steam-powered condensing turbine. Environmental policies began in the 1990s and made the famous commitment of progress to eight principles related to the preservation of the natural environment. In addition, a natural gas reforming plant has recently been set up to obtain hydrogen, oxygenated water processing, etc. I want to end up claiming industry in Spain and Cantabria, especially. In my time as Territorial Planning Advisor, we did a survey and the end result was that people wanted industry and landscape. Let's say they were the two big questions that were being asked, which I believe can be made compatible. But industry is the key because, in addition, it is the guarantee of stable, durable and, in addition, higher quality jobs, and this is the main concern of the people. Of course, the industry of today and the future is not the same industry as it was 50 years ago, but we have to bet on it because, if not, we are going to lag behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u207	Thank you very much, President. Mr Mazón, we certainly share the same priority, the importance that industry has in its region, but also in the whole of Spain. Therefore, since I came to the ministry, industrial policy as a State policy is a political priority of the Government. In fact, we already have a state-of-the-art industrial pact with the economic and social actors that we hope can also be achieved with the rest of the political forces and with the autonomous communities, which are also responsible for industrial policy. As we understand that this is a political priority, we are investing in our industry. You have said that 69 million seem to you few. I want you to make numbers to see how much the People's Party government invested in the seven years it was until we got to the government in 2018. Just by setting an example, in the pandemic - as you know - we created two important funds to support business solvency. I spoke about the SEPI fund, EUR 27 million for the company in Reinosa, but also a fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, managed by COFIDES, which has saved many jobs and financed EUR 800 million. These are the answers that the Spanish Government has given to the pandemic to protect our industrial fabric, our business fabric, unlike, in fact, a neoliberal policy of saving anyone who can, which is now being defended by the People's Party, defending the privileged and leaving the vulnerable and the middle and working classes without arguments in order to be able to defend a policy that needs protection, when the most vulnerable are most affected by the events we are experiencing, the pandemic and now the war. We continue to invest in industry, Spanish industry and the sugarcane industry. You were wondering when the decarbonization PART. Before the end of the year we will adopt it in the Council of Ministers; it is a previous phase that we have to do and we hope that, at the beginning of 2023, we can already make available to companies the resources they need to deal with this transition - it was about green and digital - in which we are committed and that, with new resources and with a line adapted to the decarbonisation of industry, we will certainly be able to improve. There are many instruments that we already have at the disposal of companies. I am convinced that, with the PARTE linked to the shipbuilding industry and with it PERTE linked to the agri-food industry, many of the sugarcane companies will benefit because they have a very mature industry in these areas and therefore there is a window of opportunity. I am convinced that, with the help of the cantabrian business organisations and the Government of Cantabria, we will be able to generate confidence so that these industrial projects can be presented. With this figure - I insist - insufficient, but with facts and not words, the Government's commitment to the Cantabria industry and to Cantabria is strengthened. Unfortunately, I have to say that the absence of industrial policy by the People's Party Government left their future to the companies themselves, but today companies have a government that cares about industry, accompanies industrial investment and gives confidence. And we know that we also have your honor, because you have supported us on many of the initiatives that we have brought to this House, and I thank you; the most important, perhaps, was the PERTE, when other groups represented here - not only the People's Party, but the right - voted against using European funds, which are an element of modernization and the impetus of our economy. So we're going to remain engaged. We will, in fact, continue to work with Solvay and the rest of Cantabria's productive fabric. In a short time we will have that certification, which is very important in order to be able to access not only the DEcarbonisation PERTE of the industry, but the rest of the lines they know and that we are working with them. These lines will indeed support an industry - as you have said - not only important for the generation of wealth and employment, but also from the point of view of the social impact that Solvay has. You referred to your commitment to Cantabrian society and there are many, not only Solvay, companies that have this commitment. This minister and this Government are here not only to protect them, but also to move forward and for that future to be built together and successfully. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u208	Thank you very much. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, TO THE GOVERNMENT ON THE MEASURES THAT IT THINKS IN THE CHALLENGE OF THE ILLEGAL OCCUPATIONS OF LIVING. [[File number 172/000243]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u209	Thereafter, the People's Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Government at the Congress on the measures it intends to take in the face of the increase in illegal housing occupations. For your defence, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u210	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, you are going to allow me, before I come into this matter, to make a small point and address Mr Sánchez del Real, who is so concerned about other parliamentary groups. I guess he's going out looking for his VOX buddies right now, unless VOX doesn't care about the problem of illegal housing otupation. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] On the other hand, Mrs Llop, I rise to this rostrum to try to find out what the real position of the Government is and what measures it intends to take to deal with the illegal octopus of housing, a phenomenon which has continued to grow in recent years under the umbrella of the passivity of Mr Sánchez's Government and the encouragement, unfortunately, of half of that same Government. My group believes that this inquiry is necessary for three main reasons. The first and most important of these is that illegal housing octopus is a serious problem that worries the Spaniards, and very much. This concern has increased in recent years in parallel with the increase in illegal occupations. As you know, Mrs Llop, the octopus has been fired in Spain 46 % since Mr Sánchez is in Moncloa. The first quarter of this year left an average of 49 complaints of house usurpation every day, and that is, Minister, 49 family dramas. If we take as a reference the last full year, 2021, the increase of the okupation is 40% compared to 2018, and last year there were 17 274 crimes and faults or minor offences related to the illegal okupation of housing. Catalonia is still the autonomous community where the problem of okupation is more pronounced, it could be said that it is the paradise of the Okupas or, on its reverse, that it is the hell of the homeowners. Okupations in this autonomous community account for 42.5% of the total of Spain, a figure that almost triples that of Andalusia, the second autonomous community with more cases. In any case, this is not a problem that affects only the most populated territories, but this phenomenon is already spreading throughout Spain. Thus, the most representative increases correspond to La Rioja, with 193 % in the last year, or Cantabria, with 96,07 %; although the absolute figures are clearly far below those of Catalonia. Therefore, Mrs Llop, you will agree with me that we are facing a problem which is of great concern to the Spaniards, because the data are alarming and the growth of this phenomenon in recent years makes it urgent for us to seek solutions from the public authorities. You will also agree with me that the current legislation against illegal octopus is insufficient, so the problem has not only not been solved, but is still growing, fuelled by organized mafias who are campaigning for their wide-ranging protection against the passivity of your Government, Mrs Llop. The second reason why my group considers this question to be relevant and urgent is that, for the first time in history, half of the government you form with Podemos not only openly defends this phenomenon, but encourages illegal occupations. Moreover, his partner, Podemos, considers that the okupation is a lawful means of access to the possession of real estate. A party that defends the illegal Okupas and punishes the owner, which sees its right to private property violated as set out in articles 18 and 33 of the Spanish Constitution that you well know. Those are your partners, Mrs. Llop, you know them a lot better than I do. It will recognize that the fact that there is a party that defends the Okupa in front of the owner and that is part of a democratic government is still an anomaly. I would like to know whether you know of any other government in Europe or in the OECD that has among its members ministers who defend, defend and incite the illegal misappropriation of the property of a third party. In the same vein, I would like to know what opinion the Minister of Justice deserves from her colleague, Mrs Montero, Minister of Equality, when she stated last week strongly that okupation is an invention of the right. Is that the opinion of the Government of Spain? Does Mr. Sánchez also defend that illegal okupation is an invention of the right? Do you agree that okupation is an invention of the right? Do you think that statements like those made by Mrs Montero are the same as those made by a minister of a government which is minimally serious and acceptable to the governments of our environment? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u211	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u212	I would like you to address directly to those 120,000 affected by occupations and to the hundreds of thousands of citizens who see the deterioration of coexistence in their neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, to address them and to condemn those words of Mrs Montero, and to do so once and for all to make clear the position of Mr Sánchez's Government, what is the position of the Spanish Government vis-à-vis illegal occupations. Mrs Llop, it is not easy to know what the position of your Government is. The Spaniards deserve to know what they think of a problem of this magnitude. We all know what Podemos's position is, but we do not know what the Socialist Party's position is, and it is - knowing his opinion on it - the third of the reasons that led us to formulate this inquiry. Believe me, it's not easy to know what you think of illegal okupation. This Member has been in Congress for a few years now and has been able to see an evolution in the Socialist Party in the face of frankly alarming illegal occupations. Between 2011 and 2015 the PSOE maintained a moderate position and defended the rights of the owners, of the millions of Spaniards who have a property, as should be normal. With the appearance of Podemos, they gradually turned and went from profile to adopt, with the arrival of Pedro Sánchez, the same position as Podemos: denying that illegal otupation is a problem and denying even the existence of that problem, which affects thousands and thousands of Spaniards. Mrs Llop, using your terminology, you could say that the government and the Sanchist PSOE have become negators of the ocupation. In the Diary of Sessions of the Congress of Deputies are the answers of their predecessors - supplies of Justice Mrs Delgado and Mr Campo - to questions of my parliamentary group denying that illegal otupation was a problem in our country. It will also refresh your memory, because the PSOE voted against, in February 2021, the consideration of the debate, Mrs Llop, of the proposed organic law against illegal octopus presented by the People's Parliamentary Group, which, among other issues, contained a short period of time to vacate housing from the request to the occupant of the public authority or its agents. More recently, he will recall, the PSOE also voted against the motion for a resolution on measures against illegal occlusion tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the debate on the state of the nation last July, in which the Government was urged to also set a maximum time limit for eviction in the case of illegal occlusion. Finally - and I am sure you know it because it is a draft of your Government - there is the Bill for the Right to Housing which, among other measures, whitewashs the opt-out because, for example, it prevents evictions in certain circumstances, of course not objective, Mrs Llop. Such are the follies contained in this bill by Sánchez and his Government that the demolition report of the General Council of the Judiciary on this project points out that the owner is charged, who can also be an equally vulnerable person - and says the General Council of the Judiciary - and not to the Administration with the cost of maintaining the okupation, usually rent without any income payment for a long period. With this background, you will understand that we do not really know what your position is, the position of Mr Sánchez's government, but yes of half of the government, of Podemos we do know, but not yours, that of the Socialist Party, because some days they deny the problem and others refuse to discuss what response the public administrations must give to illegal okupation, as we have done from the People's Party, or the next one they fail with amendments to the Organic Law on Organizational Efficiency of the Public Justice Service that seem to say the opposite, that they seem to want to seek solutions to this criminal phenomenon. I mean they seem because their amendments know some loopholes - or some traps might think some - that make them unhelpful, and I'm sure you know what they are. We do not know whether the PSOE defends Podemos's approaches, as they have done on many occasions - and I have just remembered them here - or whether the position that they now appear to be defending is simply a currency of change in the negotiation of the general state budgets that they can have during this week with parliamentary groups such as the Republican Left of Catalonia, the CUP or Bildu, its partners, Mrs Llop, who openly defend illegal occupation and directly attack the owners and private property or whether, in this case too, it could simply be a further electoral lure. Now that the local elections are coming, the neighbours of many neighbourhoods in many of our cities are calling for solutions to the deterioration of coexistence, insecurity and the increase of crime linked to the illegal octopus of housing while they are witnessing astonishment at their passivity, at the passivity of the Government of Spain, at the passivity of Mr Sánchez. Mrs Llop, the People's Party is clear that situations of vulnerability or social exclusion due to housing and the protection of families in situations of social emergency, on many occasions have nothing to do with otupation and, of course, in no way can it be handed over to citizens, to natural persons, the responsibility to deal with the vulnerabilities of others, because that is a responsibility of your Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very clear. Mrs Llop, an okupa is not evicted, it is evicted, and the sooner the better. [[Applauds]] The vulnerable is protected without the right of the Government, as he said, to transfer that responsibility to private citizens. The mafias, Mrs Llop, are being pursued, as is the duty of the public authorities in any advanced democracy. Of course, what you can't do in any case is look elsewhere. To look at half of the Government elsewhere because the other half of the Government, as I say, encourages, incites and applauds the illegal octopus of housing. As I said before, Podemos defends the okupation as a lawful way of accessing the possession of third-party properties. That is something that in a democracy like ours or in any other country in our environment should be absolutely prohibited and we should be energetic in the defence of citizens and individuals; something that this Government is not doing, because it has so far simply limited itself to drafting some instructions from the Prosecutor's Office - your partner, Mrs Delgado - knowing that those instructions were not going to give results and I refer myself to the evidence and the data I have already provided. Mrs. Llop, I've asked you a lot of questions. These are issues of interest to all Spaniards, to many citizens, not only to those who are directly affected because their right to property is violated, but to their neighbours, who put at risk, even, up to life - there are plenty of examples - and also to the entire community of neighbors, to the whole neighborhood that lives there and, therefore, you should go up to the rostrum and reassure all Spaniards. I wish you would. Otherwise, I will claim it again in my next speech. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u214	Good afternoon. Thank you, Member, Mr De Olano, for your inquiry. Citizens are certainly disappointed with this question you raise because the truth is that citizens are sick of it. They are sick of being afraid of them, tired of being told about insecurity, as you have done from this rostrum, and that we do not really give them solutions to their problems. Certainly, it is sad to see that your party does not do, with this position, useful politics, politics for the good of the citizenry, not even politics in defense of the interests of its own voters, because they are doing politics exclusively for a few, but profiting a lot, a lot of political revenue. Of course, this is good for you and, therefore, I believe that we need to put things in place in this debate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u215	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u216	It is sad to see that, even though they are aware of their weak stance on this issue, they persist in dealing with it in Parliament. I think this really doesn't benefit them too much. Last April I reminded your colleague in the Upper House that, within the voidness of your electoral programme for the last elections - which, by the way, you lost - I found very few housing measures, scattered measures, very unclear measures, especially in the area of octopus. Indeed, you do not have a housing policy from a social perspective that acts as a prevention of this phenomenon of illegal otupation, as this government is doing with the housing law. It is true that your concern for housing prices in our country is non-existent and that when the bets on public housing for rent are many and are very increasing and also the concern of the citizenry, you take it down, you pass. They could have addressed this problem with a social vision, with a perspective, really, of worrying about citizenship, which has it. This is clear, citizens are concerned about this problem. Neighbors and neighbors in neighbourhoods are concerned about this problem, but they do not provide any solution that is really next to people. It is true that we all have a responsibility here, also this Government; responsibility, for its part, as public authorities and also responsibility on the part of the Executive. Part of that responsibility lies in not feeding this concern partisanly, but in seeking, as a matter of priority, adequate solutions for citizens' demands, but not in taking advantage of it, that political revenue, feeding and proposing solutions, in many cases, which are ineffectual - as I will tell you - and, in the worst case scenario, also counterproductive and even sometimes contrary to the Constitution, avoiding judicial intervention, even when necessary, as you did in that bill you mentioned. You, by the hand of the far right, continue to confuse public opinion. It needs to be made clear that it is not the same civil eviction proceedings for rent or for mortgage default as a criminal eviction proceedings for those who are illegally occupying property. You continue to sow confusion and alarmism, far from wanting to really solve the issue, but very close to wanting to get that electoral revenue out of you. You have already said that, we are approaching the municipal and autonomous elections, that is why you propose it. They confuse citizens by calling okupa those who don't pay rent, many times - you see - not because they don't want to pay it, but because they can't pay it. [[Applauds]] That's really offensive, Your Honor, and that's where a lot of people aren't going to happen. We are not going to talk about you distinguishing between break-in and usurpation, because you, within your campaign of fear, are interested in making that mixture and no one is clear. Moreover, in one case or another you have never shown sensitivity to the causes of the defaults, nor have you shown sensitivity for the judicial decision to be accompanied by a social solution. But let's focus on your history of housing and octopus betting. There for the month of July 2020 they presented a proposal for a law, which he mentioned, happily rejected. I will sum it up: increases in penalties; amendments to the Civil Prosecution Act, when you yourself are saying that this is a criminal matter, we are dealing with a crime, and changes, as little as possible, to the Horizontal Property Act. They only hit one thing we agreed on: to remove the crimes of breaking and entering the jurisdiction of the jury court. But have you stopped to think that an increase in penalties carries with it another way of substantiating the procedures, much more expensive and much slower, when what we really want to look for here is the speeding up of the processes? Because different processes depending on the penalties as well as different is the competence of the body in charge of their prosecution the more the penalties increase. Are we really here to find a solution to the illegal otupation of properties, to return the properties to their owners, are we here to make it harder for them, Your Honor? This summer - because for you the concern for otupation is a sort of summer virus, see what chance, when people go on vacation - you have submitted a second proposal for a law on this matter, which has not yet been submitted to consideration by this House. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, they are again repeating themselves and they are focusing on the increase in penalties, when what we are warning you is that the increase in penalties can be an obstacle to this procedural speeding up that you say you are looking for. Ladies and gentlemen, citizenship does not make up for the penalty that an occupant of the property may be imposed; what citizenship wants is that there will be no occupations, that we will definitely end the illegal occupations in our country and that, if there are, the eviction of that occupant will be done in an agile manner and that the mafias of the occupation, which take advantage of people who are vulnerable and in need, will be effectively combated. What underlies here - his lordship has also mentioned it - is a problem of neighbourly coexistence. What is also underlying are discomforts that are caused not only to the owner of the house - it strikes to say that in many cases it is a great fork - but also to the community of neighbors of the building where the property is located and by extension also to the neighborhoods where the houses are located. You have not shown half concern for neighbors, you have gone to the brush, to an increase in pain and little more. Neither sensitivity to the neighbors, nor to the mayors and to the mayors - many were also of their party - nor to the legal community. This minister talks about drawing good conclusions from a congress that was held in Malaga on occupation, with the Bar Association of Malaga, the Bar Association of Mataró and the Bar Association of Barcelona. And you, from your backs to your troubles. And you know what the judges say? I don't know if you'll be suspected of not matching what you say. Look, the judicial associations agree among themselves that there are tools to combat crime and that it is not the same, logically, the break-in, which is when we talk about occupied houses, that usurpation, which is when the houses are empty. The Professional Association of the Judiciary says that there is a regulation and that it is a guarantor, and so does the Francisco de Vitoria Association. The head of an investigation court in Madrid, Adolfo Carretero, in public statements, literally says - he is in a newspaper of national circulation -: I have been in the courts for twenty-seven years and I think I have not seen in my life, which I remember, a case of occupation of a private home, all are banks or entities. It is a lie that you cannot act; if the owner presents the title of property is in the act. [[rumors]] Cautelar eviction. An investigating magistrate, Adolfo Carretero, says so. [[Applauds]] Francisco de Vitoria Association. His spokesman, Jorge Fernández Vaquero, also says it in a national newspaper - go to the hemeroteca -: There is no helplessness, that you leave home, you come back and there are people, I've never seen it, is exceptional. [[Mrs. Vázquez Blanco: Well, I do.]] Therefore, I insist, ladies and gentlemen, we focus on the problem... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u217	Mrs. Vazquez, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u218	...we focus on the problem you raise in your debate. The break-in is one thing, with stable statistical data for many years. Don't put fear on people, don't put fear on older people, that there are a lot of older people who don't go on vacation because you're saying you're going to occupy the house in the summer. [[Protests.-Several Members: No! No! No!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are many older people who are very concerned. What is this government doing? For, look, the measures being put in place by this government: Security forces and bodies are an element, an essential agent for evictions, through an instruction that was approved by the Minister of the Interior in 2020, to speed it up and also with respect for fundamental rights. What did you do? There were 13,000 positions of State forces and security forces with the People's Party in the Government, and this Government is recovering thousands of places for security forces and security forces, creating nine places a day. [[a lady MP: Lie!]] What else is this government doing? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u220	It is agreeing on housing policies with rigour, as a whole, putting the general interest ahead of any benefit or electoral revenue. That is the meaning of the housing bill that the Government has referred to the General Courts, for which it encouraged them to give their support - although, for what it has said here, I do not trust them to live up to the circumstances - because it facilitates access to housing, because housing must be the fifth pillar of the welfare state, after health, education, social services and pensions. Because the fundamental basis for citizenship is to have good housing and decent and affordable housing policies, and on this basis we will have already gone more than half the way if we really believe in it. What is this government working on? For two years now, when it was approved, in coordination with the Office of the Attorney-General, it has been working to develop a protocol of action that will also improve the response to the occupations. This protocol provides that, in the face of home invasions, the National Police and the Civil Guard will be able to proceed to the immediate eviction, without the need to request judicial measures in cases of flagrante delinquency; flagrante, I repeat. We also work with the AlertCops app, with which any user can alert security forces and bodies if the break-in occurs. And, above all, ladies and gentlemen, this Government works with social conscience, addressing situations of vulnerability so that security forces and bodies communicate to institutions in particular if they belong to groups of special fragility. But you don't think about it, you don't think about it, you don't think about it, you don't think about it, you don't think about it, you don't think about it, and you've deliberately played to confuse public opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, do not buy the speech from the extreme right. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u222	Thank you, Madam President. We have our own judgment, Mrs Llop. You recognize that there is a problem, but as for the solutions, copy the measures of We can, that is, cross arms [[applause]] I was talking about social housing and the low sensitivity of the People's Party, and you, your government, have been in Moncloa for four years and four months. Do you know how many official protective houses they've built? The cold zero, zero official protective housing and social housing, Mrs Llop in fifty-two months that you have been in the government. [[applause]] So, when I go to talk about social housing, please, a little bit of modesty. He also spoke of insensitivity to evictions. Wow, the party that created the express eviction! Remember, with Zapatero in the Moncloa? You created the express eviction and had to come the People's Party to put some sanity in that real nonsense. I was also talking about our programme, a programme which you obviously have not read, because, of course, if you do, you will find very interesting things, also in the field of occupation, Mrs Llop. His problem is he doesn't walk the street. You, Sanchez and all the ministers of this government have been on the street for a long time. You said that you were on the subway and that you heard about the General Council of the Judiciary, which is simply a lie or an improper occurrence of the greater notary of the Kingdom, of the Minister of Justice. And I would ask you, Mrs Llop, to speak with associations of neighbors in the neighborhoods of our cities, of Barcelona, of Tarragona, of Lleida, of Seville, of Toledo..., they, in the street, in the bakeries, in a supermarket, in the cafes, do talk about the problems that the illegal occupation generates; they talk about it, and a lot, because they suffer it. They suffer and are afraid. I would ask you to go to La Coruña, to the neighborhood of Os Mallos or talk to the Federation of Associations of Neighbors of Lugo, who suffer from violence, insecurity and harassment of criminals, without being given an answer from the Government of Spain, from its ministry, to their problems. And I was saying, Mrs Llop - this reminds me a lot of the little mirror of last week - that there are older people who don't go on vacation because of what the People's Party says. But, Mrs Llop, a little bit of dignity and a little bit of respect for those older gentlemen who are afraid to leave, are afraid to arrive and have their homes occupied. [[Applauds]] Mrs Llop, there have been forty-nine complaints every day in the first quarter of the year. There are neighbors who live with fear, Mrs Llop, yes, with fear, fear that the occupied housing will burn down, putting at risk the lives of all people living in the building - it has happened in Badalona -; with fear of crime linked to many cases of illegal occupation; traders who live with fear of theft in their businesses, or neighbors with fear of theft or assault on the streets. And this, Mrs. Llop, is intolerable, I should worry. Less reproach and more solutions. You cannot look elsewhere, you cannot inhibit or use the fight against corruption as a currency of exchange with your government partners in the budgets, which we will see, Mrs Llop. I wonder if you are not ashamed to hear an Okupa say that he has the right to live in a chalet that he has illegally occupied because he has bought the key for 2000 euros. I've seen this, Mrs. Llop, and those older ladies you were talking about have seen it. Do you consider this admissible in a democracy? What are you going to do? What do you propose to these people? These are the things people talk about. On the subway too, the one you don't step on, of course. Last August, the parliamentary group registered a proposal for an organic law against illegal occupation, neighbourhood coexistence and the protection and security of persons. This is, of course, an open proposal which we want to see debated here and which is why we expect the Socialist Party to vote in favour, to debate and to make proposals and contributions, Mrs Llop, and not to vote against as you have done so far throughout this Parliament. This is an organic law proposal that could basically be summed up in either being with the okupa or defending the owners. We propose to define illegal occupation for the first time. We propose that an occupied property cannot be considered a residence or domicile. We want housing to be evicted within a maximum of 24 hours and for the process to begin with the eviction, regardless of the subsequent criminal or civil proceedings. We want to reinforce the crime of usurpation. Yeah, let's not be a minor felony, Mrs. Llop. We consider it essential to penalize the mafias who are calling for their wide range. We want the registration of the okupa in the municipal register to be deemed null and for the owners to be returned the IBI and the property tax that they might have paid while that illegal occupation lasted. And we also want the owner's usual residence status to be maintained. Mrs Llop, are you going to allow these proposals to be discussed so that you can make them your own? I will finish as I did in the previous intervention. Mrs. Llop, the okupa is not evicted, it is evicted. The vulnerable is protected without transferring responsibility to private citizens, be they public administrations. And to the mafias, Mrs Llop, they are pursued as in any civilized democracy. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Mr. Hispan, you are heard perfectly. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u224	I heard him, too. [[Laughter]] And it's true. Your Honor, I am not going to further increase the tension on a subject that is already sufficiently tense for citizens, for neighbours, for some neighbourhoods, for mayors and for women mayors. I have already told you that many were from your party and that in the end they seek to achieve the well-being of citizens. We recognize that access to housing is a problem, an additional serious problem for a large segment of the population, and that rising rental prices are also a problem. Illegal occupation is also a serious problem, and it is a problem to which an institutional response can be given and an institutional response must be given to alleviate it. That's what this government is about. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers approved a first draft of the general budgets of the State with a historical social expenditure, more than 266 189 million euros. Six out of every 10 euros will go to social spending, revaluing pensions under the CPI, which has not taken place for 13 years and thus contributing to the pension exchange. Aid for dependency is also increased by EUR 620 million, an additional 152 %. There are many people who are in these situations of need, who need help and an answer. Young people also have a problem with access to housing. There are EUR 12 741 million for youth policies, and resources for young people are also increasing. In the area of housing, the young rental voucher is consolidated with an additional 200 million, allocating 5.4% more resources for access to housing, up to 3472 million. And the public entity of the soil will have 260 million for an affordable rent. I imagine that you too agree with these needs, and I hope that we can find ourselves when we can talk about approving these budgets. We need to attend to those who need a housing solution, but we will also listen and look at those who come home after a long working day and who want to be at peace at home, at home, in a healthy neighborhood. And we have to tell them that if the floor below is careless, because it's from a big fork or because that floor is integrated into a debt portfolio that is changing from hand to hand, coexistence can't come out badly from that situation. Once again, they cannot pay those who strive against the powerful, and this government is going to be here. And this government is taking action, I have already said. He is aware of housing problems, but what we are not going to do is lend ourselves to the game of alarming the population. And perhaps there is a problem that is, logically, much greater in other parts of Spain, but you try to scare and appeal to the vote of fear saying little less that you go down to buy the bread and that you have occupied the house. And that is not the case, as the judges have already said, because the judges themselves and the judicial associations have said so. Really, take this issue seriously. Take seriously other political forces in this House that have tabled amendments - you said so too - to the law on organizational efficiency. The Government is seriously committed to improving the situation of landowners and neighbours suffering from the grave consequences of illegal occupation, and we have an extraordinary opportunity in those amendments to reach agreement, and I call on them to come to that understanding, because we agree that the mafias of occupation must be combated, and, above all, the problems of neighbours must be alleviated and solved by responding to the owners and also those in such vulnerable situations. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be positive, let us be constructive, and let us get this issue out of the partisan debate because it is really what citizens are waiting for from us, who are the government, but also from you, who are in opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF EMERGENCY INTERPELATIONS: [[CONTINUATION]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, to enable the Government to explain the measures it intends to adopt to help THE SPANISH FAMILIES TO BE COMING END OF MONTHS [[File number 173/000173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u226	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain the measures it intends to take to help the Spanish families reach the end of the month. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u227	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when Pedro Sánchez made that inappropriate speech in the Senate from a president of the government, between insolvency and bad faith - when it was not insolvency, but rather insolence - I calculated that it would take two or three weeks for the whole speech to be shattered in front of his feet and the truth is that it has succeeded. It was an inappropriate, intolerable speech, absolutely inadequate for the stature of a president of the Spanish Government because, once again, it demonstrated the absolute intolerance that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has with truth, logic and capacity. We, in a model which, of course, we defend, a model of pure freedom, of entrepreneurial freedom, of individual freedom, do not agree with a subsidized economy either with a planned economy or with that thickness of that dialectic between rich and poor which, in fact, are infiltrating society and which, of course, binds them with a part of history that is no longer present. Of course, there are poor people, of course there are poor people, but that discourse of social justice is very sorry for today and for the reality of a market economy. But they're going to allow me one thing. They're gonna let me do some sort of logic analysis today. Today we are going to go to a faculty of Logic, Political Science or Philosophy and we are going to analyze all the paradoxes of the Spanish Workers' Socialist Party and the United We can. There are two famous mathematical paradoxes, which are the liar's paradox - also called the pinocho paradox - and the grandfather's paradox. There is a third paradox which we will see today and which is represented by a Member of this House. The first paradox, which is the paradox of the liar, is represented, for example, when the first Vice-President of the Government says that she cannot accept the proposal for a tax reduction on VAT for commodities proposed by the People's Party, and the second Vice-President of the Government arrives, denies her that option and says that it is a good measure. Two Vice-Presidents, one Government. Today, they are both in the same Government. Then comes Minister Garzón, confronted with himself and with all the others, with the universe itself, with his party and with the rest of the government - I don't know who he has left to face; even, I say, with his own ego - and says no, that this of lowering taxes certainly breaks the conceptual framework of the left, which cannot be, that anticipates a loss. But the next day, twenty-four hours later, he unfolds his personality and says he is very in agreement with the tax rebate proposed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. By the way, the first proposal that leaves out of the tax rebates to all rents below 14,000 euros, that is to say to 10 million people, and leaves out the new rich Spaniards, who are the Spanish middle class that in this turn to the radicality of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party have considered since the Spanish mesocracy is high class and that obviously no action must be taken with them. 7.5 million families with incomes between 21,000 and 60,000 euros. But then comes the first vice president of the government - again for the paradox of the liar - and says: no, it is that the growth of Spain is robust. Clemenceau said, when they gave him the speeches, that they would avoid putting adjectives on him. Mrs. Calviño has a problem with the adjectives and is that every day she looks for one. Really, sometimes it's good not to get into the thickness or the jungle or the ocean of adjectives, because you end up rotting the speech. It is better that the speech is tempered and there are no adjectives, because it is not robust. In fact, then came the second vice president, at hours, and said: no, no, if we go on the road to the technical recession. A minister, two vice-presidents; different versions, that's where we're going. But, of course, there is also the contradiction or paradox of grandfather. What's that about? In that to deny what the grandson says I have to go back in the past, travel to the past and tell Grandpa not to say what he said. In this case, the grandfather's paradox is perfectly represented by Minister Montero. Minister Montero said for three years consecutively that she was not going to raise taxes. It has raised 42 taxes and social contributions. He then said that he did not intend to lower taxes, because it was impossible in accordance with Community rules, for here he has managed to lower taxes. That's Grandpa's paradox. But most of all, we're already in Puig. Puig represents the AVE of socialist politics. It began to fly and all of a sudden all the socialist barons flew out behind. Now it turns out we've moved from tax dumping to tax camping. It's absolutely nothing. Before Madrid made fiscal dumping, now what does it do when the Valencian Community also lowers taxes? The Socialist Party is fixed and discontinuous. It is fixed on incapacity, it is fixed on sterility, it is obviously fixed on the insubstantiality of its measures, but it is discontinuous because last year there were no people with needs? Two years ago, there were no people with needs? And why didn't taxes go down then? By pure electoralism, by pure electoralism, because there are elections next year. We know, therefore, how the fixed political discontinuities of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party work. Faced with this, there is a third modality - it will allow me the deputy to play with his name, but, please, without any acrid -, which is the paradox of citizen Patxi and Lopez. It's the paradox of the bodies found. In the morning he benefits from the deflating of the tax in the Basque Country, but he arrives in Madrid and does not want to vote for the deflating of the tax in Madrid. Patxi denies Lopez, Lopez denies Patxi. And when they're in Sondica, at the airport, they meet again intimately and wonder if we deflate or not deflate. [[Applauds]] That's the theory of the bodies found. But who's lying? Who's lying about all this? Look, I'm going to tell you very clearly: it comes out of the lie, from socialism and from communism I doubt very much that you will come out. From the lie, I insist, it comes out of socialism and communism, as you put it, it is very difficult to get out because families are tired. Families know that they have lost 20% of purchasing power in eighteen months. Families know that they are going to have to pay a variable interest mortgage, that they are going to have to pay 135 euros more a month after the euribor review, that they are going to have to pay 1620 euros more a year. Families know that you have obtained an over-added tax collection of EUR 27 billion. Unproductive public expenditure in the face of productive private expenditure, which is expenditure from free economies. That's where the money has to be. It turns out that Pedro Sánchez is now making jokes about the People's Party saying that money has to be in the pockets of the Spaniards. Of course it has to be in the pocket of the Spaniards. All that is not in the pocket of the Spaniards is a problem because it leads to a planned economy and a loss of freedom. But, of course, if you, I say, have once again darkly grasped the foundations and foundations of old socialism, old communism, we have a problem. That is why we are proposing - and I am convinced that they are going to listen to us - one, a decrease in the VAT on basic products to 4%, a deflatation of the IRPF in the first three stages, at least with the corresponding correction in the deductions this year. Two, an extension of the VAT reduction to electricity and, of course, to gas all winter, because you will already see, you are going to jump from forest and milestone to milestone you will continue to make reforms every four months. Three, an update, of course, of the conditions of people entering the field...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u228	Mr. Garcés, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u229	The corporal. ...of the scope of the aid because of the mortgage vulnerability. I have said it and I repeat it, of communism and socialism it is difficult to get out, but, since they do not know how to do it, let others that we can do it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u230	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u231	Thank you, Madam President. We have come this morning, almost late, to discuss a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Party on aid to families in order to reach the end of the month, to families who are indeed in one of the most difficult moments of recent years. The point is that it is a little ironic to read the measures proposed by the People's Party, which are essentially tax cuts, by a party that climbed the IRPF up to five times in the previous legislature, even more so than the United Left asked. It is ironic that they are proposed by the party that raised VAT to 21%, the party that raised IBI. It is ironic, on the part of the party of the copayment of medicines to pensioners, on the part of the party of the elimination of the deduction of professional diesel, on the part of the party that allowed the autonomous communities to tax the hydrocarbons and the party that allowed the eviction of half Spain, to come to talk about vulnerable and banks. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, however - and this is shared by both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the parties of the revolving doors - with these measures that you propose, thank God - and we all know that they are promises in the opposition and that they are most likely traditions in the Moncloa - they will be scolded by their colleagues on the boards of directors. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish are very tired. They don't know how tired the Spaniards are of hearing us talk about patches permanently. Look, in VOX, we do think we should lower taxes on the Spaniards. We think we should cut public spending on things that are unnecessary and, of course, would help. But we do not come here to say that half a point must be lowered to such a tax. No, no, We come here to say that for families to truly reach the end of the month, structural measures must be urgently addressed. [[Applauds]] We have come to say that the strengthening of Spanish families necessarily involves turning back to what you have been doing for decades, tens of years by auctioning our sovereignty in different areas. And here's VOX talking about sovereignty again. But it is common sense, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to combat energy poverty, that for Spanish families to be able to sell their homes and arrive at the end of the month, we cannot pass a law that prevents Spanish people from exploring and exploiting their own resources. We cannot base our energy policy on flying thermal power plants and shutting down nuclear power plants. We have to bet on a country that truly owns its resources and that can have control over energy, precisely in order to be able to control the supply and to be able to strengthen the Spanish families. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no use in your electoral and short-term policies at four years' notice, there is no real use in patches in the IRPF if we continue to open the door to unfair competition that destroys our jobs and our industry. Ladies and gentlemen, let me see if I can get important questions asked without any prejudice. According to the latest quality of life survey of the National Statistical Institute, the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion accounts for 27.8% of the population, which is more than 13 million people. Do you believe that in Spain with more than 13 million people at risk of poverty we can truly have open border policies with which we bring seven million Africans without resources? Do you really believe that this is not going to have a direct impact on the poverty of the Spaniards? Do you think it is possible to put an end to social exclusion, to poverty, to child poverty, to severe poverty, to that one and a half million people who cannot even eat meat? It is impossible if certain policies are implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the only way to protect the Spanish hard is to protect their country hard. The heroes of this story are unfortunately not the rulers; the heroes of this story are the mothers of families who spend the last two weeks of the month on rice and pasta, the heroes of this story are the grandparents who support the accounts of whole families with all their members unemployed with their pensions, and the heroes of this story are the parents who do not even see their children so that their children can eat. Ladies and gentlemen, it is all the modest Spaniards to whom you have taken everything from them, but who do not resign...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u232	Mrs. De Meer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u233	I'm done, Madam President. They do not resign and rise every morning despite their policies. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Meer. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u235	Thank you very much, Madam President. The question answered by the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs, Mrs Calviño, regarding the measures necessary to help the Spanish families arrive at the end of the month, makes therapy essential, which the Chamber guides to the government in its mismanagement, excellently defined by the three paradoxes described by Mr Garcés Sanagustín. After more than four years of councils of ministers chaired by Pedro Sánchez, society is immersed in a serious and growing economic crisis. The failure of its policy, attributing the problems to the impacts of the KOVID-19 pandemic and those of the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops, is reflected in Eurostat data, which find that, under identical circumstances, Spain is the country of the European Union that offers the worst responses to the crisis, which puts us in the most negative official indicators and singularly not referring to the gross domestic product. More and more Spanish families are approaching and entering poverty levels every day because in the last year they have seen their purchasing power severely reduced due to factors such as inflation, the rise in the shopping basket, the rise in energy prices and, in general, by an economic suffocation from which fiscal pressure cannot be excluded. By the way, the Government has already perpetrated tweaks to cover the official indicators that measure poverty in Spain. With the forced resignation of the president of the INE, updates and quiet reforms are announced to make up the bad data in another sample of infestation of key agencies of our democratic architecture to put it at the service of the partisan interests of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, every week there are initiatives in this Chamber that seek to correct the economic course and are systematically rejected, although they do not cease to lose value; on the contrary, they are important in the face of the drift to which the Government is dragging us and, in fact, we have seen how some of them are applied a posteriori, despite the fact that at the time they received major disqualifications from the members of the blue bank. Hence the relevance of the measures contained in the different points of this initiative, because they clearly benefit the well-being of Spanish families in the face of vital difficulties in reaching the end of the month. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we not agree with all these proposals in fiscal restraint, when just a few hours ago it was known that Asturias is one of the Spanish autonomous communities with the highest tax burden? Asturias declines year after year in the autonomic index of fiscal competitiveness. This explains, among other factors, the demographic abyss, ageing, the lack of births, the youth exodus in search of work and also the hardships of families to cover their most elementary expenses. This motion seeks to promote measures to stop self-praising by the Government, to stop taking out the particular botafumeiro and to apply to deflate the income tax on natural persons, at least in its first stages, and to extend to the whole winter period, and not only until 31 December, the reduction of the value added tax on gas and electricity bills, which have been multiplied. With regard to the reduction of VAT on basic items in the shopping basket, it is worth noting the measures announced a few days ago to make it less taxed on female intimate hygiene products, but this is something that should not be delayed for a single day, since it has been claimed here in Congress for years through various parliamentary initiatives that were approved despite the votes against the two parties that are part of the government coalition. Madam President, you have concluded by reiterating my agreement on the need not of urgency but of urgency for these different proposals to help Spanish households in their very harsh daily ultra-marathon to climb the mountain of inflation, reach the peak of the famine of life and reach the end of the month. After this morning's control session, when the blue bank's auto-bomb overdose was seen and heard, the proposals contained in this motion are irrefutable, although I suspect that the groups supporting the Pedro Sánchez government will pass them through the keel. We will have to keep rowing; paradoxes it, paradox comes. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u237	Thank you very much, Madam President. How clever, Mr Martínez Oblanca, because we are going to vote against it, as you expected. I must admit that I come to this rostrum somewhat frustrated, because I thought that we were going to have a debate more linked to what was the main motivation, what this government is going to do to improve or to move forward in helping families to reach the end of the month, and yet we have come across a rather still, almost labyrinthic, account of intertwined paradoxes. I will tell you one thing, what would be paradoxical is that the socialist deputy to whom he has referred - unfolding in his name and surnames - will be in Sondika, because Sondika has been closed for twenty years. That would be really paradoxical. Perhaps that is the paradox of the grandfather to which you alluded and which you would have to apply. I'm going to focus on the initiative. Did we see in this initiative or did we think that we were going to see something to improve universal and free public health, that surely we all want to have and that we can want, enjoy and enjoy for ourselves and our neighbors? Well, no. It's logical too. When what is being done in communities governed by your party is to close health centers, come here to make a proclamation about public health, universal and free, perhaps it was too much. Do we see anything here about public education and about accessible, universal and free education, that is, how to improve that? Neither, but it is also true that it would be complicated to do so while we make a scholarship system that improves everyone equally, have the income you have - you are not alone in this denunciation of the argumental logic of rich versus poor, because Pay also seems to agree with you -. The strange thing would be for you to bring here something in favor of the public educational model, when where they govern they are giving scholarships so that the children of the rich can continue in those elite centers where they are. Are they planning something to improve access to transport or to free transport? Neither, and it's also logical, because that's probably how they would have to face a fire cone with the big employers of private transport who have decided that the roads that don't pay - because we pay them all - are for their use and enjoyment and for their benefit and business. In short, it is always a question of prioritizing and prioritizing the private sector in front of the public. You deny the intervention of the state's public power in the economy, because you talk about economic planning and you talk about freedom, but what you don't really tell us is that what you or your party - and all the right-wings, because in this you are not the only depositaries of that line of argument - you want, that is to make the state disappear so that everything is in private hands, so that, as you can't balance or redistribute this society, there will always continue to be a level of inequality such that we get the last ones against the penultimates to pick up the crumbs of a cake that will always continue to spread the ones above. That is the reality of the economic and social model that we still suffer today and which somehow reflects. [[The lady]] As I said, we thought that they would include measures to help workers, but, of course, we should have talked about the ERTE, about raising the unemployment benefit and the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage and, having voted all this against in this House, it would be difficult for them. Were you going to talk about the right to housing? No, we have already seen it in the previous point, it is better to put the right to private property in front of the right to decent housing for any citizen. And, of course, were they going to talk about tax reform, now that they're in that crazy race to lower taxes? No, they were not going to talk about an in-depth tax reform that would have to raise this. And what do they propose? To lower VAT at all times and in all circumstances. Indeed, that initiative seems to be more designed to please the Foundation for the Advancement of Freedom or the TAX Foundation, which are the lobbies that are driving this whole debate about this amortization of the state so that the private will occupy everything, what else. I'm gonna end up with four notes of reality. They're not paradoxes, nor do I retreat to very remote places. There is a ruler of an autonomous community who decided to lower the property tax for a small part of his population, with that he stopped collecting 900 million euros, but found that two weeks later he has to ask the father state, that you want it not to exist, 1000 million euros in order to be able to face the guarantee of water for all and all the citizens of his autonomous community. And all that while you have a lot of golf courses in an area that they call the Costa del Sol. This gentleman is Moreno Bonilla and is president of his party. We can talk about something else. We can talk about a European right-wing muse, like Liz Truss, who had the great idea two weeks ago of lowering taxes on the rich. It has caused its Government to sink and its own members of the Government to say that they will no longer win the next elections. I'll give you another piece of information. Its partner in another autonomous community, in Castile and León, has the great idea of spending public money - that should not be squandering - in seeing the viability of a nuclear power plant that the owners themselves, NUCLENOR, have said that it has no viability. But, well, that must be effective and good management. And I'm done with another one. As Rajoy said, copy, but copy well. Because all that has to do with the fourth point and the code of good practice, because it does not come close to what would have to be done. In short, as a campaign in France says, you surely want to take us to a stage where everything is private, but when everything is private, we will be deprived of everything. I think public service lives!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u238	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u239	Thank you, President. Of course, we understand that the situation is complicated and that citizens need answers. However, I believe that instead of offering them thoughtful and valued answers, we are witnessing ad-hoc tax measures that are leading to a crazy race about tax changes, about who, how, when and what taxes are lowered, without providing any assessment of their effects or impact, or even an analysis of their convenience, and that much less obeys any medium- and long-term fiscal strategy, but obeys an electoral interest. A career has been opened and no one wants to stay behind, and in this career, of course, they have forgotten that fiscal co-responsibility that combines fiscal responsibility with autonomy and that the lehendakari Patxi López knows very well. And, worse, it has also opened a debate between the poor and the rich which, of course, can be very dangerous. After alluding to tax cuts from the Autonomous Communities on Thursday, the Government presented us with its battery of tax measures in response and, in some cases, as a counter-reform to certain measures taken by those, by the Autonomous Communities; measures which, by the way, in some cases already proposed by the People's Government with Mr Montoro. We are not going to enter this race because we understand that in fiscal matters it is necessary to maintain a path of stability and prudence. And this, of course, is not at odds with continuing to analyse the situation of high-price inflation that is being experienced and with proposing fiscal measures also for families and businesses, but in a cyclical, selective way, within a framework of progressiveness and sustainability, which should also be adopted with the maximum institutional and also political consensus, because having an efficient public system that responds to the needs of society depends on the fiscal system that politicians provide to a country. We do not share proposals for massive tax cuts, and this is also said by the European Commission, which is concerned about the harmful effects of this tax reduction, especially as regards the reduction of VAT. We must also see what has happened in this respect with the United Kingdom. Having said that, in relation to the motion and its petitum, with regard to deflation, we already stand in favour of it at the time, because we have done so in Euskadi and because we understand that deflation of the IRPF is not to lower taxes, as it is being said, but to bear the same taxation that we will bear if inflation did not exist, that is, to maintain the same fiscal structure as before inflation. Another thing is that this tax structure is not the right one because it is not progressive enough, but that is another issue that should be addressed in that tax reform that seems to have been postponed. With regard to VAT rebates, of course, some are already covered by different decrees until 31 December. Other rebates have been announced and appear to be raised in the draft general State budgets. Other VAT reductions relating to food - some already have some reduced rate - are not selective and affect the same, regardless of income, thus benefiting more those who consume most and also include some foods, but leave others out or leave them open. We really understand that, if we lower some, it should be the very essential ones and this does not reduce the price problem. It is about helping families, yes, but of course we believe it is more useful to do so with direct taxes than with indirect taxes, and even with direct income subsidies. As for updating the vulnerability condition of the code of good practice, we said this last week in the Citizens motion regarding variable mortgages. We believe that it is necessary to help people, debtors in difficulty, but we must do so, indeed, by improving and strengthening the protection framework for the most vulnerable mortgage debtor, with new mortgage moratoriums, expansion of social emergency aid and even making it possible for banks to facilitate innovations or subrogations of variable mortgages to competitive fixed rates or others, and it seems that, in this regard, the first vice-president is already working with the sector to adopt those that are most effective. We shall see whether any of the amendments are accepted or whether we are going to vote on points to establish a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u240	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u241	President, ladies and gentlemen, let us draw the context, because many things have been said here during this debate. The Spanish policy is set up in what we could say to a fiscal auction, in which autonomous members of the People's Party and autonomous members of the Socialist Party participate, and to which the Government has now joined, because, of course, we are in an electoral campaign. In this market, in this scenario and in this context, the People's Party presents a motion whose main proposal is a measure copied from Citizens. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr Garcés, copied from Citizens, because I remind you that this plenary has already debated and voted for the Citizens' proposal to deflate the IRPF sections in February, and this same initiative was also discussed in the Finance Committee in March and, in an inexplicable way, you abstained. Our vote is in favour of deflating the rate of the IRPF and not perpetuating this hidden tax increase to the Spaniards; covert tax increase that turns the private effort of all citizens into the udder that nourishes their uncontrolled spiral of spending, embodied, for example, in the next budgets of the State, where one in two euros will be destined to pay debt interest and pension expenditure. Look, let's see if it's clear to you at once. Deflation of taxes is not the same as lowering taxes, it is not raising them. Deflation of taxes is a fair measure that reverses what the Treasury is collecting more from inflation: nothing less than an extra 27 billion in what goes on this year. That's an extra benefit - you'd have to impose a tax on them. Deflation is a fair measure because that money, which is an extra money, is of the citizens and where it is best, although Mr Patxi López does not believe it, is in the current account of the citizens. I'm sorry Mr. Patxi López isn't here to hear these words, but they move them. Yesterday's words by Mr Patxi López demonstrate that it is you, the Socialist Party gentlemen, who are liberticidists and paternalists who consider citizens useless to do with their money what they want, telling them that their money is better in the hands of the government than in their current account. But let's see, your government, the one that beats records of ministries and advisors named by finger, that of the trips in Falcon, that of the teleseries of its president, the government that carries 213 million euros in institutional marketing campaigns! And Patxi López comes out to tell the Spaniards that your money is used better than they are. That's really not very tactful. Since that 'public money is nobody' from former vice president Carmen Calvo In 2004, I see that you still think the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, with inflation the only one that wins is the government and the Spanish loses, because because of inflation the same nominal amount of money implies less economic capacity than years ago. The existing thresholds of the general scale of the IRPF have not changed since 2015 and in this same period, ladies and gentlemen, prices have increased by 12%, by 10% only in what is going on in the year. In addition, I tell you that not deflating the IRPF goes against our Constitution, the constitutional principle that each Spanish must contribute to public expenditure according to the economic capacity of each, a impaired economic capacity in Spanish households as a result of inflation that has not been compensated by the corresponding adjustment in the taxes to be paid. It also includes the PP motion an update of the code of good practice for the benefit of mortgage debtors. A measure - we must recognize - much less ambitious than that we asked from Citizens and which was debated and voted last week, which was that of the temporary and extraordinary deduction in the IRPF to lessen the effects of the rapid rise of the euribor on the variable mortgages. But what is clear with this motion is that we recognize and gather the tiredness of the Spaniards, that we ask the Government to act, to do it quickly and to do it rigorously, because the Government cannot and must not be paid at the expense of the effort of all Spaniards the longest and most expensive electoral campaign in history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u242	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u243	Good afternoon, President, with your permission. Good afternoon and again be patient, because whoever has the kindness to listen to me may sound like the sound of my song. In Catalan people of a certain age we call it The Song of Angry. I will look for the translation to make life easier for the services of the House. Mr. Garcés, lately you come in disguised as Robin Hood, but you have been known for years, to you and to your methods, and to what is worse, to your results. Of the four points in your motion we can only agree with one and I believe that common sense will make the Government pay attention to us. The reduction of VAT on gas and electricity should not be only until 31 December but should be maintained until the end of winter for pure environmental consistency. Parentheses, let's see if by the time the winter's over we can get the electricity to the Royal Cañada. Today's been two years. [[Applauds]] The PP motion reminded me of his impossive, torponous, ramplona attitude, especially in the third point of his admirable motion. Yesterday, the feast of San Francisco de Assisi - patron saint of the veterinarians whose currency is Higia pecoris, salus populi, which is like saying one health in Latin - yesterday precisely, World Animal Day, fulfilled six years a modest PNL winner of the House's support, in which a server and my group advocate returning VAT charged to health for animals from 21 to 10%. You, Mr. Garcés, rejected her with an Olympic smile, though none like that of your unspeakable Minister Montoro. [[Laughter]] It turns out that you renew your commitment to the containment of taxes to the brave, when you are in opposition. By the way, in the case of veterinary VAT, the PSOE and its partners are also not allowed to breastfeed precisely because they have had occasion to carry out their own vote on that occasion, especially when they also had the burden of including this reduction in their government agreement. Soon they will have opportunities to fulfill - I hope -, or we will begin to sense that smile of Montoro on their faces. Returning to the motion, I have already quoted you, gentlemen of the PP, last week to your co-religionary, the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, when he referred to certain measures of fat brush such as those which propose - almost what bothers you to repeat - that to decapitalize the public coffers to act by sprinkling, without any surgical intention, to benefit the families without objective to which, or deflate the IRPF with an intended immediate effect without taking into account the most obvious, that the declaration is exercise - immediate, little -, I do not think that it has just the propaganda effect that they propose it. As Professor Juan Luis Manfredi rightly points out: 'In the umpteenth lost battle, ComPol's framework is the rise or fall of taxes. No one talks about projects, accountability, quality of spending, creation of public value.' To finish, mortgages. How about we accept what Esquerra proposed weeks ago? Are the guys going up? We facilitate and shorten the passage of variable-to-fix mortgages with simplification and downsizing of procedures. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u245	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Garcés, you could have taken advantage of this initiative to enter into the tax debate that is taking place in our country and throughout Europe. And I say well, come in, because so far only the old, tired litany of a widespread tax drop has been heard from its spokesmen. They just remembered. The United Kingdom has taught us all that what this policy implies is the road to hell: loss of confidence of the agents; disinvestment; deterioration of the exchange rate; dizzying increase in public debt. We already have this lesson. You have had a golden opportunity to step back and listen to what the economic teams of the IMF, OECD and the European Central Bank are saying. But no, instead of this you come in with a pamphlet, let me tell you that quite inflammable and incendiary, in which it is more or less confirmed that the Government of Spain is guilty of inflation, of the energy crisis and even of the death of Manolete, without nuances. It is no wonder that last week Vice-President Calviño defined the question - I think Mr Manglano did - which precedes this motion, as a set of philosophical-political disquisitions. I am less elegant and could say that today we have breakfast with a sart of phrases more false than a hard wood. Let us speak, for example, of insidious assertions, without any real basis, taken directly from the gossip of some of you. They come to say that the Iberian exceptionality in energy matters has impoverished the Spaniards - this is written, Mr Garcés - when all the objective calculations, all of them, establish a multimillionaire saving for Spain compared with its European partners. Not content with such a kick to the evidence, they say, without moving a single tab, that families have lost 20% of purchasing power since February 2021 - you have said it again here today -. Let's see, Mr. Garcés, where do you get these things from? Where do you get them? The inflation accumulated since February 2021 is around 13%, Mr Garcés; that is to say, even if all wages had been frozen, which has not happened, there would have been such a loss of purchasing power. There has undoubtedly been a worrying deterioration in the purchasing power of families, I do not deny it, but if what you say was true, the Spanish economy had long collapsed and the Spanish squares and streets would have been burning for months. I do not know whether your ladies and gentlemen from the PP are confusing reality and desires, but I think that, when we come to this point, we really need a little bit more rigour, I think. The truth is that, as we have already warned other times from this very rostrum, the wages in Spain will lose 4 points of purchasing power at the end of the year, at the best of the scenarios, which is already in itself, without any kind of demagogic adornment, quite tragic. That is why it is so important to put in place a battery of measures to counteract this effect, such as those which, by the way, are already being dealt with and which, under no circumstances, have received the slightest comment on their part. I wonder what you think of the new tax reform package. Anything to say about the new tax on big fortunes or the increase in the type of capital income? Or do we have to give good cause for praise from the spokesmen of the European People's Party, including the President, Mrs Von Der Leyen? On the other hand, new tax benefits for lower labour incomes are now added to the fall in electricity and gas VAT. The Government has calculated that approximately half of the wages in our country will benefit from this measure. Any comments? Do you agree? Don't you agree with this measure? Important tax rebates for self-employed and SMEs have also been announced. Are you guys still thinking about how to react? Aren't you following the news? It gives you the feeling that you do agree with these measures, because it only bothers you, apparently, the fact that you have been improvised, you say. Of course, there is a problem that you accuse the government of improvising, when that is exactly what all the governments of the world have been doing over the past few years. Or how do you believe, if not, that a time crisis like the one you are going through, in which the old paradigms have proved obsolete? Improvising, Mr. Garcés. I'm already going to the resolutions of your initiative. I don't want to stop at the first, because they seem completely predictable to me, but I am going to stop at their last point, at the mortgage point. One can read it quickly and one can think that the People's Party has suffered an attack of indecentness or social sensitivity by talking about updating the vulnerability condition in the code of good practice. Of course, the code is voluntary and you also add this trap clause: in dialogue with the sector. I'm going to be allowed by the president to refer to an unparalleled and great character from this country, Mr. Miguel Gila, whom you surely know, and try to reproduce a monologue dialogue of those he had. Imagine this conversation, Mr. Garcés, so with the phone, remember?: 'Hello, very good, very good. Is that the banking sector? Let's put it on. Look, look, what do you think of sacrificing a little of your benefits to help people in need? Oh, you don't agree, do you? Okay, so nothing, don't worry. We've already had a dialogue, and it's not going to happen. Thank you. Goodbye, very good.' Well, Mr. Garcés, goodbye, very good. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guerra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u247	Thank you, President. Mr. Garcés, you look like the Comedy Club, but your jokes are bad, really bad. [[Applauds]] Paradoxes. You were talking about paradoxes. I'll tell you about your paradoxes. They say we have to lower taxes and, when they govern, they go up to fifty taxes; if not, you ask Mr. M. Rajoy. Or, for example, Mr Manglano, who made this inquiry last week and who, on the other hand, cannot defend it. Why can't you defend her? Because when he was Economics Councillor of the Community of Madrid he was characterized by increasing taxes. The price of daycares rose, the price of daycares rose for older people, so much so that pensioners had to invest 30% of their pensions in paying daycares. And, Mr. Garcés, he went up to the school dining rooms, and he went up to them so much that the families sent their children and their daughters to school with taper. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, with the mat. [[Applauds]] And what did you do? Did they lower the price of the dining room? No, no, Did you increase the fellowships for the dining room? Neither. What you did was that the families had to pay for going with taper to school. They created the tax on the taper, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That's what you do when you rule, raise taxes to the middle and working classes - yes, let's talk a lot about middle and working classes - and raise those of the middle and working classes to maintain the privileges of the powerful. Look, a few days ago President Ayuso accused the Government of Spain of screwing with the taxes of big fortunes. [[Makes the mark of quotes with your fingers]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, who have it nearby, explain to Mrs Ayuso that that is not to be stuffed, that asking you to contribute more to those who have more to guarantee the rights of all and that it is fiscal justice and that to be stuffed is something else, that I am sure your party sounds more. [[Applauds]] Their values were clear in the management they made of the last crisis. The Spanish families felt alone, abandoned and unprotected when you let the bank take away their homes, their floors and their homes. That is the concern you have for Spanish families. And, in the face of their evictions, we show a new path, the model of Pedro Sánchez, who has raised pensions and shielded them to the CPI, who has increased the interprofessional minimum wage, who has approved the electric social bonus, who has caught up with the gas and reduced their taxes, also those of electricity, who has increased the scholarships, which has improved transport. And all that, Mr. Garcés, we have done in spite of you, we have done so with the vote against always of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And sometimes, they have not been satisfied with that alone, for example, with labour reform. You have resorted to the labor reform of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! Why, Mr. Garcés? Why are you so disturbed by a reform that guarantees income and gives stability to Spanish families? Why do they despise Spanish families so much by voting against absolutely all the measures that this government has pushed for Spanish families to reach the end of the month? Why do they even vote against the measures that their electorate supports and sees with good eyes? Do you know why you vote against all that? I'll tell him. Because you only vote in favour of your class interests to maintain your privileges, even if that means, Mr Garcés, voting against the Spaniards, which is what you do. [[applause.-Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Garcés. Yeah. When you rule, citizenship loses rights. In Castile and León, for example, the offices are already closed and doctors are missing, thanks to the cuts of Fernández Mañueco. In Andalusia the largest social dining room has been closed, while Moreno Bonilla gives the property tax to those who have the most. In the Community of Madrid, of the 500 residences for the elderly, 475, 95% of them, are in private hands. This is the model of Feijóo for Spanish families, cutting, cutting and cutting the public to deprive the middle and working class of everything, depriving them of doctors, nurses, teachers, social services, public residences. You have never helped Spanish families. To defend the Spanish families is to defend the common good, to defend the Spanish families is to defend the welfare state and to defend the Spanish families is to increase the taxes of those who have the most to guarantee the rights of all. [[Applauds]] That is what this parliamentary group has always done and what you have never done, Mr Garcés. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am sorry to tell you that this is not over here. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will continue to work to make Spain an inclusive, equal and fair country. Make it clear we're going to do it, despite you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u248	Mr Garcés, do you accept the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u249	We don't accept it. That you vote on your own terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-05-CD221005.u250	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
