ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. COMMISSION OPINIONS ON LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES : [[CONTINUATION]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u2	We begin with the opinion on the draft law regulating the protection of persons reporting on normative and anti-corruption offences. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u3	Thank you very much, President. We have completed the procedure in this House for the transposition of Directive 2019/1937, which is already out of date, having expired on 17 December last year. The main purpose of the project, as you know, is to protect citizens by reporting violations of the Union's legal order within the framework of a professional relationship, both in the public and private sectors of medium-sized and large enterprises; by extending this protection to actions and omissions which may constitute serious or very serious criminal or administrative infringements in their own legal order, other than the Community; and by submitting, in turn, all these two areas to the same provisions and objectives, including not only the protection of whistleblowers in order to avoid retaliation, but also to address the lack of information on infringements of Union and strictly internal law, to improve competition in the market, to contribute to transparency and to avoid corruption and fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, our group appreciates the text that we discussed at this sitting after its passage through the House and the Commission and the numerous amendments that have been accepted, both from our group and from the other parliamentary groups, without prejudice - as I will point out below - to any of these being maintained for this procedure, which I shall briefly explain to you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u5	Thus, and first of all, in our amendment 20, we proposed the amendment of the sixth final in relation to the competition titles on which the competence of the State is based for the elaboration of this law in relation to article 149, paragraph 1, which, in order not to become a tailor-made box, the serious repercussions on Basque competences, and on the rest of other autonomy in general, would require the identification in specific articles of the text of constitutional rights and duties whose equality in their exercise or fulfilment is intended to guarantee, and, moreover, without their processing, to that end, individualised hearing to the Autonomous Communities. With regard to our amendment 14, which we maintain, concerning the persons responsible referred to in Article 63 of the draft, it should be noted that this amendment limits liability for very serious offences only to those committed as a criminal offence, while in serious and minor cases there is no reference to the degree of guilt; this, in our view, is an unjustified inconsistency between the two, an exemption from liability precisely for reckless conduct in the most serious conduct, the impossibility of application for the graduation of very serious offences according to the criterion relating to the author's intentionality and guilt referred to in Article 66 of the draft, which is also inconsistent in the view of the Council of State. In addition, the general criterion set out in the Law on Legal Regime, Law 40/2015, is broken when it states that administrative liability may be required as a criminal offence or guilt. With regard to our amendments 15 and 16, concerning respectively the limitation of the offences and sanctions contained in articles 64 and 68, we point out in them, ladies and gentlemen, that these articles are unnecessary, because they literally reproduce what is stated in the Law on Legal Regime, in its article 30, for the limitation of offences and sanctions; and when, moreover, article 60 of the draft law states that the exercise of the sanctioning power of this law shall be carried out in accordance with the principles and subject to the rules of the procedure laid down precisely in the Law on Legal Regime and the Law on Administrative Procedure. Finally - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we also maintain Amendment No 18, which refers to the maximum time limit for the establishment of internal information systems, contained in the second transitional provision of the draft, which is very limited, in our view; and refers to the obligation of a specified period of three months for the different persons obliged to comply with the requirements and guarantees required of them precisely in these internal information systems. When it is also inconsistent in the view of the Council of State with the ninth final provision of the draft, by which the Government has a maximum period of one year to approve the statute of the independent authority for the protection of the informant, this entails, during that time, regulatory dependence and that the rights and obligations for third parties cannot be exercised, since without that authority, they are not effective. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. The amendments I have put to you in any event will not, as I said at the beginning of my speech, condition our vote in favour of the whole project. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. With this act, we ended in Congress the processing of the so-called whistleblower law. We call it that, whistleblowers in English, because in Spanish it is super wrong to talk about the law of the soblons, of the chivatos, of the traitors; and since in Spain there is no such culture as the complainant, it seems that the one who informs the competent authority that some kind of offence has been committed is a traitor to the community or is a disloyal to the person to whom he denounces, however criminal the person to whom he is denouncing, that is why we use this Anglo-Saxon euphemism of whistleblowers. One of the objectives of this law is precisely to promote the culture of denunciation. Cases where one sees that a crime can actually be committed must be reported. There is a benefit to the community when it comes to informing the authority that crimes are being pursued; and what it is about is to protect this person who many times - and I have seen him first in my professional work - has important reprisals, has important attacks from all around him, who tries to protect himself by attacking the one who denounces corruption. In this sense, corruption is a scourge throughout Europe, and especially in our country, and it is, of course, an obstacle to the progress of societies; ultimately, it undermines free competition and public services. In Spain we can say, with this comfort that we can give ourselves, that we are in the middle of the table of the European Union, in position 14 of 27; and in the world, we are in position 34 of 180. But look how curious, how the Eurobarometer shows that corruption is, however, a concern for 89% of the Spaniards, and you, gentlemen of the government, lowering the penalties for the crime of embezzlement. This, of course, cries out to heaven. The Greco Group - the European Anti-Corruption Group of the Council of Europe - warned many years ago that Spain had very low penalties for crimes such as cohecho, for example, and we raised them. You now need to approve the general budgets of the State and, in the most typical crime of corruption, which is to embezzle everyone's money, lower your penalties. But they also do so with a tremendous delay. The Parliamentary Group of Citizens, in 2019, when the directive was published, immediately brought the transposition of the directive here and, however, we voted not to take it into consideration, because how are you going to vote yes to a Citizen thing, even if it is good, with this characteristic sectarianism of the government. You didn't do anything, minister, which is that we always catch the bull and in the end we have to deal with things fast and running. And it turns out that, in this case, as in others, the Commission of the European Union has opened us up to sanction for failing to meet the deadline for transposition of directives. We have 30 procedures open for non-compliance with the transposition of European directives. Then we find the consolation, which comes from the government when they say: that many other countries in Europe have also not transposed the directive and that they have also been given sanction procedures. What a comfort! We are just as bad as the other bad ones!, magnificent. Let's see if you put the batteries a little bit, really, in the Government of Spain to legislate well, which is now what is at issue in the Constitutional Court. Legislate well! Do not commit the legislative frauds that this Government is committing with the abuse of the real decrees laws, with the presentation of the initiatives through the proposals of the parliamentary groups, without the mandatory reports, without allowing us to appear on the Commission, applying in an arbitrary manner the urgency procedures, introducing amendments that are unrelated to the main text and that are injuring the rights of the opposition. That is why the Constitutional Court has stated in relation to these famous amendments that we are seeing this week in the media, 61 and 62, regarding another bill. But it's too late, it's too late! The purpose of this law, as I said in the first place, is to promote the culture of the complaint and, above all, to prevent reprisals against the complainant, seeking legal assistance from the State and the Autonomous Communities to those who report crimes, to those who cooperate with the realization of purposes of general interest; also financial and even psychological support; also, the confidentiality of the complaint, the guarantee of the complainant's compensation or the right to resolution. And I cannot avoid, of course, devoting my work in this Commission, our work in this Commission to people like Ana Garrido, to people like José Luis Peñas, who denounced the Gürtel case and made it possible for others to carry forward the accusation; or, for example, to the mole in the case of Palau de la Música; and many other cases of political corruption that affect practically all the parliamentary groups in this House, less mine. I remember in that trial the statements, for example, of Paco Correa, when he said that of: but, man, if everyone did! But how are you going to build in Spain if you don't bribe a councilman! But, man, issuing fake bills isn't that bad either! But how am I going to feed and work my workers' families if I don't bribe someone! These were the explanations that were heard in Spain relatively recently by the People's Party and also by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in their cases of corruption. I mean, it was like treating the one who was corrupt as if he were some sort of entrepreneur, it was: I corrupt public officials... of course, but it turns out that in the end we pagans were all, when they overwhelmed public assets, when administrative contracts were more expensive, when public services were of worse quality. I would like to end by thanking Mrs Tizón, Mrs Uxía, for her enormous work in the Commission and for the acceptance of many amendments by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, such as the elaboration of a national anti-corruption strategy, the possibility of giving recommendations from the central authority to the autonomous authorities, or the incorporation of a member of the advisory committee from the Court of Auditors. Other things have not been accepted, but, of course, we are very pleased with the work that has been done in this Commission. We thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group, without wishing to cause any harm to Mrs Tizón for receiving a praise from a political adversary. And, of course, we will be keeping an eye on the application of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u9	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. We are dealing with this transposition of a European directive, as has been pointed out, a transposition that comes almost to the end of the time frame within which it would have to be done and with some open dossiers. The truth is that if we refer to the parliamentary work done, we in PeCAT are satisfied that some fifteen amendments have been incorporated into the content of the opinion. Some of them are due, as you know, to trying to do the work rigorously, to work or to a calm parliamentary process. I believe that when laws are made at this rate, when laws are made with this interaction between parliamentary groups, it is much more likely that they will come out successfully, that they will come out much more worked out. There are some content that we are pleased to have incorporated, such as those relating to the minimum respect of the competition framework, those relating to the articulation of legal aid to informants or those relating to the system of protection against reprisals that may occur. Many of these contents, in the end, have been adjusted to articulate this law; and the transposition of the directive helps, as mentioned above, to encourage the culture of alerting, in short, to articulate a system of protection for informants. We keep alive some amendments that we believe could actually bring a little more content or a little more depth to the law. In this sense, the complainant's concept of good faith is one of the amendments - both ours and many parliamentary groups - that remain alive and that perhaps it would be worth considering their incorporation, or correspondence with the labour regulatory framework in the case of complainant workers. On the other hand, there are other issues relating to the deletion or otherwise of personal data in communications. But I believe that the most important are those amendments relating to the final provisions. Beyond the transposition of this directive, what entails is consequences in other rules and, therefore, those final provisions that regulate the Government to articulate these protection measures within six months, as well as especially - as I said - changes in other rules: with regard to the final provision, Amendment 166, which aims to amend the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Civil Procedure Act, the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act, the Basic Staff Regulations, the Workers' Statute. There is a whole set of rules arising from the transposition of this directive which should also be reflected in its contents in those rules which, in the end, will not be incorporated into our legal system today, and which are part of the day-to-day life of people who may be able to be covered by this new regulation. We therefore believe that this mandate to reform these laws is important. However - it has ended, Madam President - we will keep the amendments alive, asking, of course, for the vote for them, but we will vote in favour of the adoption of the opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u11	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law does not address a minor issue: the cooperation of citizens in respect of the right and ethical conduct is the foundation of the effectiveness of the same right and of social peace. In this sense, we want to say first of all that people who put at risk their jobs, their well-being and personal and family stability, also their good name before many who do not understand what is going on, risk warning of the existence of irregular practices and corruption so that the corresponding responsibilities are investigated and derived are not traitors, they are heroes. Lives that remain in suspense, stress, anxiety family problems, loneliness, depression, misunderstanding of many colleagues, friends, relatives, jobs that are lost, the personal and economic cost to the alerter is very high. These people are an example of civicism. They are exemplary citizens, but they are above all loyal to the organization of which they are denouncing irregular practices and corruption. The traitors are the corrupt. This, of course, except that you think that your organization, your union, your party, the city council you're an official of, the police you belong to, the company you're hired to, are mob organizations. We are, as Mr Bal said, in a cultural change. The alerter is the civic hero, he is loyal to his organization; and the corrupt - I mean it - and also the one who, with his silence and cowardice, conceals the corrupt, the one who turns away from sight, is the traitor. In the presentation and in the Commission, unfortunately, we have heard of these soblons or chivatos, cowardly words of a cuddled culture of those who are only able to understand their party, their administration, their company, the public service from their selfishness; that is, quite the opposite of what the classics have always called patriotism. From here I want to remind some of the people who have taken the step of giving a public battle, and to see that this does not go from ideologies, I will remind the alerters of the cases Gürtel and Malaya, José Luis Peñas and Ana Garrido, and also the former Army of Earth, Luis Gonzalo Segura, or the sergeant of the Civil Guard, Maria Teresa Serrano. Focusing on the law, this late and deficient law is a step towards complying with the incorporation of Directive 2019/1937, which has already come to collect the basic principles on alerters. We must say that we are not satisfied, we would have liked a more robust response to the unprotection of alerters. We have tabled 24 amendments which we believe will strengthen the rule precisely in relation to achieving the objective of protecting whistleblowers. We propose to strengthen procedures, to extend the area, for example, to the security forces and bodies, to improve the concepts by coming closer to the spirit of the directive and to preserve Catalonia's competences in this area. We have managed to deal with some of these amendments, but we believe that a future competitive conflict cannot be avoided because the competitive delimitation has not just become clear. Nor has sufficient progress been made in the protection measures, e.g. Article 38. We do not see that the measures provided for in the directive are properly adapted in the internal order, and we think the same about the requirements of the internal channel management body in Article 8. We appreciate the improvements in the final drafting of some articles, such as the conditions of protection, in relation to the independent authority for the protection of the informant, in the extension and setting of deadlines, as well as a major philosophical improvement in the purpose of the law. In any case, we will not be able to give our support to this law, our vote will be abstention. Although I would like to thank you from here for the work of Mrs Uxía Tizón for all her parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u13	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Corruption whistleblowers need legal protection against reprisals and obviously guarantee their anonymity. This regulation is at the service of the fight against corruption and in favour of good governance. These causes cannot be used centrally, but cooperatively, through a decentralized network. The contributions of the Republican Group have been in line to contribute to the good governance of public and private institutions, as defended by the Government of Catalonia with its commitment to democratic transformation and, at the same time, to preserve and enhance our self-government. We, the Government of the Generalitat, are determined to equip ourselves with our own warning law. Therefore, we can announce that we are already studying the text of this law to begin processing shortly. Our vote in favour must also be read as a vote of confidence, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE. With confidence in finding the same will for negotiation and understanding that we have shown in the Courts when it is time to discuss and approve this law in the Parliament of Catalonia - estem a l ́aguait - and with confidence also, ladies and gentlemen, in the exchange of information and loyal collaboration between the control bodies of both levels. In Spain, the complainants of corruption are - at least until today, which we have not yet approved - in a situation of absolute helplessness, being forced to become involuntary heroes because of the extraordinary personal and professional cost of their civic denunciation action. There are also no independent bodies or entities to combat fraud and corruption at the state level. The complainants, i.e. those who report inside the organization to an external authority on corrupt practices or disclose them to the public through the media, help prevent damage and detect threats or harm to the public interest, as otherwise those responsible could remain hidden and unpunished. Not obstinate, they often do not dare to reveal the information they have for fear of reprisals; reprisals that very recent examples of complainants show that it is the usual consequence of denouncing corrupt practices, being forced to confront them in absolute loneliness and institutional abandonment. Hence the enormous importance and urgency of providing effective protection to whistleblowers in order to safeguard the public interest for which they safeguard and protect with their sacrifice. Thank you very much to the Catalan anti-fraud agency Catalunya We also thank Access Info, Hay Droit, Xnet, Blueprint for Free Speech for promoting the initiative, which we have all received, which is supported by twenty-one organizations, which sent to the Government and also to the parliamentary groups a decalogue of improvements to the bill. [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] We've taken that very seriously. Simona, if you're listening to me, we've taken this very much into account, like other parliamentary groups, I understand. From here I thank Simona Levi. To improve this law and prevent the final legal text from harming the reporting persons themselves, the decalogue includes the need to eliminate biases regarding the motivation of the reporting person and the requirements to demonstrate who can be protected by the law. In addition, it requires greater concentration on definitions, such as retaliation, in order to limit the possibility of restrictive or counterproductive interpretations for the informant or the informant, and it also calls for the elimination of any temporary limitation, as the informants often suffer retaliation long after they have reported the facts. The decalogue of this set of entities and platforms adds to the allegations and comments to the normative text that these four organizations sent in the consultation opened by the Ministry of Justice in March in order to improve the regulation. The European Union set 17 January 2021 as the deadline for transposition into law of this European Directive, 2019/1937, on the protection of whistleblowers. The delay of the Executive has already meant a sanction for Spain. I have one minute and twenty-one seconds left, and I wanted to emphasise an amendment that presented Republican Left to open the melon, for dignity and because it is a daily reality that many and many do not want to see. Migrants and refugees reporting corruption crimes are being deported. We've got a lot of cases. We believe that they should be considered with special protection in relation to their situation of administrative irregularity. It is already legislated for women who suffer from gender-based violence, but it is also a very important case to change the law on foreigners and to make migrant persons aware of corruption. If a legal offence is reported, the irregular situation of the complainant is revealed, the administrative criminal record for violation of article 53.1 (a) of the Aliens Act is not opened, the administrative criminal record is suspended, the expulsion of the complainant is also suspended and the person may be resident. I am done, President, thanking again the Antifrau agency of Catalonia. We have amended the law and many amendments have been accepted and many have also been negotiated.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u14	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u15	We have left the others alive and we will vote yes to the amendments that Xnet passed to us yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u17	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. The truth is that when I met this bill that talks about fighting corruption, I was amazed. I could not believe that precisely the PSOE, the party most closely linked to corruption plots in Europe, could promote such an initiative. I understand that the Socialists had finally decided to take responsibility for the terrible plot of corruption in Andalusia or for the recent Qatargate or Morocco Gate, a corrupt plot that particularly affects your European parliamentary group, but with you there is no hope. [[Applauds]] Now, if, as they say, this rule will serve to protect whistleblowers from corruption, perhaps, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you still have a chance to do something for your country. Let's see: Can any of you help us recover almost 700 million that Andalusian socialism has stolen from all Spaniards? Can any of you tell us if there is any high socialist office that has been favoring Morocco's interests in exchange for money? Is there a brave man sitting in those seats that's cheering up? [[Applauds]] Doesn't look like it, does it? Anyway. I must admit that, as we said in the Commission, it has been hard for us to discover that, under the pretty wrap, candy was poisoned, because under those headlines who talk about protecting whistleblowers from corruption and fighting it, this project really hides a content that is highly toxic to democracy and coexistence. This bill says it transposes a European directive, but the truth is that it ends up perverting it, and it does so because it extends its object to any criminal offence and to any serious administrative offence and is not limited only to the list contained in the directive. Observe - observe, insist - how its name begins: Draft law regulating the protection of persons reporting administrative offences. Let them report administrative violations, see. This was the important thing, wasn't it, ladies and gentlemen? Wow. This bill simply makes it possible to open up general causes against defects. [[Applauds]] And, of course, to protect whistleblowers, even anonymous ones, within the framework of the liberticidal laws created by this government, such as sectarians called for democratic memory, equality, abortion or the next few for animal or trans protection, among others, we are dangerously approaching Spain from its Popular Front or Marxist Cuba, with the famous political whistleblowers, right, Mr Santiago? You know them well. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Can you imagine what can happen, for example, to a teacher who is heard by the political commissioner explaining to his students that human beings are biologically men or women? Can you imagine what can happen, for example, to a foundation that is observed by an infiltrator giving a talk about PSOE's criminal history during the 1930s? Of course they imagine it, of course, that's why they have expanded the object in this twisted way. It is clear that the serious legal uncertainty that this bill introduces puts at risk freedom of opinion and expression, something that no Democrat should tolerate. [[Applauds]] Therefore, while agreeing with the need to protect those who report serious crimes and offences related to corruption - corruption - the health of our democracy is incompatible with supporting this bill. Proof of VOX's commitment to the fight against corruption is the registration in February 2020 of an initiative for the comprehensive protection of whistleblowers of corruption, but, unlike this, our initiative delimits its scope exclusively to those infractions produced in the field of the public sector and from which it could result an injury to the public sector. We don't open the door to general causes. [[Applauds]] Reporters of corruption must be whistleblowers of corruption and not squatters or political commissioners used to harass and accuse dissidents. On the other hand, there are some other details of this bill that we do not like either. For example, we do not like the existence of this consultative commission that creates the rule, because it introduces more bureaucracy and therefore more political spending. Nor do we like the system you are proposing to appoint the independent authority, because we believe that its independence is not adequately guaranteed. That is why, in one of our amendments, we propose and propose that it be appointed by Congress and not by the Government, which is what you have brought here. We understand that the appointment by Congress makes it possible to broaden the scope of protection and thus to give greater security to its independence. Another element that we also do not like is that the bill usurps the role that the Local Regulators Act gives to provincial parliaments, especially - in this case it is what it is - the role of supporting small municipalities, because it is an exclusive and exclusive task of provincial parliaments. Finally, we do not think it is right that companies should be forced to appoint a manager to assume the role of head of the internal communication system. More flexibility must be given to companies to choose the person from their staff who is best qualified to perform this function, be it management or be employed, because the key is here, in which the necessary legal preventions are established so that when the person in charge is acting in the performance of his or her duties he or she cannot be disturbed, disturbed or sanctioned by his or her superiors. In short, we are not going to support this fraudulent transposition of a European directive because it has totalitarian tufos. [[Applauds]] Look, the best gift you can give all the Spaniards for Christmas is to ask forgiveness for so many years of corruption, to put an end to the blow to democracy and to return everything stolen. And, minister, let's see if for Reyes you fulfill your retributive commitments to judges, prosecutors and lawyers of justice. Do you know the expression pacta sunt servanda? Well, let's do it. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Postigo Quintana has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must begin this intervention by repeating what has unfortunately become customary during this parliamentary term in relation to the ways in which this government is legislated. Each initiative presented by the parliamentary groups that make up it is an opportunity for them, but an opportunity to include an amendment, a new law as payment to their investiture creditors, which would be the case with the elimination of the crime of sedition or the reduction of embezzlement. In this case it has been quite different, and it has nothing to do with the previous situations, but in agreement with the substance, by amendment in voice and without unanimity, for the first time in the history of our parliamentary practice they introduce nothing less than an organic law to develop a fundamental right in an ordinary law: the one contained in article 20 of the Constitution, nothing more and nothing less. With regard to this bill, which simply seemed easy, since it is a matter of transposing a European directive into our domestic law, this government complicates and makes everything worse. As far as its scope is concerned, the directive only concerns the complaint of criminal offences, leaving Member States the decision to extend the application of national provisions to other areas. As was to be expected, the Government extends it to its fullest extent, generating confusion when it does not interfere with the functions already performed by the inspection services of the Administration. A separate matter is its parliamentary technique to deal with, regardless of parliamentary legislative procedures, disregarding minorities, the warnings of the legal services of the House and, ultimately, the imposition of procedures, calls and times. From the reports of the advisory bodies to this law, the Government has hardly paid attention. The best proof is that almost 80% of my group's amendments contained in their literality unanswered recommendations from the Council of State; in other cases they were an exact translation of the directive itself in the light of the confusing wording that came to us from the Government. Of the seventy-eight amendments tabled by my group, the Government has accepted a purely technical one. My group, as it could not be otherwise, supports the establishment of a system for the protection of whistleblowers from cases of normative violations and the fight against corruption. I'd miss more! We approved it in the European Parliament and it was the PP government that approved the largest package of measures to combat corruption. [[Applauds]] The problem with this opinion is that it de facto creates a kind of public prosecutor's office, which establishes a legal obligation to provide any information or data in criminal proceedings, eye!, without judicial control of any kind. Under this new system, all complainants will have a legal obligation to provide any documentation or information that they have requested, obviating that this is not a criminal procedure and that the purpose of the law is to protect complainants from possible reprisals. It will require that all companies with more than fifty workers have that person, being a very disproportionate obligation for a large part of them, with the difficulties they all have at the moment. Is the government going to pay the labour costs of all of them, since it is an overtax? I would also like to point out that the liability of the informant is not clearly foreseen in the event that the reported information is not true and damages the reputation of individuals, agencies, institutions or companies. In addition, the presumption of veracity is given to the informant when he claims to have been the victim of reprisals, thereby inverting the burden of proof, something alien to our order. And how not to allude to the model of the proposed authority for the public sector: an independent administrative authority, functionally attached to Justice, with twenty-eight persons working - i.e. elected by the Government -, not defined in the law and which, knowing this Government, will be a new chiringuito in which to seek comfort from relatives, friends or friends to make party politics. We, on the other hand, propose an independent office similar to the Office of Conflicts, composed of officials, with greater control of Parliament and guaranteeing absolute impartiality and neutrality in the handling of complaints. Of course, this has been rejected. This is another opportunity for the sanchismo placement agency, as it said at the beginning. Already in the Democratic Quality Commission, a paper was created to strengthen the impartiality and independence of the independent authorities, resulting in what the text presented by the Socialist Group and More Country was to attack frontally the constitutionality and legitimacy of the independent administrative authorities, their independence and impartiality, trying to open the door to a politicization of their activities and an attempt to subject their ends to the partisan interests of the Government, ultimately political control with the intention of guiding their decisions by political criteria or guidelines of opportunity. They even dared to call them exceptions to the normal democratic functioning, and look where one is created here that will follow those postulates. It's just they don't cheat anymore, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE. How are we going to believe that the Government really wants to fight corruption and protect the informant, creating an independent authority that must be controlled and guided by political criteria and guidelines of opportunity? It's over now. No one believes that you intend to fight corruption when you are your highest exponents with your rebates of the crime of embezzlement, which in Roman paladin is stealing public money. You know clearly what the Spaniards can expect from you: to reward the sedious, that misappropriating public money comes out for free practically and that the justice that can stop your feet loses its independence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u20	Mr. Postigo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u21	I'm done, President. They lose all hope. The Spanish people, in which national sovereignty resides, will sooner or later tell you all very loudly, with the votes, that you are the worst government in all democracy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you all a very happy Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Postigo. Same. In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the standard of transposition of the European directive on the protection of corruption alerters with a good deal of consensus, which is to be welcomed. The culture of corruption, if it is enriched by what it is all about, is only possible in societies that allow impunity for the corrupt, and by allowing it, the institutions lose their authority to demand that citizens respect the norms of social coexistence and the laws and end democracy. The fight against corruption must therefore be a priority and therefore it is essential to protect those who report irregularities. For the first time in our country, a standard of protection for whistleblowers of corruption is established and tools are provided for them to report. If this rule had existed ten years ago, we would have avoided the calvary of the alarmist, Dona Ana Garrido, here today, whom we greet, for denouncing the Gürtel, or that alarmist, José Luis Peñas, who was sentenced to almost five years in prison in the same case, would have gone through that situation, while the maximum condemned, the treasurer of the PP, is already on the street, having served just six years in prison. We would also have allowed the alerter, Javier Ramos, a candidate for rector of the Rey Juan Carlos University, to be served when he denounced how the former rector and now president of the Constitutional Court, Pedro GonzálezTrevijano, ordered him to offer money or office to a professor to withdraw a lawsuit. We would have avoided the scandals about the master's courses at the Rey Juan Carlos University, when Mr. GonzálezTrevijano was rector, with Cristina Cifuentes and Pablo Casado as protagonists. It would have been avoided during the period of that Rectory that several of the relatives of González-Trevijano, such as his wife or sister-in-law, were recruited as staff of the university or its foundation. It would also have been avoided that, during that period, Rey Juan Carlos University would have become a placement agency for relatives of relevant politicians of the People's Party, such as Mrs Cifuentes' sister, Mr Ruiz-Gallardón's cousin or Francisco Garrido's sister-in-law. [[Applauds]] It would also have been ensured that when GonzálezTrevijano was investigated in 2014 for illegal recruitment during his stage as rector, another corruption alerter, Professor Salvador Perelló, who denounced GonzálezTrevijano - literally - for having woven a tupid customer plot and sheltered illegal recruitment of teachers. If this law had been passed years ago, the alerter, David Ríos, former vice-rector of Rey Juan Carlos University, would have been served when he denounced GonzálezTrevijano for allegedly being 470,000 euros without justification in protocol. And perhaps we would have avoided the deterioration of important constitutional institutions, which have come to be presided over by more than inadequate people. Our system cannot allow persons linked to allegations of corruption to occupy important State institutions. The deterioration of constitutional institutions leads to situations of degradation of democracy as extreme as those we are experiencing these days. It is an exceptional and more than legally questionable situation that, for example, the highest body of constitutional guarantees, the Constitutional Court, agrees to suspend parliamentary proceedings and prohibits the seat of national sovereignty from carrying out its legislative work. [[Rumors]] But what breaks the rules of the rule of law and democracy is that this exceptional suspension of the activity of the seat of national sovereignty is carried out without any legal basis, just using a paragraph that only quotes, which does not substantiate, the application of a norm. [[shows a document]] It also lacks the appearance of legality that the written statement of the legal services of the Spanish Senate, which requests the Constitutional Court to resume its legislative activity, has been denied with a sentence, with a sentence and without citing a single legal rule, breaking the most basic rules of the rule of law. [[Rumors]] In any case, thanks to these amendments that have been tabled by the United Nations We can in the legislative process, this law will collect important progress, such as that the forces and security forces can also be protected to denounce allegations of corruption. [[Rumors]] We have also seen a significant increase in the number of people who can access free legal aid to deal with these corruption cases and be able to report them. Legal aid will also be guaranteed not only in criminal proceedings, but also in cross-border civil proceedings. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u24	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Santiago. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u25	It is included - very important - that serious criminal or administrative offences involving breach of social security can also be reported and that the person who does them is given adequate protection, because no reprisals are possible and what is at stake is to ensure that there is no reprisals against those who report corruption. I would like to end by offering this law to the people already mentioned, who have had the courage to denounce these cases of corruption, and to other people, in particular the army's extenent, Luis Gonzalo Segura, who denounced multiple frauds, gathered documentation on bills and misadjustments in accounting and ended up being expelled from the army, and to Mrs. Azahara Peralta, former director of the Aquamed state company, who denounced irregularities in economic compensation agreed in favour of companies that appeared in the papers of Bárcenas and who also paid with their employment. We appreciate the work of all the parliamentary groups and we welcome the fact that we have one more rule to pursue corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Tizón Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u27	Thank you, President. I have had to face harassment, threats and even dismissal for refusing to do certain illegal practices. It hasn't been an easy journey. My own companions told me: this is normal, if you don't do it, another will do it; don't get in trouble. Ballesteros case, in the Aquamed case. I wanted to make things right. As mayor I wanted my people to stop being the courtship of a few, where everything is done anyway. After denouncing the facts, two people approached the mountain and beat me brutally that generated a clot in my brain and several days of hospitalization; Lobato case, after denouncing his party's bad practices. Two cases, two examples that could be counted by hundreds in the public, private and political spheres. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pride to be able to present an outstanding subject in this Chamber today, an innovative and necessary law. It is a law that promises to change the rules of the game with a unique and unknown nature so far, because when we talk about corruption and breaches of the legal order we refer to its causes and remedies, but not the conditions and circumstances of its whistleblowers. This law therefore aims to combat these irregular situations in both the public and private sectors, but also to ensure transparency. It's logical that the People's Party doesn't like it. How are you gonna like it? How will you like it when your government in 2017 did not take into account the recommendations of Transparency International? How will the first party condemned for corruption in democracy like you? How are you guys gonna like it, you panic about pulling out of the blanket? [[Applauds]] VOX doesn't like it either, but nothing new in the sun. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, so far the protection of whistleblowers has been orphaned; whistleblowers who, despite their social contribution, have suffered and suffered from work persecution, damage to their reputation and health problems. In recent years more than 36% of those who made public irregularities reported having suffered some form of reprisal. This text seeks to create a climate of trust with the Administration to make life easier for the citizen who fulfils his ethical and social duties. It ends with the stigma of the chivato that becomes an informant. Why? Because small information in time can prevent major disasters. It is a rule that will scrupulously and guarantee us to improve as a country in the rankings that draw up international organizations such as FATF, Greek or Transparency International. Cicero already said in Roman times that honesty is always worthy of praise, even though it does not report utility or reward or profit. This law, ladies and gentlemen, protects the honest one who will undoubtedly be fundamental to building a better country. That is why I would like to thank Mr Bal and also the other parties that have cooperated because with dialogue we can achieve great things and, of course, my colleagues: Paco, Gema and my dear Chus, because without them this law could not have been possible. The fight against corruption is the hallmark of this Executive, it is embodied in the objectives of the Fourth Open Government Plan and this law responds to that commitment. Any person connected with the public or private sector may bring suspicious transactions, subsidies or awards to the attention of the independent protection authority and be granted real and effective protection in the face of any personal retaliation or against his or her environment. It is an amparo, ladies and gentlemen, guarded by a sanctioning regime that will act in case of actions or omissions that limit the rights and guarantees introduced in this law, hindering, preventing or slowing down the information. The existing channels of complaint are maintained and are in addition to all the anti-fraud measures developed during this parliamentary term. This rule not only represents the fight against fraud and violations of Spanish and European Union law. It also represents the struggle for democratic regeneration and hygiene in institutions, those very institutions to which many of you, ladies and gentlemen of the right and right, have lost your respect because you believe you own them, because you block them and want to manage them at your will. [[applause]] Let me tell you that this is also a form of corruption, and we cannot consent to it or normalize it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, neither citizenship nor public authorities should remain impassable in the face of corruption, injustice or irregular acts. We must not remain impassable in the face of the violation of the basic principles of a rule of law, and this law marks the beginning of a path. As Sabina said in her songs, that being brave doesn't come out so expensive, that being a coward isn't worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tizón. The Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. He took the floor very briefly to thank all parliamentary groups for the dialogue and the high level of consensus they have had in a very important text on preventing and combating corruption. We are taking one more step today in our country, and when it is finally approved in the High Chamber, in the Senate, in the area of anti-corruption. Indeed, fitting a figure as new as the informer of normative violations in our system and very well unravelling the red line of the denunciation of corruption in the area of the courts - in the criminal field - has been very complicated, but I would like to congratulate the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups for their work, their committed work and their committed vocation in this area. In particular, I would like to thank Mrs Tizón, spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for her good explanations and clarifications in the area of debate. So let's break the first link in that chain of corruption, and I think it's something very important. Many European Union countries have not yet been able to tackle the fit of this figure precisely, as I say, also because of its complexity. Finally, I wanted to thank, of course, the protagonists of this whole story, those people who with their courage dared at some point to report and denounce and did not find in our system an adequate response to this problem by the institutions. So, thank you very much to all of them for their cooperation, because they have really been the germ, the beginning of today's adoption of this opinion. Finally, I would like to congratulate all your ladies and gentlemen on the holidays and wish them a Merry Christmas on behalf of the entire team of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u30	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u31	We continue with the opinion on the draft law on sustainable fisheries and fisheries research. I should like to inform you that, once this debate is over, the amendments to the six Commission opinions will be voted on. In order to defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, I have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the PRC is a party that has always been attached to the fisheries sector. It has demonstrated this over the years, especially by granting aid to renew the fleet and making great investments in port infrastructures, both land - loons, ice factories or cranes - as well as marines - new ports, dams, dredging, etc., and we have done so because we are attached to the land, to the people. The sea is an indispensable part of idiosyncrasy, and not just for economic reasons. [[The Lord]] Knowing the content of this law, we contacted the sector and those responsible for the Council of the Government of Cantabria. The first reading was very negative and, therefore, we tabled fifteen amendments seeking to alleviate the negative effects that we denounce in the Commission itself, in which, by the way, many representatives of the sector, most of them, expressed a very critical opinion on the draft law. Only one of our amendments has been successful, concerning recreational fishing in inland waters regulated in autonomous management. The others have been rejected, including those that directly affect the competence of the autonomous community, such as the extraction of algae or authorizations for works, installations and activities in inland waters, or that of the supposedly invasive subspecies, since they put them all in the same bag. There are alloctone species that are beneficial and do not harm native flora, such as the Japanese clam, which has not moved to the site. It is as if we wanted to eliminate the palm trees of northern Spain because they are not indigenous. They have also vetoed an amendment to benefit the staff of the lounges. I hope you'll rectify it in another rule. Nor is the refusal to extend the deadline for the closure of fisheries within 24 hours very well understood, but the most worrying is the direct economic impact which is being put into great legal uncertainty. Summary of the most important aspects: The government increases from 3% to 5% - and with the possibility of reaching 10% - the deduction of fishing opportunities, i.e. the reserve allocated by the government when making the allocations. Since this is a cake to be distributed, fishermen will never be able to be sure of their part. The new distribution criteria are so open that they cause great insecurity or, which is the same, great mistrust. What the sector wants is for the current minimums to be maintained and for the new distributions not to affect them. That affect new species or increases in quotas yes, but not those that compromise the economic design of companies. The automatic loss of unused quota rights without any compensation is also very negative. There are times when these fishing opportunities are transferred to the viability of companies. Many direct fishing to some species and use the quotas of others that are not so viable to them according to the temporary circumstances, but achieve greater profitability.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u33	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u34	There is already the so-called annual optimisation mechanism, which is sufficient. In conclusion, with the text of the opinion that comes to us, we cannot pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that, just as you get up here and are critical when you play, it is also up to you to recognize when things are going well. This fishing law, despite the fact that the initial text was not the ideal - the end, either -, it is true that it has been carried with its times, with its debate, with its listening to the experts, with its negotiating capacity and with all this that, if it were done in all the laws, we would not be in trouble with the ones we are with. This is not a veiled criticism of the PSOE, because in this all the groups that have ruled - PP and PSOE - have given ugly examples of bad regulation, without debate, through amendments, this is so fashionable now. They're all guilty. What should be an exception becomes the norm, and yet what should be the norm is an exception. This law has been an exception because there has been work and dialogue. I am particularly proud that, through the dialogue with the Socialist spokesman, we have managed to convert a law that did not recognise the specific nature of the Canary Islands - that recognition that we do have in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was not originally envisaged - and was not useful for the Canary Islands fishing sector in a law that does. Why? Because it is specifically recognized that regulations have to be adapted to our special status as an ultraperipheral region. Our status, the Canary Islands, is recognized and another very important thing is also recognized, listening to the fisheries sector. This is something that we have a lot of groups and we have a lot of pre-sector consultation amendments and they have all been accepted. I appreciate this, but not only me, but also the sector, which, let us not forget, is for whom we are legislating. I am also proud to have managed to negotiate the weak definition of recreational fishing. It is not ideal, I repeat, but we are getting a little closer to defining that sector which, unfortunately, is not going to be regulated in this law, but is going to be regulated in a later law, but we have taken steps forward. It is true that I have suffered a little bit from the government's beaks on two amendments which we believe are basic. Why does the government veto hurt me? Because by vetoing amendments you veto the debate, you veto the possibility of reaching agreements,and you do not even talk about the importance of those amendments. As I have said, the recreational sector is delegated to a later rule, so it seems unfair to us that in this rule - in which they will not be regulated or the extent of their activity is recognized - they would be charged a fee. A fee that will affect that lord of La Restinga who goes out with his fishing canyon and who fishes to eat in his house and to dine in his house. However, then, when you have to order the sector, do not order. We thought it was unfair. This amendment is vetoed when it is a new creation rate, which has no impact on budgets, and if you are going to look at the collection and does not reach 400,000 euros. The debate and the possibility of reaching agreements are being vetoed. Of course, I do not want to forget the oceanographic vessel with permanent seat in the Canary Islands, which has also denied us the opportunity to discuss it and to start agreements. In short, we are very proud of the work that canarian MPs have done to turn a fishing law into a very little more useful law for canarian fishing.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u37	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u38	We will keep some amendments - and I will finish this - that what they say is that fisheries federations are also heard, especially when we talk about small-scale fishing or recreational fishing, which they need to be heard when it comes to basic issues for their work. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u39	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Egun on. Good morning, everyone. I was born in a fishing and seafaring village, a village with a long tradition, which has lived looking at the sea throughout its life. I have seen the splendid past of the sea, of fishing, of activity, with a port full of boats. I have seen the present work and look with sadness at an uncertain future. I share people with the National Narrative Award, Kirmen Uribe, who wrote so much about the sea. There are beautiful landscapes in his novel Bilbao New York Bilbao when he talks about the peripetics of his father, sailor, in Rockall, there north of Scotland, west of the Hebrides, an inhospitable place where the Basques have gone fishing for our future. Surely any place sailor and fisherman has also had their stories, each one has his own. That is why it seems to me that in our case the fisheries issue is very much within our heart. He is the son of a man of the sea, I am the son of a man of port, but the affective world we have is that of the sea and fishing. We cannot distinguish the sea from fishing and we cannot make a nostalgic element of the sea as something beautiful without knowing how hard fishing is. Fishing, as an economic activity that is, let us not forget - it has given food and it is to give food to people - has to be a regulated activity. There is no doubt about that and, of course, this law has come to be adapted to the new reality both in Europe and in the area in which we are moving. It is true that we are on the eve of the new common fisheries policy, but the Government has brought us a law with the aim of marking the lines of sustainable fisheries. And I wonder: does fishing have to be sustainable? There is no doubt that sustainability cannot obviate its three aspects: it must be ecologically or environmentally sustainable, but it must not cease to be sustainable either economically or socially; that is, there must be sustainability in the three areas, but it is sometimes very complicated to combine the three interests. That is why we have had problems with the original wording of this law. There have been long and hard negotiations to be able to reach an agreement; an agreement in which, from our perspective, the first thing we put on the table were the interests of the sector for the future, because perhaps there will be more and more fish with a sustainability approach, and that is fine, so it must be, we cannot elude the sea, we must keep it alive, but we must also do so that there are fishermen, because if not, the fishing activity will disappear, and what is worse, there will continue to be fish and fish in the fisheries, but go to know where they have come from and how they have been fished. This law must apply to all that. Let us not forget that we have to make a law for those who are engaged in this, for the fisheries sector. Of course, we care that he has fished, but we believe that the sector is the protagonist and that it is the one that must maintain the guarantee of his future. Therefore, the law cannot be a law against fishermen, it must be a law for fishermen. We have reached agreements, although it has cost us. The original law, the text that the Government had brought, had a perspective that we have managed to modify in four respects and we are pleased with that. The negotiations are never to win ten to zero, with a tie to five is fine. We have amended the fourth additional provision, which now states that the validity of previous allocations will not be affected by the entry into force of this law, and I believe that this is a great achievement. It is a guarantee, tranquillity and safety for fishermen who are working with the prospect of making investments or expanding their fleet. They cannot be at the dawn of what the Government can decide at any given time on what their distributions will be. I also believe that lowering the state reserve from 10 % to 5 %, and in an exceptional case to 10 % - we asked for 3 %, we think that is enough - is also a good agreement. On the competence of the autonomous communities some believe that they are more than the Government believes they are, but in any case we have managed - others have already said - to consult not only the sector, but also the autonomous communities with competence in fisheries, when decisions are to be taken. We always believe that the State enters more than it should, but that is what is in the law. Finally, I believe that research centres should be valued. Let us not forget that this is a law of fisheries sustainability, but also of fisheries research and in Euskadi we have one of the most powerful research centers that exist, not only at state level, but at European level, which is AZTI. I believe that research centres need to be put into practice so that they can assume - and this is the case in the law, because they are already taking on de facto powers - research and representation in the world's most important fisheries research bodies. I think that was a recognition that had to appear, and we're glad it did. Finally, fortunately, the law contemplates the reducing rates of neskatillas, redfish and packers; people who have worked in the world directly related to fishing in an unjust and forgotten way for so many years. It is a recognition by everyone of the work of these women because from this law will be recognized those reducing rates for a more than deserved retirement in the future. This law is not our law, obviously. It modifies things that need not be changed and will soon have to come new changes on the part of Europe, and we will see. In any case, and following the last agreements we have reached, we will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u41	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an important law. It has been the first fishing law I have been able to handle as a spokesperson for agriculture, livestock and fishing here in Congress. I have to say, I've learned a lot. I think the sector needed a law and the starting text was insufficient. Since the beginning of the processing of this law, with the appearances we had in the Commission, we realized that it was a basic text that had to be improved and so we began to work, as we always do, to try to improve it. We believe that the fisheries sector, by its nature, is essential as a support for a balanced diet, typical of the Mediterranean diet, and for a strong, sustainable and viable primary sector. It gives employment, fixed population and provides a seal of quality to our product, to the product that our fishermen bring us and that allows us to enjoy all the Spaniards. There are almost nine thousand operational vessels in the General Register of the Spanish Fishing Fleet, with a production of around one million tons. Spain is one of the most important fishing countries in the European Union. On the other hand, I would also like to stress that Spanish waters are very rich in terms of marine biodiversity. This makes Spain, according to FAO, the country of the world where the most food of marine origin consumes its inhabitants, but it also forces us to always seek the balance between this abundance and the indispensable sustainability of fishing activity, always in relation to these natural resources. It is vital to support the sector at times as delicate as those it is going through, especially since the invasion of Ukraine and the sharp escalation of its costs. It is support that we have sought from the Government since March, through various written questions. Precisely because of this specific nature of the primary sector, we call on the Executive to make further efforts to promote discontinuous fixed recruitment in this sector, also addressing questions to the Government. We welcome the agreement reached in Brussels on quotas, but it is necessary to better adjust it to the needs of caladeros in territories such as Andalusia, where with the strong cuts in quotas for Mediterranean trawling, Atlantic cicadas or red shrimp rains on wet. If the Government's calculations of quotas or sustainability factors for fisheries are so different from reality, we run the risk of being left at the mercy of the competition and export of fisheries from third countries. In this regard, it is important that the final decision on the review of the veto on bottom fishing no longer be postponed. That is why our parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments which are grouped around three axes: viability, sustainability and renewal. Thus, we have advocated greater participation of the sector in the decisions that determine our country's fisheries policy, as well as better scientific and technical advice and management closer to the squire in question. Citizens have also defended a greater weight of non-industrial fishing in this bill, such as recreational, underwater and, in particular, artisanal fishing. This favours more selective fishing techniques with less effect on the environment, which are the ones that contribute most to the dynamism of coastal societies and those with greater cultural weight. In addition, it should be noted that underwater fishing is also a sport in which the Spanish selection is the most laureate of all disciplines. Our group also advocates limiting the possibility of temporary transmission of fishing opportunities, for the benefit of small-scale and artisanal fishing, always and in advance, with the aim of balancing the extra benefits obtained by large shipowners with the distribution and penetration of wealth and employment in the territories that always involve these minor arts. We have tabled a number of amendments and have been able to negotiate with the Socialist Party a number of amendments, and we have signed a number of compromise amendments with which we are very happy, although we have not been able to negotiate with the Socialist Party the allocation of fishing opportunities. We do believe - we add an amendment in this regard - that historically developed fishing activity always refers to historical figures and this law does not help that generational relief that we believe could exist. That is why the fishing allocation would have to have other criteria. Still, we will continue to work in the Senate to bring forward some more compromise amendments. Citizens will support this bill. We believe this is a first step, and we will continue to work in the Senate. I wanted to thank the Socialist Party rapporteurs, especially Maria Luisa, who has been the person who treated me most directly, for the good treatment. I really hope that in the Senate we can get some more transactional. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u43	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mrs. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. We are faced with a law that regulates a very important sector in Galicia, fundamental in our economy, a sector that has also been permanently threatened in recent decades: it has seen its capacity reduced, more recently with the limitation of fishing in different areas of the Atlantic to the basic arts; by the sharing of the quota, for example in the deer, even by the electric oligopoly, with projects of marine wind that affect important caladeros of our coast. In our view, this law is unsatisfactory. We recognise some progress, such as the introduction of socio-economic criteria for new allocations, although the initial reserve of 10% is generally reduced to 5%. We have tabled fifty-six amendments, three of which have been accepted and incorporated, and they are important: for example, the drawing up of a catalogue of occupational diseases in sectors such as shellfish, scuba diving, perceivables, etc.; ensuring the voting of seafarers on board, or encouraging collective agreements establishing decent working conditions. However, as I said, we find it unsatisfactory because for us there are key issues that have remained out: it is not logical that this law starts from the principle of relative stability, because we must review that principle which limits our fishing capacity, Galicia's declaration as a highly dependent area of fisheries and, consequently, direct representation before the European Union and negotiating capacity, because it affects us very directly; respect for Galicia's fishing powers and the defence of self-government, that is, that you call co-governance, but that at the time of truth it does not take place; the prohibition of marine wind on our continental shelf, as well as of underwater mining; favouring, for example, fishing research and the impulse to the complex sea-industry and its enormous potential, including, for example, in the field of research, the transfer of IEO centres. But all the amendments relating to the increase in reducing coefficients or their application, for example, to Galician coastguards, were also vetoed. Anyway, there are a lot of very important things that were left out. That is why we say that, with some progress, it is unsatisfactory, and we are therefore going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u45	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u46	Thank you, President. Today the parliamentary process of the Congress of the Sustainable Fisheries Bill is complete. PeCAT tabled 15 amendments with the aim of improving the initial text. We have negotiated five of them and today the remaining ten amendments will be voted on, for which we call for the support of the groups. For us, it was important to reverse the centralizing trend of the bill, with the delegations being made to the autonomous communities and the sector itself being very sporadic. We also express our concern about the fourth additional provision, on the allocation of fishing opportunities prior to the entry into force of this law, because the wording was ambiguous, leaving open the possibility that the allocations already made to date could be modified and generating legal uncertainty for companies. We welcome the fact that, with the current wording of the text, with the signed transactional, the current quotas are maintained and give the security that the sector deserves. Of the amendments to be voted on, I would like to highlight the 297, 298 and 299, which refer to Article 36, on the closure of fisheries. We understand that it is important to include a reference to compliance with the landing obligation and to extend the period from 24 hours to 48 hours. With regard to Article 40, on reservations to fishing opportunities, our amendment 301 calls for the deletion of subparagraph (d) on allowing the entry into a fishery of vessels which do not meet the historical activity requirements required by it, where such a circumstance results from reductions in fishing opportunities allocated to the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u47	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u48	Thank you, President. I'll map out the picture for the last 25 years. Initially, the European Union boosted overcapacity with the aim of muscle a model of industrial fishing very focused, above all, on the Atlantic area. It was then that the fisherman himself perceived that it was a good time and that, therefore, although the ecological and scientific organizations already warned that with the situation of the caladeros it was not advisable to increase the fleet, what they did was greatly increase the resources and infrastructure for the fleet. Ten years later, Brussels revised its policy and acknowledged that it had been wrong. Since then, the European Union has made it very clear that, first and foremost, the sustainability of the sector must be ensured. Our group believes that we should go further and give a systemic approach to fisheries management for the conservation, on the one hand, of ecosystems and, on the other, of fisheries resources. We need to talk about marine biological resources, not just fisheries. In this respect, fisheries must be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable, as has been said here. We believe that this can only be guaranteed with very close and decentralized management models; it is the only way to guarantee, really, the sustainability of a model and an activity. In the Mediterranean and, in particular, in Catalonia, fishing is a socio-ecological sector. We have ecosystems that have been exploited for over two thousand years and are therefore already defined from a certain level of human impact. And, next to it, we have a social structure - this is important - cultural and identity, even composed of slices and brotherhoods, very well articulated in the territory and, at the same time, very fragile. It is therefore a real social ecosystem; it is not just a fishing ecosystem, but a social ecosystem. For us, that's fundamental. The fleet is a coastal fleet, to which most of the drag, fence and certain longlines belong. [[Applauds]] There are very few industrialists and, in fact, Catalonia is very representative of the typical Mediterranean fleet. Our model, in fact, defends to the extreme co-management as a model of guarantee of sustainability, from the proximity to the sector and to the territory. In this respect, we have tabled the bulk of our amendments. Catalonia has been a pioneer and is the only European administration that has created specific legislation and legal framework for fisheries co-management, i.e. to decentralise decision-making - for us, this is fundamental - not only territorially: each fishery is governed by a co-management committee consisting, on the one hand, of representatives of the administration, and, on the other hand, of the fisheries sector, of local NGOs and, on the other hand, of scientists. It is therefore a participatory management model, a management model. Decisions are made among these four actors. It was regulated by a decree of 2018 and today we are a world-renowned example, both by the FAO and by the European Union. We were now only missing the recognition of the Spanish State, precisely by including this model in the law itself. Although it has not been intended to recognise the binding and decisive nature of this model, we have managed to recognise the co-management model as a further model of fisheries management in the Spanish State. In Catalonia, it is not only a binding model, it is the main decision-making model. This model is based on another element that is fundamental to us, as it forms one of the four legs of the co-management committee, which is fisheries research. Specifically, the recognition of IcatMor as a reference research centre is a political priority for us right now. The IcatMor is part of a political project in Catalonia and involves developing the skills transferred thirty-five years ago. Obviously, we could have decided to create the IcatMor without the CSIC, but considering that Barcelona already had the best oceanographic center in the Mediterranean we decided this mixed formula, a body of cooperation in accordance with Catalan law. In this respect, another package of amendments has been aimed precisely at strengthening this recognition. Finally, it has been possible to add the recognition of the Oceanographic Institute as a reference for research in the State, together with other research centres in the State and autonomous areas designated for this subject. Therefore, it is not simply limited to the Oceanographic Institute, but it really expands much further. The culture of working together scientists and the sector, when in other places they represent often antagonistic areas, has been established in Catalonia for years. In conclusion, we insist that the co-management model works because decision-making is done from where it belongs, from proximity and decentralization. In this sense, we believed that in this law the figure of the management of the unique squid of the Mediterranean was to be overcome, in an attempt to bring management closer to the territorial reality and the needs of the fisheries, but it has not been so. We believe that today it makes no scientific or technical sense to continue to maintain a single Mediterranean subsoil for management purposes, which includes from the Alboran Sea to the Gulf of León. For our group, it is vital that management can be done by GSA, which are the management units established by the FAO General Commission for Mediterranean Fisheries and recognised by the European Union. They are much more concrete fishing units, which really respond to the needs of the fisheries. In any case - it has already ended - although we believe that this law could have been much more ambitious and although we see dangerous the reduction of some environmental criteria and the irrelevant role that scientific research acquires, we will vote in favour. It is not our law, but we have managed to strengthen and recognize the Catalan model, which for us is a model that really works. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u50	Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a fundamental norm for our fisheries sector, such as the sustainable fisheries law, which has as its main objectives to strengthen the conservation of fisheries resources, to promote the generation of wealth and employment and to integrate - this is very important - scientific knowledge as a conditional element of our legislative practice and, above all, of public fisheries policies. It is a law in which we have worked all the groups with intensity and which our group has done so by understanding, in all its dimension, the crucial importance of the balance between the health of our ecosystems and the activity of our fisheries sector, which is constituted as a fundamental vertebrate element of the economic activity of our maritime territories and of our coastal towns and villages. Let us remember that 95% of our fleet working in the squid within the Spanish state belongs to the segment of the minor arts and concentrates the largest number of ships -6895-. It is a fleet that is characterized, basically, by the use of artisanal practices, that work near its base ports on our coasts and that brings to our long quality products, consumed daily in our homes and also in the hospitality. In short, it is a sector that with work and effort - as I say with pride, obviously - makes a key contribution to the coverage of the basic needs of the population, being a fundamental pillar of our food sovereignty... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u51	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Wait a minute. Excuse me. [[Pause]] Any time. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u52	He said that the fishing sector has proved key, not only to guarantee our food sovereignty, but our food, precisely at a time as hard as that of the pandemic, where these workers proved to be committed to the health and food of our citizens. Protecting our local fishing has been the healthy obsession of my parliamentary group throughout this process. We have advocated a fair allocation of quotas, which is not only a fair claim, but the most efficient and solvent way out for the maintenance of economic activity and for the survival of maritime and fisheries ecosystems. In this context, we saw the need to implement fair and balanced allocation mechanisms in fishing opportunities, with the aim of ending their speculative use and the privatization trend that had been developing underground in recent decades in the sector. To this end, it was necessary to establish management systems that would allow a fairer, more efficient and more flexible use of fishing quotas, and we can say that this is finally covered by this rule. Firstly, the criteria for allocating fishing opportunities will take into account those which have the least impact on resources and those which contribute most to the local economy, which is, of course, the way forward in the sector. Secondly, new mechanisms are proposed to facilitate the transmission of fishing opportunities between vessels, with the dual aim of promoting business planning and optimising the use of quotas and working days allocated to the Spanish State. And - very important - when the quotas allocated to a ship have not been used for a certain period of time, finally the public administrations will be able to redistribute them and, ultimately, do something fundamental, and it is that the fishing quotas are really for those who work them and for those who need to fish them. This law also places scientific knowledge at the centre of public proceedings, a condition of possibility for effective, sensible and viable fisheries management, both for the future of fishing activity and for ecosystems. This requires and provides sufficient resources, rigour in research practices and the involvement of the various actors concerned, including the entire value chain, to public administrations and, of course, to consumers themselves. On the other hand, on the initiative of different areas of the sector, but I also want to highlight what the Ministry of Labour has done in this area, this law proposes important advances in the field of labour and social justice for those workers and, in particular, women workers who have been suffering from very difficult working conditions. We are talking about significant reduction coefficients, a historical demand, for workers, such as footmackers, redheads, neskatillas and packers. There is still a way to go in this direction, but I think we must welcome the fact that this just demand from all these workers is finally being met. With regard to the adoption of measures for the proper conservation of fishery resources, the limitation of the volume of catches, the regulation of fishing effort, the gear used, the weight and size of species or the establishment of quotas, shall always be carried out in cooperation with the sector itself. In this way, the links between scientific knowledge, conservation and regulation of one's own economic activity are strengthened, which represents a substantial improvement in what has to do with the dynamics of the legislative sphere with this sector, not as we had at other times. However, we must also regret that, despite the progress made during the processing process, some of the improvement proposals that appeared in the draft law in the Council of Ministers have worsened or reversed. We are talking here about matters such as the maintenance in part of the market of fishing opportunities, which, in our view, means the exemption of covert privatisation practices from what is a public resource such as fishing, a captive market which we consider to interfere negatively with both the new incorporations in the sector and the cost overruns for those workers, for those fishermen, who have to buy quotas in order to be able to continue their activity. We repeat it again: fishing for those who work it. We also miss a cross-cutting ecosystem approach throughout the law, and we believe that some of the steps taken in the area of local democratization and territorialisation of fisheries management have been lukewarm. Finally, it seems to us that we should have gone a little further in eliminating the unfair historical criteria in the allocation of fishing opportunities policies, which are a source of imbalances in the sector and also territorial. In short, and as a conclusion, it is a law that brings significant progress and significantly improves existing legislation. In any case, in our parliamentary group we are going to devote ourselves to continuing to work with the industry and environmental organisations, which have made this rule better, but obviously there is a lot of work ahead. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u53	Thank you. Mr Zambrano García-Raez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u54	With venial, Mr. President. I want to start by talking, first, about ways. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group obtained a majority in the last elections and is the largest group, with one hundred and twenty Members. That majority got it with deceit and false promises, but it got it, and the exercise of that majority is a responsibility. However, since the beginning of the parliamentary term, from minute one, the attitude towards the VOX Group has been to systematically reject our initiatives and amendments, even if they were of obvious and palmary common sense, and in the processing of this law it has been no different. That attitude only denotes pride in the exercise of that majority, an absolute lack of humility, which then brings the problems that it brings and that we have all been able to verify. Listening and reasoning is not bad, it not only harms the legislative process itself, the law itself, but binds them to sectarianism. The first thing the Socialist Group should be interested in is, therefore, a minimum of humility in the exercise of that responsibility. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with the Fisheries Act, the first thing we must consider is that fisheries resources are public resources and therefore belong to all Spaniards, without distinction of regions or any other similar consideration. Its regulation and management must therefore respond to the national interest and equality of all Spaniards. The law and its development must respond to a national fisheries strategy and policy, in which Spain's interests prevail over partisan, regionalist interests or the interests of specific business sectors. The autonomous system involves a waste of energy and resources: seventeen autonomous communities producing a multitude of disparate regulations and seventeen administrations demanding competences, taxes and maintaining an unusual political class, with their corresponding clientele and servitudes; this is joined by the perverse claim of regionalist privileges. This reality translates into inequalities between Spaniards from both regions and these inequalities can also be reflected in this area, in fisheries. That is why, with our amendments, we seek to deepen the need to eliminate existing imbalances and differences between vessels and fishermen based solely on regional criteria. All Spaniards are equal and we must start from that equality when considering the rights to fisheries resources. Regionalist privileges must disappear. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, it is not reasonable that the consultation required of the Autonomous Communities has been increased to at least 30 different situations in this Act. What must prevail is consultation with the sector concerned. On the other hand, a genuine national fisheries policy is incompatible with the submission of an 2030 Agenda and the reports of a group of supposed experts on climate change, because these globalist agendas do not have a realistic plan for our fisheries sector and their decisions are taken from the backs of the Spanish and, in particular, from the backs of the fisheries sector, our fishermen. Curiously, not long ago, the minister himself, Mr Planas, regretted that the European Commission closed eighty-seven areas for fishing wrongly and without taking into account any up-to-date scientific information or, as the minister said, the economic and social consequences of this measure; he said so before opening the National Assembly of Fishermen's Brotherhoods. That is precisely one of the criteria that our group has taken into account in drawing up our amendment and which, surprisingly, we have seen, in the words of the minister himself. This is our amendment to Article 4, which the Socialist Group has, however, rejected. The precautionary principle is useful if applied proportionally and taking into account the economic and social consequences, and that is the objective of the amendment. It is absolutely necessary to highlight in the law the social and economic benefits of fishing activity as guiding principles. We believe that it is in the national interest to give special support to two key sectors of the population: on the one hand, small-scale fishing, small-scale fishing, and on the other hand, young people. We have already talked here about the minor arts or artisanal fishing, which generates employment, quality employment, and which generates, above all, important economic activity on the coast and which stands out for its contribution to the national gross domestic product. In our amendments we also insist on supporting young people, on the need to facilitate their incorporation into fishing activity, on the conviction that we must ensure generational relevancy and safeguard the continuity of the Spanish fishing sector, which is the first in the European Union, with more than 8700 vessels. Young people and equality are the principles that are upheld in our amendments to article 40, which seek to shield the principle of support for young people by law. The reserves should have remained at 10 %. It makes no sense that it was reduced in the parliamentary procedure to 5%. We argue that these reserves apply precisely to those possibilities of support for youth and generational relief, which can also be used to compensate for imbalances in the current distribution between ships and regions. We cannot agree with the text that has been given to the fourth additional provision, to which the Basque Group referred. The text initially made it clear that the distributions... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u55	Excuse me, Your Honor, for a second. I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u56	As I said to them, the text initially made it clear that the distributions of pre-law fishing opportunities could be modified by reason of the new regulation, and it was logical, because that was the principle of equality that I told them at the beginning. However, the Socialist Group's members have yielded to the Basque Group's claims and the validity of the previous allocations will not be affected by the entry into force of this law. This text will certainly give rise to problems not only in its application but also in its interpretation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, whatever the case, this law establishes a basis, including nothing but sixteen express development permits and a generic one to develop it by royal decree. We can only urge the ministry not to stop listening to fishermen, to remember that all Spaniards are equal and not to forget the social and economic benefits of the fisheries sector: equality, young people and help with artisanal fishing. Let's give them a break and fight to shield criteria of distribution that allow them to sustain their ships and their families. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Zambrano. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u58	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. When we were aware of the Government's willingness to introduce this bill, it was many who wondered whether this law was necessary and it was also many who told us here from the fishing sector in the parliamentary seat when they appeared - and I quote textually -: This law did not come out as a response to a request from the sector, but as a proposal from a ministerial office. We also wonder if this is the time to bring in this bill. Possibly not, because we are on the verge of a reform of the common fisheries policy, we are in a very worrying economic situation and all this affects the fisheries sector, which has seen all its operating costs increase significantly, while the sale and consumption of fishery products fell. But as far as it seems, just to mention a few recent events, a part of this Spanish fishing fleet has been expelled from more than eighty-seven fishing areas in the Atlantic, while in the Mediterranean more than 30% reduction has already been accumulated since 2020 on the fishing days of this fleet. By the way, Minister Planas, who when announced this bill said it was the most important of the legislature for his department, is absent today. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, every law must pursue a number of fundamental principles, including providing greater legal certainty and tools to solve and solve the main problems, but also during its drafting it must have the participation of all the actors involved, and at this point I would like to recall some of the expressions that those actors involved told us here. They were expressions like, "We didn't get involved. The dialogue did not exist. The sector has been heard, but it has not been heard. I think there are enough samples of that example. The other important aspect, as I say to you, is legal certainty, and when the Council of State drew up its report, what it talked about to us is legal insecurity, and I read its report textually: The adoption of a new rule brings us an appropriate link with the existing law, part of which is maintained, forcing a joint reading of both rules, which benefits nothing from legal certainty and regulatory clarity. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will affect the activity of more than 8700 vessels of the Spanish fishing fleet, in addition to other professionals of this activity, and in areas highly dependent on fishing, and one of the most worrying aspects of this law for the sector, as has already been shown and some of the people who have preceded me in the word have said, is the model of management of fishing rights, which this law radically changes. It should be remembered that these rights influence, and very much, the value of companies. So did the sector here. He said: The ship is worth what a fishing vessel has allocated; not the ship, its quotas. The modification of quota management systems in the manner addressed in this Act will pose risks to the legal certainty of the owners and, therefore, to the crew and to all those who live from the activity of that ship. They are sufficient grounds for requiring broad consensus, which has not been achieved. I appreciate the efforts that have been made, but when we amended this law in 2014 and when it was adopted in 2001, more than 50% of the amendments were accepted, this does not reach 25%. [[Applauds]] At the beginning of my speech I told them that the laws must also serve to solve the problems that affect the fisheries sector, such as the one already mentioned by the generational relief. There is no better way to facilitate this relief than by ensuring the activity of fishing vessels and thereby eliminating legal uncertainty. That would also eliminate the problem of maintaining investment. Finally, I would like to refer to some of our amendments, which have improved aspects such as clarifying competences in the autonomous communities in shellfish and aquaculture, or consulting with the sector, when it was previously just talking about hearing the sector. But the important thing is the amendments that have not been accepted, which have been rejected. They did not want to hear our proposal as to the reserve percentage, they did it in part, but above all Amendment 253, in which we put the red line to support this law. We continue to believe that all fishing rights that have been acquired prior to the entry into force of this law must remain in full force, and this law, despite attempts and despite the final text, leaves serious doubts as to whether this will be maintained. Especially, of course, how it will be ensured with a government that today says one thing and tomorrow the other. We regret the Government's veto on all the amendments that had to do with reducing coefficients. Amendment 257 remains alive, which, if it had the majority support of this House, would allow for further study of all those issues linked to the reducing coefficients. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a law not demanded by the sector, which is inopportune because of the current situation, which generates great legal uncertainty, which does not provide tools to address the main problems of the sector and which did not count on its participation. That is why he cannot receive our support. He concluded by thanking the other rapporteurs who listened to our proposals, the Commission's lawyer and my colleagues in that Commission, but especially Belén Hoyo, Jaime de Olano and Milagros Marcos for the help they have given me during this work. [[Applauds]] My last words are to wish all the women and men who daily work hard in very adverse conditions at sea and, particularly, those to whom the sea took away the life of some loved one this year, who can enjoy in the company of their families a Merry Christmas and that in the year 2023 they will see improved the conditions under which they develop this noble trade. To all your lordships, too, the same wishes. [[The lady]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u60	Egun on. Good morning. It's time to look forward. These are times when we do not have to stay in what it was, nor in the resignation in a sector we have been talking about, that of fishing and that of the sea, in which we especially have to unite efforts and give alternatives. These alternatives must begin by supporting a fundamental and future strategic sector from across society. One sector - I have heard about it many times - which is now being characterized, and what is unfortunately going to be characterized in the coming years, is going to be uncertainty. It is an uncertainty of economic viability and of fishing activity, but it is also an uncertainty that comes from the global food uncertainty that we are going to face in the coming years. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u61	Excuse me a second. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u62	I repeat, uncertainty is what is currently characterizing the sector for its economic viability but, fundamentally, because it is going through two major global crises: the protein extraction that humanity needs in the future and that is going to be the source of major conflicts, and an uncertainty of climate change. These uncertainties are creating a huge clash of interests within the sector. So, we have to have two looks: a look in the short term and a look in the long term. We cannot stay - as we have heard in the previous intervention - in the short term, do not move anything, leave it so that the usual ones continue to profit. That perspective must be changed. That is why we have announced that we have withdrawn our amendments. We are going to give approval to this framework because we consider it a fundamental starting point; a framework to which we do not give all the guarantees, in which we have only received a series of personal guarantees and promises, but we are going to give that opportunity. For example, we do not like this law as it ignores and does not address one of the fundamental elements: the food chain. The control of the food chain is a fundamental element in the viability of the sector - as we were told by technicians who have come to talk to us - so that when we go to buy we look if a jar of pretty half a kilo by 4 euros and another of 8 euros correspond to the same qualities and to the same conditions of extraction, work and exploitation. That is precisely what we should be looking at in order to achieve the viability of the sector. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u63	Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u64	Thank you, President. In that clash of interests I was commenting on, it is essential to have arbitrators. Do you know which is the best referee we can have from here to the future? Scientific knowledge. We need to ensure that there is a close alliance between scientists and fishermen and that there is assurance in that arbitration. We have to get every ship, every company, to be really a research center, a part of the research we're going to have to carry on. In each ship there must be an investigator, a research collaborator, only then can we have certainty, certainty and good alliances. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the best gift I can give you is to be brief. In Basque the congratulations at these parties are said eguberri on. It's a new era. Eguberri are for you and for the peoples of the State you represent. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are bringing to this plenary the most important draft of the fisheries legislature: the new law on sustainable fisheries and fisheries research. A bill that responds to the need to modernize the current State Maritime Fisheries Act enacted in 2001, as a number of new developments have taken place throughout its more than 20 years of operation, both in Community legislation and in international ocean governance, which require it to be updated. But it also comes to give, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a solution to a part of the sector that constantly demands more fishing opportunities for its survival, to the artisanal fleet, that part of the sector that you do not listen to. This law also builds the necessary framework for achieving triple sustainability in this area: environmental, social and economic sustainability. Now I'd like to stop at each of them. Environmental sustainability is spelled out in its definition: sustainable and fisheries research. In this context, it should be remembered that fisheries resources are limited and strategies are therefore needed to ensure efficient and sustainable management. In this line, the new law introduces the possibility of taking measures to strengthen the sensitive and intelligent conservation and exploitation of the oceans with the advice of the sector and with the best available scientific information. Elements such as climate change, plastic pollution or invasive species, to cite just a few examples, affect the state of resources and have to be taken into account in research campaigns. Therefore, with this text we are committed to strengthening the link between fishing and science, since scientific knowledge is an absolutely necessary premise for fishing activity and it must underpin decision-making. A recent case of successful sustainable exploitation of resources is the southern hake quota obtained by the Minister of Agriculture in the last negotiation of the European Union Fisheries Council: 9953 tonnes, a figure that doubles that obtained in 2022, which is the highest in the last eight years and which has been made possible by the recovery of stocks of this species resulting from fishing limitations. I shall now turn to economic sustainability, which is also a fundamental pillar on which this new law is based. It is essential to ensure the business development of the sector and the generational relief, in this way we will achieve the consolidation of a modern and competitive sector. To this end, the criteria for the allocation of fishing opportunities are updated and the arts and fleets that have less impact on fishing resources or waves that contribute more to the local economy are given weight in the allocation. Mechanisms to optimise management of fishing opportunities are introduced for the first time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u67	Excuse me for a moment, Mrs. Gonzalez. I have to ask you again quietly, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u68	He said that mechanisms to optimise management of fishing opportunities were introduced for the first time. Thus, those uncaptured surplus may be redistributed among the fleets dependent on that resource. A new use is also being made of the State's reservation of fishing opportunities to allow the entry into a fishery of vessels which do not meet the historical activity requirements required by the reservation. In addition, speculation with fishing possibilities is put to an end, causing the owners of sofas to disappear, those who at the time were fishing but who are currently selling their possibilities to third parties, obtaining a profitability without exercising the activity. All these tools guarantee the economic sustainability of the whole sector and give viability to the craft fleet. The latter maintains a large number of productive activities, sets the population in the territory and maintains ties of respect and protection towards the ocean that provides for its livelihood. Of course, we cannot talk about fishing without its people, of the people of the sea, of the women and men who keep these trades alive, whose hardness sometimes rouses heroism. It is therefore essential that social sustainability is enshrined in this law, and we take it in the form of measures that give greater protection to these groups of workers. For the first time, nets, nets and packers shall have a minimum age reduction coefficient of 0.15 in order to receive the retirement pension. This coefficient will also include foot-mackers, matching them with sea-mackers, which is more than just by taking a step further towards real equality in all aspects. [[Applauds]] For the first time, professional divers are also recognized as a reduction coefficient of 0.15, a hard profession, unknown to many, but unquestionably necessary in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, the new law on sustainable fisheries and fisheries research puts an end to speculation and opens up the fishing opportunities for more players in the sector, that is, it distributes wealth among the various sectors involved in the professions of the sea, while protecting its people. [[Rumors]] It is certainly another example of what the left is doing when it is at the head of the country. Undoubtedly, in these years of government of progress we have moved towards a more egalitarian country, more committed to the environment and greater social justice; a country with record in job creation and labour legislation that recovers rights and protects workers in all sectors... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u69	Excuse me, again, Mrs. Gonzalez. Wait a minute, please. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one minute left to speak. I ask you, please, to remain silent. It is impossible to follow the speaker, impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u70	Thank you, President. He said that, no doubt, in these years of progress, we have moved towards a more egalitarian country, more committed to the environment and greater social justice; a country with record job creation and labour legislation that recovers rights and protects workers in all productive sectors, ages and situations. We have adopted a labour reform that improves working and wage conditions and fights against precariousness and temporaryity. The Food Chain Act has entered into force to protect professionals in the primary sector who prohibit the sale at loss and respond to a historical demand. We have passed the Organic Law on the Ordination and Integration of Vocational Training, which will undoubtedly have an important impact on our economy and on the employability of the young population. Thanks to the people's government, today, in Spain, citizenship is protected in its day-to-day by a social shield, with quality public services, which are a guarantee of equal opportunities in a country in constant transformation that faces the uncertainties of the future more united, with more strength and with more guarantees. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs González. We'll vote in five minutes. Please note that there are more than 300 votes and therefore the estimated time is more than two hours. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Draft Organic Law of the University System. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero and Mr Sayas López. Amendment 594. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 106 against, 180 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u73	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro and Mrs Fernández Pérez. Amendment 203. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 27 against, 219 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u74	It's rejected. Amendments 204, 209 and 218. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 16 against, 320 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u75	They're rejected. Amendment 205. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 125 against, 203 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u76	It's rejected. Amendment 206. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 125 against, 152 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u77	It's rejected. Amendment 207. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 15 against, 305 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u78	It's rejected. Amendments 208 and 220. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 15 against, 302 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u79	They're rejected. Amendments 210 and 221. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 19 against, 302 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u80	They're rejected. Amendment 211. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 72 against, 247 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u81	It's rejected. Amendments 213 to 215. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 106 against, 228 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u82	They're rejected. Amendment 222. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 6 against, 304 abstentions, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u83	It's rejected. Amendment 223. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 20 against, 243 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u84	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 116 against, 214 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u85	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. Amendments 493, 494, 527 and 529. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 28 against, 308 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u86	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 32 against, 304 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u87	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] Amendments 224 and 278. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 36 against, 214 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u88	They're rejected. Amendments 238, 239 and 263. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 36 against, 303 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u89	They're rejected. Amendment 268. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 137 against, 203 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u90	It's rejected. Amendment 272. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 37 against, 165 abstentions, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u91	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 126 against, 162 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u92	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendments 288 to 292. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 9 against, 242 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u93	They're rejected. Amendment 314 and 327. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 13 against, 328 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u94	They're rejected. Amendment 315. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 62 against, 180 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u95	It's rejected. Amendments 316 and 348. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 13 against, 274 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u96	They're rejected. Amendment 318. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 18 against, 317 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u97	It's rejected. Amendment 319. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 13 against, 175 abstentions, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u98	It's rejected. Amendment 329. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 17 against, 228 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u99	It's rejected. Amendment 330. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 17 against, 265 abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u100	It's rejected. Amendment 347. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 99 against, 185 abstentions, 61.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u101	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 9 against, 233 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u102	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 117. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 109 against, 204 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u103	It's rejected. Amendment 122. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] - No, no, no, The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 26 against, 310 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u104	It's rejected. Amendments 123, 126 and 157. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 4 against, 333 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u105	They're rejected. Amendments 127 and 142. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 5 against, 261 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u106	They're rejected. Amendment 128. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 34 against, 204 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u107	It's rejected. Amendment 131. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 13 against, 231 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u108	It's rejected. Amendments 132, 133, 148, 154, 160, 170, 174 and 179. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 22 against, 303 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u109	They're rejected. Amendments 134. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 128 against, 201 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u110	It's rejected. Amendment 135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 41 against, 204 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u111	It's rejected. Amendments 136 and 139. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 13 against, 304 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u112	They're rejected. Amendment 146. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 7 against, 314 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u113	It's rejected. Amendment 149. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 3; 210 against, 133 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u114	It's rejected. Amendments 150 and 156. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 22 against, 305 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u115	They're rejected. Amendments 151, 165, 171 to 173 and 180. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 22 against, 308 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u116	They're rejected. Amendment 161. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 8 against, 240 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u117	It's rejected. Amendment 162. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 258 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u118	It's rejected. Amendment 164. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 258 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u119	It's rejected. Amendment 176. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 98 against, 166 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u120	It's rejected. Amendment 177. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 7 against, 325 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u121	It's rejected. Amendment 178. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 12 against, 323 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u122	It's rejected. Amendment 803. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 36 against, 297 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u123	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 8 against, 312 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u124	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendment 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 7 against, 250 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u125	It's rejected. Amendment 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 5 against, 304 abstentions, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u126	It's rejected. Amendment 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 21 against, 313 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u127	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 26 against, 304 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u128	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí and Mr Bel Accensi. Amendments 708, 713, 720, 727, 729, 733, 735, 737, 750, 764, 767, 770, 775, 780, 781, 788, 793, 797, 798 and 800. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 33 against, 214 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u129	They're rejected. Amendments 709, 728, 746, 752, 776 and 799. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 42 against, 156 abstentions, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u130	They're rejected. Amendments 710, 721, 726, 736, 738, 742, 743, 756 and 787. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 121 against, 210 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u131	They're rejected. Amendments 711, 724 and 741. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 121 against, 158 abstentions, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u132	They're rejected. Amendment 712. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 186 against, 154 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u133	It's approved. Amendment 716. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 117 against, 172 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u134	It's rejected. Amendments 717, 745, 761 and 796. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 8 against, 323 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u135	They're rejected. Amendment 722. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 106 against, 228 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u136	It's rejected. Amendments 723, 777 and 795 The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 42 against, 245 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u137	They're rejected. Amendment 747. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 32 against, 161 abstentions, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u138	It's rejected. Amendments 749 and 794. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 22 against, 220 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u139	They're rejected. Amendments 753 and 801. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 126 against, 208 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u140	They're rejected. Amendments 762 and 769. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 14 against, 153 abstentions, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u141	They're rejected. Amendment 766. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 99 against, 232 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u142	It's rejected. Amendment 778. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 120 against, 221 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u143	It's rejected. Amendment 783. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 8 against, 311 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u144	It's rejected. Amendment 784. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 33 against, 304 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u145	It's rejected. Amendment 785. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 34 against, 299 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u146	It's rejected. Amendment 802. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 135 against, 154 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u147	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Miquel i Valentí and Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 34 against, 306 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u148	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. Amendments 37 and 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 136 against, 205 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u149	They're rejected. Amendments 41 and 51. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 122 against, 155 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u150	They're rejected. Amendment 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 41 against, 296 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u151	It's rejected. Amendment 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 24 abstentions, 291.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u152	It's approved. Amendment 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 37 against, 297 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u153	It's rejected. Amendments 80 and 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 34 against, 215 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u154	They're rejected. Amendment 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 20 against, 298 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u155	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 82. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 97 against, 238 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u156	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 103. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 37 against, 299 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u157	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 104. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 39 against, 297 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u158	It is therefore rejected. The rest of Mrs Illamola Dausà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 28 against, 307 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u159	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 375. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 37 against, 217 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u160	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 398 and 407. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 75 against, 253 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u161	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 400, 420 and 455. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 303 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u162	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 418. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 129 against, 203 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u163	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 441. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 36 against, 304 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u164	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 459. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 121 against, 157 abstentions, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u165	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 214 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u166	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 595, 614, 619 to 621, 660, 679, 686, 692 and 693. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 90 against, 182 abstentions, 73.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u167	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 602, 604, 605, 607, 623, 624, 639, 640, 642, 651, 655, 657, 659, 664, 667, 690, 696, 698 and 699. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 141 against, 191 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u168	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 608, 612, 617, 626, 629, 631-635, 643, 646, 663, 666, 687, 701, 702 and 704. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 91 against, 241 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u169	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 622 and 703. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 103 against, 231 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u170	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 649, 674, 675 and 681. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 105 against, 185 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u171	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 677 and 705. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 153 against, 188 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u172	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 678. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 95 against, 175 abstentions, 76.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u173	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 706. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 151 against, 176 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u174	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 91 against, 238 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u175	They are therefore rejected. Transactional amendment 89 presented in the Commission by the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress and VOX to Amendment 222 by Mrs Oramas González-Moro. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 147 against, 195 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u176	It is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u177	We turn to the following opinion, Employment Bill. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro and Mrs Fernández Pérez. Amendment 39. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 112 against, 224 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u178	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 96 against, 224 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u179	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 136. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 131 against, 205 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u180	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 137. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 38 against, 205 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u181	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 139. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 136 against, 205 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u182	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 143. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 35 against, 253 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u183	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 145 and 149. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 36 against, 215 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u184	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 157. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 40 against, 295 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u185	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 163. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 34 against, 303 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u186	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 164. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 89 against, 244 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u187	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 27 against, 207 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u188	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 360. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 66 against, 277 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u189	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 364, 365, 374, 378 and 381. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 64 against, 185 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u190	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 369 and 382. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 11 against, 238 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u191	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 372. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 103 against, 239 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u192	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 373. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 12 against, 275 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u193	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 379. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 107 against, 184 abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u194	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 152 against, 190 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u195	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 44 and 63. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 116 against, 220 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u196	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 51, 81 and 82. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 24 against, 266 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u197	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 75 against, 263 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u198	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 85. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 79 against, 169 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u199	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 23 against, 314 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u200	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 26 against, 223 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u201	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 7 and 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 34 against, 299 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u202	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 13, 15, 17, 19, 21 and 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 24 against, 304 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u203	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 16, 24, 25 and 35. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 34 against, 254 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u204	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 20 and 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 25 against, 249 abstentions, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u205	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 29 and 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 25 against, 258 abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u206	They are therefore rejected. The rest of Mr Baldoví Roda's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 25 against, 314 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u207	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boadella Esteve. Amendment 165. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 84 against, 164 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u208	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 166 and 184. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 123 against, 217 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u209	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 170, 188, 216, 218, 243, 252, 261 to 263 and 266. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 63 against, 256 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u210	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 171 and 172. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 63 against, 270 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u211	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 173. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 17 against, 319 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u212	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 174 and 175. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 71 against, 272 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u213	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 176, 195, 220, 222, 223, 254, 260, 268, 271 and 272. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 63 against, 166 abstentions, 117.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u214	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 177. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 20 against, 159 abstentions, 167.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u215	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 181, 183 and 185. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 25 against, 316 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u216	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 182, 224 to 226, 228, 237, 244 and 264. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 72 against, 167 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u217	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 186, 187 and 198. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 24 against, 309 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u218	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 189. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 62 against, 189 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u219	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 190. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 115 against, 211 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u220	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 191 to 193. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 177 against, 161 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u221	Accordingly, they were adopted. [[Applauds]] Amendments 194 and 196. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 24 against, 213 abstentions, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u222	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 200, 205, 214, 238, 247, 253 and 265. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 10 against, 307 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u223	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 201. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 62 against, 259 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u224	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 202, 204, 212, 213, 235, 233, 236, 245, 246, 248 and 258. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 162 against, 167 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u225	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 206. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 23 against, 216 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u226	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 207, 208, 269 and 270. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 10 against, 317 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u227	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 210 and 211. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 108 against, 218 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u228	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 221, 239, 241 and 250. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 97 against, 219 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u229	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 227. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 22 against, 307 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u230	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 229, 230, 240, 251 and 259. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 11 against, 217 abstentions, 116.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u231	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 242. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 61 against, 261 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u232	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 255. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 11 against, 254 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u233	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 257. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 61 against, 176 abstentions, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u234	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boadella Esteve. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 97 against, 217 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u235	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. Amendments 291, 292, 300 and 309. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 30 against, 311 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u236	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 294 and 295. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 121 against, 221 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u237	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 298 and 299. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 33 against, 302 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u238	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 301. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 41 against, 212 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u239	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 302. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 129 against, 212 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u240	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 303. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 93 against, 160 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u241	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 304 and 308. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 79 against, 164 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u242	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 306. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 78 against, 253 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u243	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 307. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 11 against, 227 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u244	It is therefore rejected. The rest of Mr Pagès i Massó's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 113 against, 210 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u245	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 89 and 123. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 33 against, 221 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u246	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 92, 93, 95, 98, 99, 101 and 104. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 27 against, 302 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u247	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 103. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 41 against, 209 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u248	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 106. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 94 against, 160 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u249	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 107 and 120. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 41 against, 298 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u250	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 108. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 176 against, 159 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u251	It was therefore adopted. Amendment 114. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 33 against, 213 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u252	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 115. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 85 against, 168 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u253	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 119 and 122. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 85 against, 160 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u254	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 124. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 81 against, 258 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u255	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 29 against, 311 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u256	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 310 and 358. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 101 against, 185 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u257	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 311 to 314, 318, 323, 324, 330, 332, 333, 339 and 354. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 145 against, 185 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u258	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 315, 317, 320, 326, 329, 331 and 336. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 102 against, 236 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u259	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 321. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 94 against, 246 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u260	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 325, 340, 345-347, 353 and 356. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 93 against, 237 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u261	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 349 and 355. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 145 against, 194 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u262	They are therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 154 against, 189 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u263	They are therefore rejected. Transactional amendments. Transactional Amendment No 1 to Amendment No 288 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 279 against, 53 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u264	It was therefore adopted. Transactional Amendment No 2 to Amendment No 289 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 280 against, 2 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u265	It was therefore adopted. Transactional Amendment No 3 to Amendment No 293 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 335 against, 1 abstention, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u266	It was therefore adopted. Amendment No 4 to Amendment No 297 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 237 against, 2 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u267	It was therefore adopted. Transactional amendment No 5 to amendment 118 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 243 against, 92 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u268	It was therefore adopted. Transactional amendment No 6 to Amendment No 5 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 332 against, 9 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u269	It was therefore adopted. Amendment No 7 to Amendment No 30, Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 189 against, 150 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u270	It was therefore adopted. Transactional Amendment No 8 to Amendment 161 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 291 against, 53 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u271	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u272	We shall now proceed to the next opinion. Draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez and Mrs Oramas González-Moro. Amendment 98. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 5 against, 326 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u273	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. Amendment 87. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 37 against, 303 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u274	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 97. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 36 against, 272 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u275	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] Amendments 55 and 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 71 against, 272 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u276	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 60. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 35 against, 303 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u277	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 63 to 65, 74, 75 and 79. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 39 against, 304 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u278	They are therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 37 against, 302 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u279	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 247. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 26 against, 220 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u280	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 249. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 27 against, 312 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u281	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 250. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 73 against, 175 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u282	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 251 to 253 and 257. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 10 against, 328 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u283	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 261. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 34 against, 295 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u284	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 9 against, 327 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u285	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 263, 264 and 268. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 32 against, 256 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u286	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 265-267 and 269. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 26 against, 264 abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u287	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 271 and 287. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 20 against, 309 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u288	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 273, 283 and 294. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 49 against, 272 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u289	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 282. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 91 against, 223 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u290	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 284 and 285. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 24 against, 306 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u291	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 286. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 153 against, 181 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u292	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 16 against, 305 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u293	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendments 5-7 and 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 61 against, 271 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u294	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 8 and 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 16 against, 318 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u295	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 9 and 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 53 against, 272 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u296	They are therefore rejected. The rest of Mr Errejón Galván's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 27 against, 312 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u297	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez. Amendments 99, 106, 108, 110, 113, 121 and 124. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 54 against, 273 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u298	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 24 against, 309 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u299	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 138, 140, 142, 151, 152, 159 to 162, 172, 177, 192, 201, 202 and 234. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 16 against, 310 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u300	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 139, 165, 171, 175, 178 to 190, 193, 198 and 221 to 228. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 21 against, 309 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u301	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 143, 170, 174, 200, 211, 214, 217 and 230. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 58 against, 279 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u302	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 150, 153 and 203. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 52 against, 272 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u303	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 220. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 67 against, 267 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u304	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 24 against, 303 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u305	They are therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the Republican parliamentary groups, Euskal Herria Bildu, Plural and Mixto. Amendment 136. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 59 against, 272 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u306	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Republicano, Euskal Herria Bildu, Vasco EAJ-PNV, Mixto and Plural. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 72 against, 271 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u307	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 296-298 and 340. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 91 against, 251 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u308	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 299, 311, 320, 325, 329, 331 to 334, 336 to 338, 344, 348, 350, 352, 355, 357, 360, 363 to 367, 369, 370, 372, 375 and 376. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 141 against, 200 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u309	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 309. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 103 against, 235 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u310	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 349. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 90 against, 198 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u311	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 351. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 147 against, 195 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u312	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 91 against, 199 abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u313	They are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u314	We shall now proceed to the next opinion. Securities Markets and Investment Services Bill. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendments 132 and 133. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 101 against, 188 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u315	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 152 against, 193 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u316	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 47. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 61 against, 254 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u317	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 5 against, 254 abstentions, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u318	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 54 and 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 65 against, 274 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u319	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 56 against, 274 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u320	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 66. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 155 against, 179 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u321	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 74. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 95 against, 236 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u322	It is therefore rejected. Rest of amendments by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 147 against, 178 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u323	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 156 against, 171 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u324	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 149 against, 179 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u325	They are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u326	We turn to the following committee opinion, Draft Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting on Normative and Anti-Corruption Offences. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 35 against, 253 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u327	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 36 against, 303 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u328	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 31 against, 214 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u329	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendments 26 and 28. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 17 against, 273 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u330	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 10 against, 239 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u331	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván and Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendment 245. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 175 against, 107 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u332	It was therefore adopted. Amendments 249, 268 and 269. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 26 against, 260 abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u333	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 262 and 265. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 67 against, 270 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u334	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 263. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 66 against, 257 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u335	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 267. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 30 against, 165 abstentions, 151.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u336	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Errejón Galván and Mr Baldoví Roda. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 23 against, 305 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u337	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve and Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 129. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 176 against, 105 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u338	It was therefore adopted. Amendments 130 and 166. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 26 against, 260 abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u339	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 134. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 56 against, 262 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u340	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 135 and 144. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 72 against, 171 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u341	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 141 and 155. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 57 against, 170 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u342	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 143 and 159. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 69 against, 259 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u343	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 149. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 19 against, 222 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u344	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 153, 163 and 165. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 18 against, 169 abstentions, 159.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u345	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 164. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 13 against, 230 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u346	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Boadella Esteve and Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 19 against, 306 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u347	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. Amendment 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 178 against, 104 abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u348	It was therefore adopted. Amendments 42, 45, 56 and 61 to 63. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 28 against, 252 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u349	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 18 against, 308 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u350	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 91. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 181 against, 16 abstentions, 149.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u351	It was therefore adopted. Amendments 92, 116 and 125. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 28 against, 167 abstentions, 151.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u352	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 233 against, 104 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u353	It was therefore adopted. Amendment 103. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 83 against, 253 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u354	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 111, 118 and 127. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 41 against, 245 abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u355	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 115. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 32 against, 216 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u356	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 28 against, 305 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u357	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 281, 287 and 288. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 53 against, 201 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u358	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 54 against, 289 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u359	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 168, 170, 171, 174, 176 to 180, 182, 183, 197, 201, 204, 206, 207, 209, 214, 222, 227, 228, 230, 235 and 236. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 143 against, 201 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u360	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 173, 184, 188, 196, 199, 200, 205, 213, 216, 218, 220, 225, 229, 232, 240 and 244. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 91 against, 252 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u361	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 91 against, 201 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u362	They are therefore rejected. Transactional amendment to amendment 121 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 187 against, 100 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u363	It was therefore adopted. Technical correction to article 43. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 254 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u364	The technical correction was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the following opinion, the Sustainable Fisheries and Fisheries Research Bill. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. Amendment 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 109 against, 167 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u366	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 158 against, 172 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u367	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 130 against, 209 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u368	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 72 against, 183 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u369	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 8 and 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 67 against, 269 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u370	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 172 against, 173 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u371	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 104 against, 184 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u372	It is therefore rejected. The rest of Mr Mazón Ramos' amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 184 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u373	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez and Mrs Oramas González-Moro. Amendment 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 124 against, 211 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u374	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 36. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 67 against, 267 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u375	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 156 against, 178 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u376	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 39. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 107 against, 169 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u377	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV. Amendment 56. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 10 against, 322 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u378	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 60 against, 268 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u379	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 36 against, 217 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u380	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 121 against, 216 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u381	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendments 353 and 364. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 61 against, 282 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u382	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 355-357. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 17 against, 223 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u383	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 358 and 363. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 66 against, 167 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u384	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 359. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 16 against, 182 abstentions, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u385	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 360 and 366. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 13 against, 324 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u386	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 365. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 70 against, 177 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u387	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 152 against, 187 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u388	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 35 against, 156 abstentions, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u389	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 99, 100, 102, 104, 106, 114, 122, 134, 135 and 282. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 115 against, 226 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u390	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 27 against, 209 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u391	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 103. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 8 against, 166 abstentions, 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u392	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 105, 111 and 149. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 157 against, 167 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u393	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 128. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 13 against, 306 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u394	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 131. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 7 against, 217 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u395	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 133. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 17 against, 305 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u396	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 137. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 25 against, 312 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u397	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 139. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 101 against, 174 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u398	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 140. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 107 against, 166 abstentions, 73.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u399	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 141. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 7 against, 236 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u400	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 142, 147 and 148. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 32 against, 215 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u401	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 146. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 116 against, 176 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u402	It is therefore rejected. The rest of Mr Rego Candamil's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 21 against, 309 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u403	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 20 against, 304 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u404	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia and Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 291. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 13 against, 164 abstentions, 169.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u405	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 292, 301 and 303. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 98 against, 241 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u406	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 297, 298 and 304. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 159 against, 163 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u407	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 93 against, 238 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u408	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. Amendments 368 and 385. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 111 against, 161 abstentions, 74.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u409	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 369. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 21 against, 308 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u410	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 371 and 373. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 75 against, 260 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u411	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 375. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 9 against, 332 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u412	It is therefore rejected. Amendment 383. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 66 against, 254 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u413	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 384, 386 and 387. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 166 against, 158 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u414	Accordingly, they were adopted. Amendment 389. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 95 against, 237 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u415	It is therefore rejected. The rest of Mr Pagès i Massó's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 23 against, 313 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u416	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 185. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 84 against, 250 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u417	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 193 and 194. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 121 against, 155 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u418	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 197. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 114 against, 220 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u419	It is therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 22 against, 304 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u420	They are therefore rejected. Amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Amendment 273. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 54 against, 270 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u421	It is therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 338 and 340. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 54 against, 193 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u422	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 341, 344 and 346. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 152 against, 192 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u423	They are therefore rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 54 against, 281 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u424	They are therefore rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 201, 217, 220-223, 229, 248 and 249. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 118 against, 220 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u425	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 202, 214, 238, 244 and 250. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 106 against, 219 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u426	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 203. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 165 against, 172 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u427	It is therefore rejected. Amendments 211, 215 and 247. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 152 against, 174 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u428	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 224, 227, 228, 246 and 253. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 91 against, 240 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u429	They are therefore rejected. Amendments 232 and 240. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 101 against, 196 abstentions, 49.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u430	They are therefore rejected. Amendment 257. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 167 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u431	It is therefore rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 151 against, 188 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u432	It is therefore rejected. Transitional amendment to Amendment 21 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez and Mrs Oramas González-Moro. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 317 against, 7 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u433	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u434	We continue with the amendments approved by the Senate to the Sports Bill. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Pérez. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence, you have to start the Member, Mrs Fernández Pérez. [[Rumors]] Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u435	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have little to say about this law - it was about time it was passed - although those who love sport and those who have been linked to it were expecting a law a little more transformative, more transgressive. It is true that progress is being made on women's equal rights, that progress is being made on disability and that progress is being made on many issues, but the truth is that it is quite limited to the field of competition. In the Canary Islands we have a Sports Act that also talks about physical activity, which is what 90% of the population practices - physical activity, not federated sport. It is also true that physical activity is recognized there as something essential, so we are taking steps and recognizing what everyone already knew, and it is that sport, physical activity and health are intimately related. In this speech, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that in the Senate we could adopt, with almost all the votes in favour, a vital amendment for the sector, which does not exclude anyone, but which returns a few, those who have a degree in law, some legal certainty and which is called by their name. This is a very beneficial thing that was approved by a majority of the Senate House. I think there are some parties that are thinking of changing the vote that came from the Senate. I ask you in this rostrum less hypocrisy and more work. If you have voted yes, do not change here to a negative vote, please. It has been very hard for us to bring this amendment forward, and it is not the merit of the Canary Coalition, it is the merit of COLEF and the professional associations of graduates in Physical Education. It's something they've been fighting for for years and deserve a minimum of respect, they deserve that, after this struggle and that we've managed to pass in the Senate, we've validated something that's fair here, in Congress. And I look at the PP, because it voted mostly in favour of this amendment. I ask you, please, not to change your position, because it is no longer a political issue, it is a security issue in the sector. I conclude by telling you that there is still a compromise amendment which prompts the Government to regulate the profession within a maximum of six months. And I will quickly explain to you why this is of vital importance. We have many laws, autonomous and state, which talk all the time about sports technicians, when we have a wide range of graduates or graduates in vocational training. We have a lot of people who aren't ordered. And what about this? Because, like in a hospital not everyone is an administrative assistant, in sports not everyone is a sports technician. This is something that needs to be done and this law sets a deadline. We will be vigilant to ensure that this deadline is met. Congratulations to COLEF for the work and organizations that have been behind the law. Let us hope that this is a small step forward in a sport law that really encompasses everything, sport, physical activity and the majority of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u436	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor. Mr Butran PAHISSA: Thank you, President. The amendments incorporated in the law do not correct the reasons that led us to vote against and that are, essentially, the international competition of the Catalan sports teams. The small advance is maintained in article 44.2, the so-called sports with roots, but always with the approval of the Higher Sports Council. I will tell you with a recent and clear example. In the football world, Spain fell in eighths. I'm sorry he didn't give me, and not just me, but many, many, many, and I'll tell you why. First, because the victories of Spain are accompanied by an explosion of Spanish nationalism, usually driven by those who often say that politics must not be mixed with sport, provided that this is to discredit some feminist, social, anti-racist claim. But there's a second reason why we don't go with the Spanish team, and it's because they don't let ours play; so easy. We cannot compete internationally, even the law qualifies as a very serious infringement - article 98.1 - that a athlete does not attend the calls of the Spanish selection; that is, mandatory to be Spanish. Just as our language deserves respect and future, regardless of the number of speakers it has or the literature it has, our country deserves to compete internationally regardless of its sporting merits. But, as we are, I will remind you that Catalonia could occupy a very prominent place: in the Tokyo Olympic Games, 89 athletes were Catalans, such as Mireia Belmonte, Ona Carbonell, Laia Palau or many of the Catalans who make up the historic water polo team; the basketball player, with Navarro, the Gasol, Ricky Rubio, Aureola or Pau Ribas; in women's football, Aitana Bonmati or the double gold ball winner, Alexia Putellas.; in men, Spain won a world championship with players like Piqué, Pujol, Capdevila, Busquets, Xavi, Fàbregas or Valdés, and today the best player in the world is Argentine, but he graduated in our country, in Catalonia. It's over. Some of these sportsmen, if the disjunctive were to be given, might prefer to continue representing Spain - perhaps - and there is no problem, because here it is about being able to choose, and this law goes in the opposite direction. What you, the Spaniards, felt from the eighth, that you didn't know who to go with or, rather, that you had to go with someone maybe to go against someone else, is the bread of every day for many Catalans, Basques, Galicians, who can't see or encourage their selections internationally. The world of sport would be much better if everyone could represent or encourage the country they chose in international competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u437	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u438	Mr President, I am speaking from the seat, if I may, very briefly. We are not going to debate it again, we are not going to open the debate on the Sport Act, because we have already discussed it here and now we are talking about incorporating the amendments that come from the Senate. This law has been discussed again in the Senate, I believe, widely, and we are not going to reproduce things that we have already said at the time. We believe that some of the amendments incorporated bring things to the text, but others I believe do not bring anything of value to the law, even I believe that they need not be incorporated; some are harmless and others may even become harmful, in our view. Having said that, we think that, overall, it is not a law that we embrace efusively, because we consider that it still leaves many issues and requests that were very important to us. We have reached an important agreement with the Government so that some autonomous selections, due to their international projection, can have their own representation, because this has historically been demonstrated by their federations. Therefore, let us say that we are partially content with this law. Nothing more from our side, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u439	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor. [[Pause]] No one intervenes for Citizens. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u440	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking to say that some amendments also seem interesting to us. In any case, they do not change our position on a law that does recognize that there is a problem in relation to Galician autonomic or national selections - in our opinion, opens a door, but a really narrow door - but does not solve it properly. Therefore, we will have to continue working in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u441	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u442	Thank you very much, President. We announce that we will vote in favour of this opinion. The law is better, the law improves many aspects, but we believe, sincerely, that an opportunity has been missed to deepen the topic and give more power to amateurs in clubs, basically football, which are depersonalizing completely and losing what they represented at another time. Football clubs in many cities today are businesses of people who have nothing to do with that city and who respond only to their own economic interests, and not to that added value given by hobbies and which in many families is inherited from parents to children. Some things have been collected, but we believe that an opportunity has been missed to delve into the issue. In the Valencian case, for lights and shadows. We are pleased that, finally, the amendment we tabled for the recognition of the Valencian driver as a sport, despite VOX's efforts, has remained as it left Congress. And we honestly don't understand that obsession with not wanting to recognize the Free Spanish Cup for a Valencian club like the Levante. Sincerely, we do not understand that the Historical Memory Act has been made and that the Free Spanish Cup for the Levant is not recognized once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u443	Thank you very much. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u444	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that Junts voted against this law here in Congress simply because it denies Catalan selections their right to exist and participate in official competitions without restrictions. Point. In the process of Congress it was agreed to authorize, on time, the participation of sports selections with social roots in a certain community or of those federations that will form part of the international federation before the Spanish federation, and following this amendment we understand that there was a situation of risk, which was that the Catalan federations and selections that already had presence in international competitions will also be forced to rely on the authorization of the CSD. This situation, as well as that the quota of integration of the autonomous federations in the Spanish ones is free, has been resolved in the Senate with the amendments of the Union of Catalan Sports Federations presented by Junts. But we still hope that the resources of the Spanish women will reach the autonomous federations. Yesterday, for example, a direct subsidy of 12 million was approved to the Spanish Sports Association for digital training of athletes, and we wonder what part of that money, of that game, will reach the grassroots sport in the respective federations. This law, moreover, came out of Congress dragging a mistake, as we warned the Socialist Group, and in the Senate it has not been resolved. It is an error that leaves athletes partially unprotected from situations of discrimination, harassment or abuse. In article 4.5, we have found that any action that may be considered discrimination, abuse or harassment and/or harassment on grounds of sex or authority should be brought to the attention of the sanctioning body under the Higher Sports Council in order to be punished - care - as a serious offence, in accordance with the relevant article, in this case 105. But in that article 105, in which he realized what serious breaches were, there was no reference to such proceedings. We need to correct this error if we do not want legal uncertainty again to hold headlines in the press, because unfortunately - I repeat: unfortunately - in women's sport there are cases of discrimination and harassment on the grounds of sex, in addition to authority, to the extent that the FUTPRO union of women footballers prepares an online mechanism to be able to denounce these types of situations anonymously. We are going to be marking the man - I repeat: a marking the man - so that this is corrected and well protected sports women. An amendment has been adopted calling for the trade unions of the players, and is that the failure to produce the annual equality report, to which professional federations and leagues are obliged, or that there are no protocols for action against harassment or abuse on grounds of authority or sex, is considered to be very serious. It is an amendment that adds to the many improvements that Junts has also made to make sport truly equal. It has also come forward that players' unions can negotiate and sign agreements. It is a pity, and I say it once again, that animals are the great forgotten. It has not been accepted that federations have an obligation to bring their regulations into line with animal protection laws. We've all lost this game, but it looks like we're just a few sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u445	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we come to the end of the world of this Sport Law, which was already playing after so many months of very hard negotiations, but which have served to at least bring about a beneficial sport law among minimums, we could say. It is a law of sport that, as we have always said, is not our law of sport, but it is true that there are a lot of amendments with which we have managed to improve this law from above. For example, in Congress, we improve the conditions of women sportsmen; we improve the conditions of the LGBT collective in sport; we improve the conditions of disabled sportsmen; we manage to ensure that the rights of animals are also protected, perhaps not in the best way, but we have also done so; we improve the conditions of the environment in sporting events; and, in addition, we ensure that Catalan is protected in everything that has to do with the sport of our land. All this, and much more, has managed to do Republican Left in Congress. In the Senate, we have managed to protect and project the autonomous sports federations, something that was absolutely indispensable, just as they can compete at the international level without having to ask permission again from the Higher Sports Council. In Esquerra Republicana we militate in utility, as we always say, and everyone knows that we have done the impossible to improve this law that was presented to us with a great number of shortcomings that, I repeat, Esquerra Republicana has modified from above down. I would also like to send a message to the President of the Higher Sports Council, Mr Franco. In life, as in all its aspects, lying is not an option, and that must be made very clear. When Esquerra Republicana tells them that the CAR of Sant Cugat is underfunded, we don't say it by saying, it's the truth. Next Generation funds are one thing apart and not enough. The annual funding of the CAR must be increased, basically because the CAR de Sant Cugat, without going any further, is the high-performance centre that forms and takes out more Olympic athletes from all over the state. It's an installation that gets Olympic medals, if we don't give importance to this, what we're going to give importance to. I think that this is reason enough to take much more account of the CAR de Sant Cugat and I hope you will reflect on it. Finally, because I am not going to extend much longer, again I want to thank Senator Elisenda Pérez and the entire Republican Left team, who have worked from sun to sun to try to have a Sport Law as it plays. We show once again that in Republican Left we make things happen. It's no use shutting down in the band, as others do, the no ones, because in this way the only thing they're going to get the no ones to everything is that they're going to keep sucking the bench. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u446	Thank you very much. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u447	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, because we also believe that we do not have to prolong what each group has already put black on white a few weeks ago. Today, this law is expected to be passed and the Government's commitment to the European Union can be met in order to receive funding for sport aid. I would therefore like to reiterate that we are not going to extend. We believe that we do have to assess what has improved or not in its passage through the Senate. Some things have improved. It improves by giving more visibility to hobbies, by rescuing amendments that have been discarded in the Commission. It improves by giving more visibility to LGBTI people, and here I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to make a point. Violence against women has a name, a name that has been eliminated in an amendment, and is called macho violence. Gentlemen, do not buy the account of fascism, because they are paving the way for you. So, let him look at it. And it improves in terms of guidance and support for the re-entry of athletes after the end of their sports career. But it also gets worse in other respects, which we are not going to support, as in the amendment to Article 3, in which they eliminate part of the professionals in the sector. They have simply deleted a paragraph that includes all persons with a university degree in Physical Activity and Sport Sciences. My group cannot support amendments which are about sharing privileges. Nor can we support the amendment of the sixth final provision, because this reserve of professional activity, this reference to a single professional body representing only 39.57 % of professionals and not to the rest of the professional qualifications, such as sports psychologists, sports doctors, etc., is acting against the principle of law, by excluding many other professions active in the field of sport. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the PP, they are preparing an ERT for 182,000 workers in the sector, who represent 60.43%, according to the Ministry of Culture and Sport, and are going to be excluded. As an example, workers with vocational training studies. It is also foreseeable that this law will be invoked by the autonomous governments for failing to bring this section into line with their autonomous laws, including the Madrid Community. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, who do you work for? For families? No, no, For the transparency of the sector? No, no, We will not support its amendments to Articles 46 and 57, which eliminate the statutory obligation to establish the contractual link between the presidents of the federations and the League. I wonder what possible motive you have for promoting obscurantism. Transparency in institutions, and more where they receive any kind of subsidy, should be the basis of any law. The prevention of possible corruption also, but, of course, yours, as Mr. Cosidó said, arranges them by controlling the General Council Chamber of the Judiciary from behind. By the way, using State institutions to prevent compliance with the Constitution or the possibility of debate and sovereign decision-making in this House is also a form of corruption. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u448	Your Honor, I ask you, please, to stick to the matter. We're talking about the Sports Act, I remember.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u449	All right, President. Therefore, we ask the PSOE and the other political groups to bet on fair play, to bet on sport. If these amendments are adopted, this law, which is already being said that it is not the best law in the world, will be touched. It is the responsibility of all, and even more so of the left-wing parties, to ensure transparency, good governance of all institutions and, also, sport. The responsibility for the sector's access to European funds obliges us to pass this law. A law that already leaves out families with less purchasing power, in which many of your honourable Members voted against amendments that did favour them in this House. I therefore call on the progressive parties to at least contribute to transparency, to vote against the amendments and to vote in favour of sport. A lot of years to all and a lot of good holidays. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u450	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández-Lomana Gutiérrez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u451	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day for Spanish sport; a sad day because it is going to pass the worst Sport Law in the history of democracy in this country. [[Applauds]] Although today we must vote on the changes introduced by the Senate, they will allow me to emphasize our frontal rejection of the bill that is expected to emerge from this House. The Sport Bill was originally proposed as a tool to meet the current needs of the sport sector, since the current law dates back to 1990. A new Sport Law that was certainly necessary and was thus being requested by the different actors of the sport. However, instead of attending to your needs and requests, you have perverted the Law of Sport, using it for your purposes and those of your partners and friends. It has been developed with a harmful legislative technique and with clear and numerous shortcomings, as the experts have denounced. It turned out that what was behind were the European funds, and hence the haste to carry out the project was whatever it was, without taking into account the real needs and voice of the sporting world. They couldn't have done any worse. They have introduced gender ideology and the 2030 Agenda into the world of sport, incredible and disappointing. They have left the Administrative Court of Sport - the TAD - almost without competence, sticking to the wishes of certain sports federations for which the court was annoyed, a total irresponsibility. Let me put it this way: they've taken it out of the way. They have eliminated the possibility that clubs and sportsmen can appeal to the Administrative Court of Sport the sanctions imposed by sports federations, and have done so without giving the slightest explanation because, of course, it is difficult to explain to citizens that they are going to leave clubs and sportsmen helpless while giving more power to sports federations. [[Applauds]] It is for the Higher Sports Council to have the power to sanction directly the presidents of the sports federations or, rather, the power to sanction them, because to date it has been a rule to place complaints against the federative leaders in a drawer and look elsewhere. With this law you increase the power of the Higher Sports Council to continue to do so. They have also allowed autonomous sports teams to compete internationally at the official level, a new concession to the independence and separatist parties. [[Applauds]] I remind you that FIFA and UEFA at the time rejected the formal request made by the Basque Football Federation in December 2020 for full membership in both bodies. On the other hand - and this is serious - they have left absolutely unprotected women sportsmen, because in parallel they have processed the trans law; law that allows to change sex in the Civil Registry, so that a man can count as a woman and participate in women's sports competitions. [[applause]] Make it very clear. We are seeing that in Spain, because of the trans-autonomic laws adopted by you, some men are robbing women of their place in sport, their titles, their podiums and their prizes. Specifically, the pichichi of the Madrid Women's League is a 37-year-old male who identifies himself as a woman. For him to compete in the women's league, gentlemen of the PSOE, a woman has had to stay out but it seems that no one, neither do you, cares this fact. [[Applauds]] They are playing with the effort, constancy, discipline and illusions of girls, adolescents and women who see sport as a philosophy of life. All of this could have been saved, as proposed by VOX, by ensuring that when sports competitions were for sex, real sex, biological sex was taken care of. However, inexplicably, all the groups - the PP and absolutely all - less Citizens who abstained, voted against. Let's get this straight. [[Applauds]] VOX has stood alone defending women's sport. And not enough with all this, we have learned from the State's Official Gazette that the Council of Ministers, at the request of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Don Miquel Iceta - whom I do not see - recently adopted a real decree granting a grant of EUR 1 million to the Youth Sport Foundation for the development of an updated model of Spanish sport; a foundation belonging to the Higher Sports Council itself, once the draft Sports Law has been approved. In other words, do I first approve the regulatory law of a sector and then commission a study on what model should be reflected in that law? This, ladies and gentlemen, is unheard of and a veritable waste of public revenue. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, cancel this subsidy because it is an amount intended for useless work when the law is already being passed and is therefore an absolute expense. EUR 1 million to be earmarked for other purposes. In their consciences they will have been the creators of the worst Sports Law of our democracy; a law they have used to put their propaganda and content their partners rather than watch over the sports sector. A law that removes powers from the Administrative Court of Sport...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u452	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u453	I'm finishing up, President. ...and that does not protect women sportsmen from their trans laws. The Spanish sport will pay for this serious error, the Spanish sport does not deserve this treatment. I'm done, President. Our group hopes that all this can be amended after the electoral roll that is becoming increasingly clear that will occur. Our glorious Spanish nation cannot continue to allow the dislates of this present government. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u454	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández-Lomana. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u455	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You have created, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, many expectations in the face of the challenge of amending the Sports Act of the 1990s. Many others had already tried, but they did not. From the People's Party we believed, at first, in that challenge of reforming the sporting framework of the 1990s, which had been in force for more than thirty years. Frankly, I believe that a historic agreement could have been reached but, far from that great agreement and far from that consensus, you have done and have done what you have traditionally been doing, which is to surrender to the interests of the Pedro Sánchez Government. Therefore, the result we have is a Sports Bill that is wet paper and that I believe that its validity will not be beyond 2025, and that a government led by Alberto Núñez Feijóo will amend this Sports Act. [[Applauds]] I will summarise my speech on three key points for which we continue to maintain our negative vote on this opinion: the absence of a sports model, decafeinating sport justice and inequality in sport. The Minister of Sport, Mr.Iceta - who is missing again, this is already parliamentary absenteeism -, when he was the first secretary of the PSC, announced to us all that in Spain there were eight nations and that he had told them. [[Shows a press clipping]] This was in December 2019, before yesterday. Therefore, how is this minister, with competence in sport, going to be the one to lead and develop the model of Spanish sport? It's impossible. His vision of the eight nations in Spain has resulted in autonomous selections having the same treatment as the Spanish selection. Ladies and gentlemen, can you imagine what a shambles if in this world, in addition to the selection of Spanish football, he had competed with the Basque football team, the Catalan football team...? [[A honourable Member: That they would have won.- Rumours]] No, they would have lost. Don't worry. Can you imagine what a pain in the ass? It is that, above all, they are delighted, because they do not believe in the unity of the Spanish nation. [[Applauds]] It was that this weekend it was a blush to see how members of the government claimed, through social networks, with much more joy to Argentina than, on other occasions, to the Spanish selection. It's what makes you blush, gentlemen of the government. [[Applauds]] This Spanish Sports Act lacks a model, lacks a sports model. Today it was said that on 29 November a royal decree was passed to regulate, create and develop the new Spanish sports model: a million euros. The law was passed a month ago and a million euros were going to be spent on creating the Spanish sports model. This is in the Official State Gazette of 29 November. But what a way to throw away the money. Look, I'll give you four ideas and save you a million euros and leave it for free: withdraw the amendment that the international representation gives to the autonomic elections; approve the status of the athlete in six months and boost, moreover, measures to give them tax benefits; bet for sport as a tool for citizens to have better health, and help the private sector, which is the one that raises this country. I just saved them a million euros. Stop throwing the money like you're doing. [[Applauds]] Decafeinating sports justice. If we are in favour of having more or less powers in the Sports Administrative Court or a new arbitration system dealing with conflict resolution, it is useless if you are going to lower the penalties for the crime of embezzlement. It's no use, and I'll explain why. Because with their modification of the offence of embezzlement there will be presidents of sports entities, who handle public money or who have delegated public functions, who have already been convicted of embezzlement and will see their penalties reduced, or perhaps others who will be convicted of embezzlement will have a lesser penalty. Is this your sports justice? Because what I think is that this reduction in the penalties for the crime of embezzlement in the field of sport has names and surnames. Is your model of sports justice also to give money to companies of friends, socialist discharges, to make non-existent campaigns? Is that the model of sports justice too? [[Applauds]] Because they have not yet clarified where the 160,000 euros of an advertising campaign have gone to inform public funds in sport, and we only know that they have given it to a friendly company. And speaking of inequality in sport, they keep repeating - and they will now - that this Law on Sport brings great social advances for women's sport. But if this is so, why then do they pass the trans law? If this is so, why do they pass the trans law today? Because the trans law represents the biggest setback for women sportsmen of the last forty-five years in Spain. [[Applauds]] Thanks to its law, trans people in women's sports competitions will have many more medals and prizes over the rest of the women who compete. Therefore, there will be no equality in competitions, there will be inequality. And it's not that I say it, the feminist experts say it, the sports law experts say it, and former Socialist Party MPs say it. And so do the Members of the People's Party, who are an example for all of us, the Members, and who are a clear example of progress in feminism and social rights. [[Applauds]] Today, as a Member, I would like to express my gratitude for the work they are doing for today's women, but also for the girls and women of tomorrow, as parents I am.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u456	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u457	And I want to thank Cuca Gamarra, Marga Prohens, Marta González, Elena Castillo, Bea Fanjul, and so many members of the People's Party, because it is they who are marking the path of rights and freedoms in this country. [[Applauds]] By the way, pay attention to them, ladies and gentlemen, because they often agree with the criteria and are not mistaken.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u458	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u459	I'm done, President. This Sports Act, as it goes, is a mistake. It will be approved with an agreement with the PNV, with Bildu and with Esquerra Republicana, and will leave aside a great historical agreement that could have been achieved. Merry Christmas, because I think I'm the last one to talk. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u460	Thank you so much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Antón Cacho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u461	Thank you very much, President. Today, the Sports Act returns to the Senate. First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups of the Senate... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u462	Your Honor, just a moment. Please take a seat in your seats quickly and quietly, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-12-22-CD221222.u463	I would like to thank you for your work, your contributions and the agreements reached. In this sense, the processing of this law ends as it began, seeking dialogue and agreement, listening to everyone who has wanted to contribute: sportsmen, federations, leagues, sportsmen's union, amateurs, clubs, professional schools, autonomous communities, etc. They have all contributed, all the sensible and constructive proposals have been evaluated by the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and many of them are included in the text.
