ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. We begin today's session, 8 March, with a reminder of the effort and commitment of so many women and men who have allowed us to move forward in the constitutional mandate of effective equality, and with the awareness of how much remains to be done to bring equality to all women, so that we can enjoy it in normality without sacrifice or heroism, and to build a future without gaps or discrimination, consistent with the constitutional values and values proper to the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u2	In expression of those same shared values, today we are especially aware of the suffering and horror that the citizens of Ukraine are suffering. In defense of their freedom, their rights and in solidarity with all the victims - men and women, girls and boys - of the horror of war and the brutal invasion of their country, I propose to keep a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u3	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to include as the last item of the Thursday session the request of the Committee on Health and Consumption to extend the deadline for the conclusion of the work of the Sub-Commission for the purpose of analysing experience in regulating cannabis for medicinal use, until 30 June 2022. Is this how the House agrees? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u4	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Citizens Parliamentary Group to guarantee the right to a life worthy of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u5	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day. Today we can make Spain a better country and we can do so today, March 8, a day to advance in rights and equality. It makes me particularly excited to come up to this rostrum to defend a law that marks, without doubt, one of the most important milestones in my career as representative of Spanish citizenship; a text that condenses the work we do in Citizens, side by side, with civil society and for the equal rights and freedoms. I want to recall and highlight today, March 8, a similar advance. I remember that with the proposal of Citizens, with the unanimous support of the whole House, we managed to prevent women with disabilities from being forced into sterilization. I am putting this simile because I believe that, moreover, being today, 8 March, it is important to remember challenges and progress. The legislation, the initiative that we are presenting today, I think it can be one of the acts of political height today. We bring useful politics, politics with heart, with much humanity, to Congress, coinciding, as I say, with International Women's Day. I would therefore like to wish all women and men every day to defend the cause of equality on a happy 8 March. Liberals are fully aware that the law that we are going to vote on will improve the lives of women and also many men, of many people who care for other people in a state of limitation at a time when the dignity of every human being shines. It's the most important thing and it's more important than ever. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud, as I say to you, to defend this proposal for a law which aims to recognize the rights of people suffering from ALS and their families, people who want to gain access to a dignified life and who, unfortunately, suffer from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. I believe that politics with capital, politics at the service of the citizens has an important role to play in transforming and improving our society. This law, ladies and gentlemen, certainly does, without any excuse. This initiative, ladies and gentlemen, is born with the collection of signatures of my dear friend Jordi Sabaté Pons, in the year 2020, a patient of ELA. Far from focusing on his misery, Jordi did what he did is put on the public servant costume and help raise awareness among many Spaniards about the difficulties added to the suffering of the people who go through this calvary. [[Rumors]] This was the origin of this initiative, which has also been promoted by associations working close to the sick and families suffering from this unfortunate disease, many of whom are with us today. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u6	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Giménez. I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u7	I take the opportunity to say hello. Today we are joined by the Luzon Foundation and we want to thank you for your work, your dedication and your presence with us today, on this very important day for us. [[Applauds]] The defense of this initiative is dedicated to all of you - affected, family, caregivers, patients of ALS - for your struggle, your suffering and your courage to face this disease. You are an example and a source of inexhaustible inspiration for all of us. And the time has come to return to you all that you bring to our society. Dear friends, it is a pleasure and an honour to proclaim in this Parliament what we have been telling each and every one of you over time: Citizens take the demand of civil society with great sensitivity. As you all know, our president, Inés Arrimadas, who is currently on maternity leave, showed from the very first moment sensitivity, push and desire to take this initiative forward. Therefore, from here today I want to send a hug and a recognition to my president, Inés Arrimadas. We began to work on the initiative, as we say, with the help of civil society and presented a GNP to the Commission on Social Rights and Comprehensive Disability Policies, which was also unanimously adopted. After that, we have tabled this proposal in this plenary. It has not been an easy path for Citizens, because we had to face an unfair veto on the part of the Government. But we do mean that we continue to work after that veto, that we continue to work with civil society, that we try to make the importance of this legislation visible. We are therefore grateful that the Government has rectified. We are debating this legislation here today; it is therefore fair to acknowledge that the Government itself has rectified this initiative. ELA, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most cruel diseases the human being can face. Imagine: it involves seeing a loved one prostrated in a bed without being able to speak or move, breathing through a tracheotomy. Today there are approximately 4,000 people suffering from this terrible disease in our country. Three new cases of ALS are detected every day, because it is the most common neurodegenerative pathology in Spain after Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. Patients often see how their lives are deteriorating; their living conditions are deteriorating. The speed with which this disease advances is unusual and merciless. We therefore believe that it is important that, in the face of this appalling situation, which leads to very difficult living conditions, which also leads them to face major economic problems within their families and, in addition, gives them a life expectancy of three to five years, there is a social commitment to one of the major social challenges facing us in this House. That is why the policy of height, ladies and gentlemen, is aimed at resolving social issues such as those which, today, Citizens, in the hands of civil society, bring to this Chamber. It is a moral obligation in an advanced country. For our welfare system, it is to respond to this drama that strikes thousands of Spanish families and, moreover, it is to do so immediately. This law requires and provides dignified treatment and care for these patients and their families. It is imperative that the State guarantee them access to the services they need. It cannot be that patients with ALS and their families have to add, to the concerns of this disease and the abrupt deterioration that they live in their health, the anguish of not having financial resources to assume access to a dignified life during that time. It is very unfair that there are families who have to face selling their homes, getting mortgaged, simply to make life easier for the patient with whom they live in their home. I believe that the height of state at the moment is to give an answer. We can't leave these families at the stake. It's not progressive, it's not human, it's not fair. We can't leave families and patients at the stand. Let us remember that the approximate cost a patient of ALS has to bear is forty thousand euros a year. What family can afford this disbursement? In Spain there is money for anything else - for advisors and any other question - but then it turns out that, for a question of humanity, there is no? It's time to rectify. We have therefore presented this initiative; this initiative has a number of pillars. The first pillar is to recognize 33% degree of disability for ALS patients since diagnosis. This is going to change people's lives, because the administrative process currently lasts about a year. Unfortunately, there are families who receive help, recognition, when they have already died. It is not for the reason that this is the case; therefore, we want to change it. In addition, we want to introduce preferential care to ensure that the specialized technical and human resources are available to cover the needs caused by their disease, to include within the portfolio of supplementary transport and accommodation services both people with ALS and their families. In addition, they can benefit from the electric social bonus, specifically for those cases where due to the advanced state of the disease they need a use of mechanical, invasive or non-invasive ventilation. In addition, we know that there is a very hard stage of this disease that needs services at home. Therefore, they will have guaranteed access to physical therapy and specialist care at home for 24 hours. It is a law that also applies to other people suffering from chronic, neurodegenerative and autoimmune diseases. We hope that this initiative will be given a green light, an initiative that has no political colour, but needs the votes of this House; an initiative without ideology and which promotes the defence of human rights. No one, ladies and gentlemen, is free to stand in front of the ELA, and the least we can do is to ensure that those who face this very hard battle do not do it alone, that they do it by society, that society is concerned about their well-being, their dignity and the recognition of their rights, that it is above all. It would be a pride for all of us in this first step, in this consideration, to count on the unanimous support of this House, because I believe that we must send a message of unity, of brotherhood, of humanity, of solidarity to all concerned, to their families and to society as a whole. In the face of major social problems, ladies and gentlemen, what we have to do is not minimum agreements, but maximum agreements, and we have a great opportunity with this initiative. Future generations will look back and find on this day an important part of their legacy. Today is the day to make Spain better, to be proud, so that in our country we really talk about equality, justice and solidarity, but not only as hollow words, but we give meaning to those words. We have a great chance. Let us leave this plenary session with the certainty that we have taken a step forward and built a better Spain. For us Citizens, this is our only initiative at this session, ladies and gentlemen. We are a party that does not present an ideological law, does not present a law of confrontation, but what it presents is a law of social justice, a law committed to the improvement of our society, a law committed to the transformation of those issues that concern people's lives. That is Citizens in useful politics, and in that process of useful work, of high-level work, of legal modification to which I believe we all have to be committed, we hope to find the whole House at our side. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking to support the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to guarantee the right to a life worthy of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. As Mrs Giménez Giménez has explained with her usual solvency and tenacity, ELA in Spain suffer from the order of 4,000 people, data from the Luzón Foundation, whose representatives in the gallery also greet. It is a rapidly progressive neurodegenerative disease, characterized by a gradual loss of upper and lower motor neurons, which control the movement of the voluntary muscles. I agree with the need to provide a legislative impetus to help people who suffer from this disease so that they can develop a dignified life and, consequently, help them to overcome the many obstacles they face daily with a certain quality and higher life expectancy, obstacles that hinder their own already multiple physical and intellectual limitations that condition their social activity, dragging themselves to a great loss in their daily lives and to a great dependence. Therefore, it seems to me very appropriate to give the rank of law the attention to the sick ALS and their families, as well as the investigation of this serious and cruel chronic neurodegenerative disease. Ladies and gentlemen, in defence of the general interest and the aspects concerning the promotion and protection of the interests of persons affected by diseases of these characteristics, I would like to invite you to a virtual tour of the waste of resources that you have for years and continue to assume in Asturias everything relating to the State Reference Centre for the care of persons with neurological disabilities, built in the Asturian town of Langreo, the Credit, to which the perronist demagoguey baptized several years before putting the first stone of the building with the name of scientist Stephen Hawking, whose great label had to withdraw from the building because they lacked permission to do so. I am referring to this anecdote on account of the name of the great Hawking because it finished an eternal chain of misconceptions, in which you can find the most varied samples of the disinterest of different governments for neurological disabilities. It should also be noted that this state reference center in Langreo was not the product of the overwhelming public interest for this type of disease, on the contrary, it was driven by the popular initiative in the region of Nalón in pursuit of a socio-health equipment of these characteristics; an initiative embodied since the end of 2006 in concentrations, mass demonstrations and all sorts of calls for attention thanks to which the official insensitivity towards this type of disease was doubled. The citizen platform created to claim a state center, was found in the ministry, in the Principality of Asturias and in the city hall itself with closed doors, three elements united by a common characteristic: socialist governments. The popular pressure, I repeat, ended up overcoming political misunderstanding. An agreement was signed between administrations protected by the Imserso, and in 2009 the construction of the building began, whose works visited pompously in the pre-election campaign of the 2011 generals the then Minister of Health, Social Policy and Equality, Ms.Leire Pajín, of the government presided over by Rodríguez Zapatero, and Mrs.Carcedo I think it was part of such a spectacular visit. At that time, the imminent inauguration of the centre was proclaimed and yet, with the change of Government, the colossal corollary of the project and the execution of the works was highlighted. It took more than eight years, eight years, to solve important judicial, technical, administrative and budgetary problems and to put in service the facilities of the Credit in Langreo, but not for the care of neurological patients, but to attend from March 2020 to May 2021 the health emergency of the pandemic of the coronavirus COVID-19, and now we continue, again, in stand-by. Ladies and gentlemen, from the initial purposes for the care of people with neurological disabilities in Asturias to the reality of 2022, there are no remains left. The Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 is responsible for the Credine and, through the Imserso, should provide adequate staff and means for the care of the sick and their families. But the 2030 Agenda is the mechanism of the two thousand pretexts and thirty excuses to derive responsibilities and expenses from others, those who have asked in the concrete case of Asturias to add the center of Langreo to the relationship of multidisciplinary units dedicated to the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis such as those that already exist in Madrid and Barcelona or the one that has recently been opened to the public of the Centro de Specialidades Inocencio Jiménez, in Zaragoza, that will unite patients of the three major hospitals of the city. By the way, the Secretary of State, Mr Santiago, was in Asturias these past few days and spoke of everything but this; of what is within your competence, Mrs Castañón, he did not speak at all. Ladies and gentlemen, if this good citizens' legislative initiative is adopted and is completed, it will be a palliative to the well-known evanescent chatter about national strategies and other Monsergas progress with which the Government delays and delays, slows down and slows down normative progress on socio-health issues. And if they are an extraordinary expense, many more obstacles. See in this regard the trajectory for the creation of the asbestos victims' fund, which also started, as this afternoon, from a legislative initiative, in this case the Basque Parliament, approved by Congress and which is encountering great obstacles. The proposal for a law would not be necessary if the procedures for aid to the unit had already been simplified in Spain in which most of the autonomous communities accumulated incomprehensible delays if greater facilities had been provided for the availability of orthoprosthetic material or if the shortage of support products for the personal autonomy of patients had been alleviated, which could be resolved ipso facto via the Official State Bulletin. Finally - and again in support of the consideration of this law - I would like to stress that a fairly high percentage of people diagnosed with ALS do not have sufficient resources to deal with the disease, needs that are increasing as the process progresses and goes far beyond basic care. For that better Spain, I trust, Mrs Giménez Giménez, that this law will come forward. It will certainly count on my vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u11	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. The initiative they bring us is a very important issue. I am telling you that we are going to vote in favour, but the bill has major shortcomings that we will try to complete during the process. Then I will try to explain these shortcomings later. I say that it is important because, although the ALS has traditionally been considered a deadly disease and remains so, people affected by ALS today can enjoy a full life for years. And that requires instruments to help ensure that dignified life, both to patient people and to their families. In this sense, the environmental factors for this quality of life are determinant, and if this is in any disease, in this one specifically it is more decisive. Because attention to disability, especially social disabilities, to the needs of care, this is dependency, is of great importance. The ALS, along with its variants, is a disease, as you have said, of motor neuron. It is the most common among adults, it is the third neurodegenerative disease in incidence after dementia and Parkinson's disease and, in fact, in our context, in Euskal Herria, we have one of the highest rates in the state. According to data from Adela Euskal Herria, which is the federation of associations, there are 236 registered patients in the autonomous community and 43. It is an index of almost 11%, but what we bring here - and it is one of the elements that we want to contribute and what we want to insist on - is that the set of neuromuscular diseases, including ALS, is a very diverse set of diseases that share a number of peculiarities, which also generate very similar problems and therefore justify that we give them a unitary consideration. The study of epidemiology of neuromuscular diseases is still pending, there are no really reliable data, but it is estimated that, overall, we would have 28 cases per 100,000 inhabitants; that is, one in 3500 individuals could develop these diseases. Within these neuromuscular diseases, there are some more common, such as acquired polyneuropathy, which would affect some percent of the major population, but most of them are rare diseases, diseases with prevalences not exceeding 5 per 10,000. Although they are isolated and small frequencies, the sum of all of them reaches considerable numbers and the majority do not have curative treatment, so they usually have a chronic, progressive and severely disabling course. Therefore, it would be necessary, and that is what we are going to ask, that the law that comes out of this proposal also includes the set of neuromuscular diseases. We therefore believe that this proposal is short and deficient, because we agree that the proposed law contains four articles with reference to four laws that we share that are not adapted to the evolutionary nature of neurodegenerative diseases, to these diseases that, I repeat, are progressive in nature and highly incapacitating, but we understand that legislative change, if we are to do so, should not remain within the framework of a single disease, should cover a broader framework of diseases, should cover the set of neuromuscular and neurodegenerative diseases in which the ALS is included, a group of diseases that, as has been said, is very diverse, but in which many of them share a number of peculiarities that generate very similar problems and justify this unitary consideration. There is another element that we will put to your consideration, which is another of the limitations that your proposal does not contain, and it is that of the need to speed up and improve the levels of protection and reinforcement of incapacity on the part of Social Security. The recognition of disability is another of the slow aspects; it has a journey that becomes eternal for sick people that transition from the low to the recognition of disability. We would have to take advantage of this journey precisely so that Social Security would adapt to this situation; thus, we would have a recognition of disability, but also of disability, a fundamental element in this journey, and move forward in this way in the social security legislation that is completely closed and blind to this reality. In this regard, the Congress, last year, on 25 February, has already spoken about these circumstances. First, a non-legislative proposal was adopted urging the Government to modify the scales used to determine the degree of disability in the case of neurodegenerative diseases, and what was requested, precisely in line with what comes in the proposal, is an automatic recognition of the month of medical diagnosis. But also in this non-legislative proposal that we adopt in this House we call for the creation of a new type of disability: to adopt, within the framework of the Territorial Council for Social Services and the Autonomy and Unit Care Service, appropriate measures to respond to the requests of associations of patients with multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's, ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases. That is why, and because we believe that all possible means should be put in place to guarantee the right to life worthy of all people, we are going to vote in favour of this bill, but we propose that these circumstances be taken into account in these proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u13	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to extend the same greeting to the Luzon Foundation, which I know has worked on this subject and has also been with the lehendakari and other representatives of the Basque Administration to address this issue. And we are going to get into trouble, as is usually said, because it is Citizens who present us with this proposal of law to guarantee the right to a life worthy of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a request that is a repetition of another previous rejected by the Bureau of Congress, precisely for economic reasons, and that now, some references to article 68.4 of the law on the taxation of natural persons, it seems that its processing has been allowed. [[The Lord]] This proposal is aimed in particular at reforming several precepts. First, it proposes to amend the Royal Legislative Decree of the consolidated text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 4, in order to recognize the disability of persons diagnosed with ELLA even before its development and, therefore, before reaching the physical deficiencies or certain degree of disability that were previously required. Secondly, it proposes to amend article 3 (q) of the Law on Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Persons in a Situation of Unity, so that patients are treated preferentially, although - and we say this as a technical criticism, simply - we believe that, in an unfortunate and involuntary drafting, its terms exclude the rest of the major dependents of such preferential care. In addition, it contradicts the first measure, which qualified patients diagnosed with ALS as persons with disabilities, without specifying the express declaration of the situation of high dependence. Thirdly, he proposes to amend article 11 of the Basic Law Regulating Patient Autonomy and Rights and Obligations in the Field of Information and Clinical Documentation, including - and he says so - a model document of prior instructions in order to facilitate the correct expression of those situations on which he wishes to express his will. Without prejudice to the fact that this document already exists in other autonomous laws - as is the case of Euskadi in Law 11/2016 - we believe that this is a matter primarily of autonomous competence and that, in addition, it exceeds the competence of the State in Article 149.1.16.a, but we believe that we can work on this declaration in another way. And fourthly, it proposes to amend Article 3 of the Royal Decree on the consideration of vulnerable consumers, to which it adds an assumption that it is to have diagnosed ALS and to need invasive and non-invasive mechanical ventilation. This is done for the sake of access to the electric social bonus because the cost of electricity consumption necessary to maintain the mechanical ventilation and the people with ALS who need it for their survival is extremely high for them, or for their relatives, obviously. This law also makes a proposal to the competent administrations, both in the social and health fields. Thus, it speaks of a special preferential procedure for the recognition of the situation of dependence in the first additional provision, an update of the catalogue of services to promote personal autonomy in order to adapt it to the specific needs of people with ALS and, in particular, for access to the home physiotherapy service and specialized home care 24 hours; another to include in the framework of the Sectoral Conference of Social Affairs specific training for professionals of the unit on care of people with ALS; another concerning the health field, which consists of the inclusion in the portfolio of complementary services of the National Health System of the transport and accommodation of patients and family members of ELLA when they need to travel from one province to another; the reduction of the deadlines for the updating of the individual care programme for people with ALS; and, finally, to promote the evaluation of the Strategy on Neurodegenerative Diseases of the National Health System. It is a wide catalogue, a list of necessary facets, convenient and, moreover, that can be addressed in different frameworks, both legal and above all, we understand, regulatory, but that lead us to a double consideration. One, to point out both to society, to the foundation and to its lords also that my party is going to vote in favour of taking account of this proposal for a law, and it is going to do so with a positive, constructive and directed spirit, we want, to improve some errors, but above all, also some other clarifications that we believe are excessive even for the legislator himself. That is, that the imperfect functioning of public services should, where appropriate, be subject to criticism of the management of public administrations, not so much of legislative action and, much less, of those who lack competence, such as the legislator, the State, in many of these matters. Secondly - and it is worth criticizing the proposer, without prejudice to the absolute respect that deserves us for the extreme gravity of the ALS, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and the impact that it has on both the people who suffer it and their families and caregivers, and without prejudice also to the provisions of the seventh additional provision of this proposed law, which proposes the possible equalization of the proposals referring to patients ALS with other chronic, neurodegenerative and autoimmune diseases - we cannot ignore our assessment that this initiative is opting for a certain trivialization of the serious suffering that many people with diseases of a high degree of suffering-value redundancy -. Because access to these social health services must be widespread for anyone who may need it due to these neurodegenerative and neurorespiratory diseases; all those resulting from serious deficiencies that require a specialized and more intensive administration than usual. Not for this reason, although we understand that this attitude is not, of course, excessively acceptable - it is worth the qualification - we understand that it is necessary to address it from a global point of view and even the instruction to the public authorities in order to improve this system of social and health services for those suffering from serious diseases with serious consequences. That is why I have already announced that we will vote in favour of it and also - as has been said by another Member who has already spoken before me - to try to improve it in its content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u14	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. A year ago, in February 2021, a non-law proposal by the BNG was adopted at the plenary session of this Congress to recognize the minimum of 33% disability for people with ALS, multiple sclerosis and other neurodegenerative diseases. We believe that it is a matter of justice and humanity to deal with situations that affect the lives of hundreds, thousands of people, and that the public administration has not been able to deal adequately so far. Regrettably, a year later, the Government did not take into account this majority position of Congress and did nothing about it, despite recognizing the parties that make it up to it that the established bars do not match the specific characteristics of neurodegenerative diseases, which makes them unprotected and negatively affects the rights and equality that must be enjoyed by all people suffering from them. For this reason, the BNG will support this proposal of law to recognize with diagnosis 33% of disability for people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and to implement other support measures, both in the socio-health care and also addressing specific needs at home. As I said, we believe that they are not only fair but essential proposals. However, I would like to point out that some of the measures, such as the recognition of 33% of disability, should be applied - as proposed by the BNG in its day and as we will be doing through amendments - to all people with neurodegenerative or autoimmune diseases and not to leave it, as they do in the seventh additional provision, to the power of the Government. We really hope that this initiative will be accepted and that we will demonstrate that we are able to understand and respond to human needs and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u16	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u17	Thank you, President. Since it cannot be otherwise, from the PeCAT we will support without fissure the processing of this proposed law. We support speeding up the recognition of the status of persons with disabilities to people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the preferential care of people with ALS, as well as ensuring autonomy and respect for the will of the patient throughout the medical treatment. We also value making beneficiaries of the electric social bonus for people with ALS who need mechanical, invasive and non-invasive ventilation for their survival. As an advanced society that we are and guarantors of the welfare state, we have a moral duty to facilitate and promote any aid, cures and other human and financial support to those citizens who suffer from serious diseases, such as ALS, a neurodegenerative disease that causes a severe muscle deterioration that ends up leading to the death of those who suffer it. As the proposed law says, ALS sufferers are people trapped in a body that has ceased to function and the patient will need more and more help to carry out the activities of daily life, becoming totally dependent until he dies, usually by asphyxiation. We have a moral obligation to ensure a minimum quality of life for these people and their families, who suffer this cruel disease every day in silence. We cannot allow the sick of ALS to be caught up in euthanasia by the helplessness of the institutions. There is nothing more tragic than that someone who loves life prefers to die because he does not have the minimums to live in dignity. Everything in our hands must be done so that the sick of ALS will live decently until the end of their days. The economic progress of a country is of no use if the rights of the most vulnerable, in this case the sick, are not guaranteed. The bureaucracy and inefficiency of the system of subsidies and benefits is unforgivable, and more so in this case, when it comes to life and death. I would just like to add that PeCAT will ensure that the existing competition distribution framework is respected during the course of this initiative. In the same vein, we reiterate the need to accompany the expansion of the service portfolio of the corresponding transfer of economic resources to the autonomous communities. And, finally, a strong embrace and my best wishes for all the sick of ALS. I very much hope that science will find a cure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u18	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u19	Thank you, President. It was Jano Galán, a man who wanted to be extraordinary and was extraordinary, who introduced me first to ELA, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. That disease became his teacher and that of all those around him, trapped in a dream of avoiding the inevitable. Today, she lives in the body of another extraordinary person, Juan Carlos Unzué, the exporter of Barça whom I met thirty-three years ago. I admired him as a sports journalist, but I still admire him more today as an ALS patient for his strength, determination and example. We are going to vote in favour of taking this law into consideration, which we should all defend, without exception, because it wants to do justice and because we are talking about a disease that does not waste time, steals it. I want to explain, because Juan Carlos Unzué has given me permission, that he, who played as a goalkeeper for so many years, this time has scored a wonderful goal for the team of 4000 wrestlers who do not give a ball for loss. JuanCarlos and Fundació Miquel Valls have concluded an agreement to modify the care protocol for patients with ALS. From Josep Maria Argimon's Saluting Councillor - I have never seen a goalkeeper so delighted to fit - the following improvements will apply, which I want to share because they certainly serve today's purpose. The figure of the referent physician has been created for the ALS patient, who is in contact with all hospitals and primary care centers and who at the same time can already assess what type of disability is most favorable to the patient and activate it. If it is temporary incapacity, for twelve months, or a permanent incapacity to start receiving an IRPF-free pension. Now let's go with what depends on this law. What would be desirable would be to achieve for the ALS the degree of dependence beyond the 33% they propose. In Catalonia, those diagnosed with ALS are prioritized, but, law in hand, it is not possible to anticipate the degree of dependence the patient will be in in a very predictable future. One idea is to automate the process by marking the maximum degree after a year, for example, and if there is a faster progression, a review is made on the way. As for the caregiver budget, although it is an economic competition that depends on Social Rights, the aid is implemented at the municipal level, and that is a problem because there is normally no budget. It should be assumed by the state, that's what we consider. These are some ideas, some points. We will have time to continue working on this law, which, I am sure, will receive the unanimous support of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u20	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u21	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. Today is the time to take up the sacrifice actually made by those organizations and families, such as the Luzon Foundation or the Miquel Valls Foundation itself, who are somehow working all these years and is the way to make sense and shape it through a just law. I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law to guarantee the right to a life worthy of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Without wanting to go into detail about what a neurodegenerative disease of this team involves, with a fatal diagnosis and without effective treatment or cure, it is important to highlight, as the same proposal for a law in its explanatory statement points out, that behind Alzheimer's and Parkinson's is one of the most frequent neurodegenerative diseases in the Spanish and other states. Therefore, it affects a significant number of people who, in a very rapid process of degradation of neurons that precisely control the movement of the musculature, come to live between 3 and 5 years as much as a gradual process of degradation of health. Therefore, in recent years the patient's own conditions are in a very advanced condition of the disease. It is true that at this time the speed with which the disease progresses is precisely a frontal collision with a system of recognition of the right to benefits and aid that is overly bureaucratic and slow, it has even been said that between the request for an assessment of the degree of dependence and the resolution of the file it may take more than a year. Look, in an average lifespan of three years, one year is simply lost in bureaucratic procedures. We don't do any favors not only to the patient, but to the family that takes care of the patient. We therefore welcome any legislative measure that would not only speed up and strengthen recognition of the degree of disability, but also the immediate consideration of vulnerable persons, in the sense of not only health, but also social, in order to be able to receive all health care, but also all social assistance, which is precisely what is reflected in some of the points of this law itself. In fact, although progress is being made, we believe that little is said - not in this law, but in general - about the impact of this terminal disease on the nearest family environment, the one that takes care of the care and receives or assumes all the economic and social pressure that involves having such a terminal family. If this is approved, I would like to tell you that we will be very attentive to the competition framework and also to funding, as there are several administrations involved in the treatment and cure of this disease. To conclude - I will not go any further because many elements have already been repeated - this law is opening the debate - something that is important to us - on the need to review and update the mechanisms and criteria for recognition of the degree of disability that currently apply to people who request it, as it is not working properly. I mean, honestly, it's not working properly. I think it is also important to highlight the need to start, perhaps, defining a catalogue of diseases that would allow the direct allocation of the highest degree in the first assessment, especially in those precisely where it is already known what their degree of evolution will be. Therefore, this specific law speaks simply of the sick of ALS, but note that there is a much more in-depth debate that implies what would really be the social health services - health and social - about those people who have a disease with a clear dependence behind. We believe that this law is about moving forward, starting to open a melon that I think it was necessary to open. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u22	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u23	Thank you, President. Good evening, good evening. First of all, our appreciation for the people and families affected by ALS or other neurodegenerative diseases and a greeting to the representatives who are with us today. Their claims are more than just and their needs are not adequately met by the social and health system. Therefore, we will not oppose the handling of this bill, although we sincerely believe that its content and focus are not the right ones. People affected by ALS and their families do not need any more laws, what they need is to comply with current laws and receive the necessary support and care in a timely manner. The current Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 has revealed with complete transparency a reality of the system for personal autonomy and dependence: it does not arrive in time to provide the necessary support to hundreds of thousands of people. Also, the disability assessment procedure is slow, inadequate to the current concept of disability and does not respond to the needs of people with rapidly evolving diseases. Having said that, it seems to us that what this bill raises is not the right thing to do to respond to these problems. I will point out a few points. This proposal proposes to amend the general disability law with regard to the assessment of disability. You should know that the Ministry of Social Rights has finally released the approval of a new disability assessment scale that updates and modifies the procedure. This update has been stuck since 2009. Minister Belarus presented the draft of the royal decree for the recognition of disability and assessment in the territorial council in December 2021 and, following the contributions of the autonomous communities, a text was adopted that is about to be passed on to public information. This text allows for urgent processing in three months for certain situations. We understand that this is the way to respond to people affected by these diseases and not what they propose of a disability rating based on a medical diagnosis. I would like to recall that organizations of persons with disabilities have fought a lot against this pathological concept of disability, and the international convention on disability demands that that concept be put an end to. On the other hand, with regard to the proposal to amend the law on personal autonomy and dependence, it is true that there are terrible deficits in the implementation of the law. Again, this Ministry of Social Rights has had to address, together with the autonomous communities, a very serious situation, the result of years of harmful policies and cuts perpetrated by the People's Party in the previous crisis, since 2012. In order to alleviate this, the current ministry initiated a plan of dependency shock, adopted in 2012, in dialogue with the autonomous communities, which are competent in the implementation of this law. In one year an additional 100,000 people have been incorporated into the system and the waiting list has been reduced by 42,000 people, also reducing management times. In addition, the Territorial Council is currently evaluating urgent procedures in the provision of support and in certain serious or rapidly evolving conditions, and in some communities, in the exercise of their powers, they are already being implemented. Much remains to be done because the structural problems generated since 2012 cannot be solved, unfortunately, in a few months. Finally, I refer to the areas of competence discussed here. The administrations obliged to assess personal circumstances and to manage services and services in this area are essentially the autonomous communities. Despite - I wanted to point out - the complex context in which we find ourselves, thanks to the great work of the Ministry of Social Rights, the governance and attention to dependence is being more consensual and respectful with the autonomous competences than in previous years. Only five agreements were reached in the Territorial Council between 2014 and 2019, and between 2020 and 2021 there were 24 agreements with virtually no votes against. In this context, returning, as you propose, to policies that establish unilateral obligations from the State without the necessary autonomous consensus does not seem desirable and can frustrate legitimate expectations. We are radically in favour of improving the lives of those most affected by the malfunctioning of protection systems. Therefore, we will continue to support the activity and work of this ministry in order to advance the implementation of the laws, supporting the autonomous communities, which have the competences. We will always continue to bet on the solidity and improvement of public services, health, social services, decent income, housing and education policies. We would love to see in the rest of the parliamentary groups the same interest in public systems of protection for the whole population so that they can also deal with specific situations that are particularly serious as we are talking about. We will support the consideration of this bill and try to improve it in its processing so that it does not incur the errors raised here, so that it points to the real problems and, ultimately, what we are looking for, to guarantee a decent life to which people with ALS and other similar diseases are entitled. So we'll support her. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u24	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u25	Thank you, President. 'I can't remember what it feels like to be able to walk, move your arms, talk, eat, drink and breathe. I just remember and I value that I'm still alive. I can see, hear, feel, and just because of those simple things I'm happy.' Thank you, Jordi Sabate, for your example of life and for representing so many who, like you, demonstrate every day that you are indispensable to a society that often forgets the things that really matter. [[Applauds]] And it's just that today, thanks to you, we're partying in Congress. Today, thanks to you, we make a small parenthesis between so much suffering and so much bad news to celebrate life. Today we have the opportunity to take a step forward so that assisted suicide is not the only thing that those who govern us can offer to the sick of ALS to alleviate their suffering and that of their families. Everything is thanks to you, Jordi, thanks to you and to the signatures that you collected and that have made it possible for us today to discuss this bill to guarantee the right to a life worthy of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. How sorry I am that you can't be here with us today as you wished! How many barriers we still have to break down! [[Applauds]] A dignified life. How well these two words sound together, especially after having passed in this very House a shameful law of euthanasia that despises the dignity of the lives of those suffering from a disease, offering them death as the only alternative. It is paradoxical that today we are witnessing how the very people who argue their support for this terrible law, in the name of individual freedom, are now talking about helping people with ALS live instead of helping them die. The truth is that we would like to think that it is because, at least, they have understood that one cannot exercise his freedom to die when the only alternative offered to him is death. Today we would like to think, today we would like to be delighted with the possibility of dreaming that the decision to present, at last, this law has not been circumstantial, that it is a decision of silence, a decision that involves a change of mentality, a change that has placed the life and dignity of the people in the center and that, therefore, they have now understood that resources cannot be spared to those who have the courage to fight against an incurable disease, to those who refuse to throw away the towel, to those who do not want to give up living to the last breath. If this was happening, if this really was happening, it means that the struggle and the unpayable example of heroes like you, Jordi Sabate, and like Juan Ramón Amores, JuanCarlos Unzué, Toni García, Francisco Luzón and so many others, since anonymity, have not been in vain and that today opens a door to hope not only to the sick of ALS, but also to all the sick who with other different pathologies but also cruel, neurodegenerative diseases and other rare diseases, also need extraordinary resources to live dignifiedly and not to pose an unbearable economic burden for their families. [[Applauds]] Because it cannot be that in the face of a deadly disease and a hundred per cent disability there is not enough public support. It cannot be that the survival time of a patient is determined by his or her economic capacity and that a well-attended ALS patient with the necessary resources lives better and has more life expectancy than another who does not have them. Ladies and gentlemen, the average cost for ALS patients to cope with their illness is between €40,000 and €60,000 per year. That means that the vast majority of these patients cannot face it and this circumstance is inhuman. It is inhuman for someone to have to face such a test with the added anguish of not being able to have the resources to do so. The same is true of other diseases of invalidants and mortals, in many cases of children. These people need caring staff who in advanced stages must be qualified health personnel to attend 24 hours a day. These people need to adapt their homes, need assistive devices, articulated beds, wheelchairs, communication systems; they need treatments and care that are essential to be able to stay alive: aspiration, medication and artificial feeding by gastric tube, respiratory therapy, not to mention the bill of light, which has become a real headache for those who have to stay connected to a machine 24 hours a day. It cannot be, ladies and gentlemen, that only those who have resources can afford to live better and longer. In an advanced society the survival of the sick cannot depend on their purchasing power, we cannot afford it. The State has an obligation to ensure with its resources the survival of those who struggle to live, because there is no other cause that justifies it any more, and not a single euro should be spent on anything else that is not indispensable until there is only one person who needs help to survive, not a single euro while there is only one sick person who is not cared for as it deserves, because a dignified death cannot be given to those who have not been given a dignified life. [[Applauds]] And, of course, we cannot allow a single patient with ALS or any other serious illness to let go because he feels that it is an insurmountable expense for his family or a burden for those who leave everything to care for them. We cannot afford to spend months until these diseases are diagnosed, delaying recognition of disability, dependence and incapacity for work, because time in a disease with little life expectancy is the most valuable thing these people and their families have. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all live as a collective failure that the first victims of euthanasia in Spain have been sick of ELA, because we will never know if the circumstances of having had no support from your Government conditioned the decision they took. We will never know what he would have decided to have known that neither they nor their families would lack resources to live decently to the end. [[Applauds]] Today it is evident that you were mistaken by precipitating your law of euthanasia; that the good way was this, just the one we started today; that in the face of the reality of the suffering that occurs at the end of a person's life with an incurable disease, the human and the just is to do what we are doing today, to help live instead of helping to die, because that is what we are claiming from those who have inspired this law, that we help them to live. And if they do not surrender, if they overlap with their tragedy, if they are able to transform an evil into such a great good and give meaning to their sickness and suffering, we cannot fail them. They, with their struggle, have taught us the way today and we, as politicians, have an obligation to follow it, because there is nothing that can make more sense of what we do. Ladies and gentlemen, this case deserves this bill to come forward unanimously today, and our wish is that it be so and that from now on, not only the sick of ALS, but all those who need it have the resources to live a dignified life. And I do not want to come down from this rostrum without paying a small tribute, on behalf of my entire parliamentary group, to all those who fight for their lives and their families, for their unpayable example, for teaching us with their courage how insignificant most of our problems are, for making us regain faith in humanity and for showing us that life is a treasure in all circumstances, that it is a gift that cannot be left unopened, that it is a light that always shines and that we must put it in a place of honor so that everyone can see it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u26	Thank you, [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u27	Good afternoon. Let me say today, March 8, that we demand caregivers, professionals or family members, as a key figure in care and so many times forgotten. I want to greet the president and the members of the Luzon Foundation, Jaime and all the people who are with us today. I want to begin by expressing the support of the People's Party for people with ALS and I want to acknowledge the families, who give the battle every day with more will than resources. I would also like to thank you for the work that organizations, associations and foundations have been developing. [[Applauds]] And why are we here? We are here because the Autonomy and Unit Care System has proved ineffective because of its rigidity and model. Sixteen years has passed the law of dependence, which was born devastated because it had no economic memory. There is a lack of government funding for the autonomous communities, with the budget effort being placed on them, which accounts for 70 or 80 per cent. There is one fact that is really serious: in Spain 130 people die a day on the waiting list, one person every eleven minutes; last year 46,671 died on the waiting list of the dependency. And I wonder, how many of them were diagnosed with ALS? All of them were left out by the Government's shock plan, not in time. In Spain there are more than 300,000 people on the waiting list waiting 400 days. It's totally unacceptable. This law that we are discussing is better, fragile, lacks rigour in both health and social aspects and remains short, and I will set an example because it only proposes to reduce the time limits in the recognition of the situation of dependence, of the degree. This is insufficient, because the time limits for recognition of the right are really short, so that they can access the remedy, the service or the benefit they need as soon as possible. People with ALS cannot wait for more than a year for them to be recognized their right, their right. Minister Belarus said that in a year she would reduce the waiting list by 60,000 people and actually leave 21,193 in the open. In conclusion, ALS, being a cruel disease that has no cure, is a reality ignored in the system of dependence. Patients with ALS and their families cannot remain an ignored reality; they must be a priority on the agenda. We are also here because the Strategy for Neurodegenerative Diseases, approved by the People's Party in 2016, or the ELA's approach plan, approved in November 2017, according to associations, scientific societies and autonomous communities, have not been implemented diligently. Time has had the government, since June 2018, to have executed it; even the approach of the ELA in Spain today would be a little, at least, better. We are here because, despite the Government's vetoes of this text referring to the lack of budgets, common sense has prevailed. And I would like to point out that the vice-president of the Bureau, Ana Pastor, argued that the budget was not sufficient reason to veto this initiative. It turns out that there is money to support twenty-two ministries and not for the ALS, that there is money to rescue Plus Ultra and not for the ALS, that there is money to plug convicts into the ministries and not for the ALS, or that there is money to make up the government and not for the ALS. [[Applauds]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, unethical. And what there are are European funds, and we ask to equip with these funds the approach of the ALS and also other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson and Alzheimer's. And we are here because the president, Pedro Sánchez, tweeted two years ago saying that he was committed to Jordi Sabate to continue working from the government to improve the diagnosis, treatment and life of the sick and their families; one more posture of this president. And I take advantage to thank you, Jordi; even if you are not, thank you for your struggle, courage and courage. [[Applauds]] And we are here because the patients of ELA and their families, the foundations, the associations motivate us, we are inspired to advance in the fight against this disease. Therefore, it is urgent to make decisions and to provide a rapid and effective response to the more than 4000 people with ALS. It is a highly disabling disease within a short period of time. They are people who move from a normal situation to a situation of complete dependence, who require 24-hour care and therefore deserve a dignified life. Time for them is vital. For us, too. We don't have time to waste. We must move forward with determination, speed, speed, because the degree of dependence or disability is obtained according to how a disease or disorder affects the autonomy of people to carry out basic activities of daily life. This determines their support needs. As a party, we call for the promotion of an urgent procedure without delay and without excuses, specific urgent access to the assessment of dependence and disability, an urgent way of obtaining the degree of dependence and disability, as well as urgent access to the services, services and resources that, together with multidisciplinary teams and better social and health coordination, will ensure comprehensive care. This is the way. We will vote in favour of this initiative, despite the fragility of the proposed law. The People's Party is rigorously and seriously committed to working to improve the text. But we will work alongside all the actors involved, people with ALS, their families, caregivers, patient associations, public and private health and social systems, with researchers, pharmaceutical companies and, of course, with the administrations ultimately responsible for coordinating and implementing these actions. It's over. The People's Party today acquires a responsible commitment to people with ALS and their families: we will not leave you and your families alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u28	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andrés Añón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u29	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, on behalf of my group. the Socialist Group, I want to send a greeting to the people who accompany us here this afternoon, in the House, and also through the Congress channel, like our dear colleague José Ramón Amores, Mayor of La Roda, Albacete,, who represent all the people who suffer from ALS in our country and their families. [[applause]] From this rostrum, we express our appreciation to you for your strength, especially in these years of pandemic. The effort that has required all of us to control and isolate the virus has undoubtedly been much greater in its case. You are an example of resistance and overcoming. I am not going to reply to the honourable Members who have referred to the Socialist Government or to the useful policy, the facts alone. You, ladies and gentlemen, belong to groups that have voted no to this year's general budgets, which devote more than 6 billion to comprehensive health protection and almost 2900 to care for dependency. Socialists and socialists belong to the political force that created the National Health System and that promoted the law of personal autonomy and the system of care for dependence; the political force that today reverses the cuts of the People's Government, which have done so much damage to our health and care for dependence, as in Asturias, Lord Martínez Oblanca, which left empty the center built of reference, center built by socialist governments, and which today is recovering to serve people suffering from ALS. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Nor am I going to enter into the content of the proposal, a proposal which suffers from serious constitutional shortcomings and which is much better in its legal technique. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you have not worked hard to take account of the yes, but our group will vote in favour because we have a firm commitment to work for people suffering from ALS and their families; a commitment that reaches all diseases, in particular those that generate dependency, minority, neurodegenerative, immune and chronic diseases of high complexity. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain 54% of the population live with a chronic disease, a disease that is not cured and that conditions their daily life and that of their families. Knowledge of the disease is essential to cope with it; knowledge provides certainty to patients and gives safety to clinical teams on the diagnosis and effectiveness of treatments and also encourages research. But none of this is happening at the moment in the ELA. It is still included in the National Register of Rare Diseases. Your early diagnosis is very difficult and can spend up to fourteen months between the onset of the first symptoms and the confirmation of the diagnosis. For now, there is no proven treatment for ALS and research is essential. To promote research, the Government of Spain has undertaken the reform of the Law on Science, Technology and Innovation, which is already in parliamentary procedure, to improve the scientific career and ensure stable and growing public funding for research, such as the funding already provided by the PERTE Santé de Vanguardia to improve production capacities and innovation in medicine. These opportunities are born out of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, which opens a window to progress, a window to hope, reinforcing with 4100 million the state system of science, of which 527 go to health research. Most of these 527 are intended to increase public funding for research, led by the Carlos III Institute of Health; an institute that already has 289 million for health research this year; a major leap that goes beyond the cuts of the People's Party, which caused that budget to decrease by 26%, health research. And they are not figures, ladies and gentlemen, they are opportunities to find solutions such as those needed today by the sick and the sick of ALS. See if it is important that the Carlos III Institute, in two years, has mobilised 4 million euros for the research of the ELA and the general budget of the State contains 2.4 million for the development of the strategy. Research, yes and support, support so that no one has to face dependence alone. For this reason, the 3.6 billion of the dependency shock plan, to bring attention to dependency into line with the real needs of each person, and especially those who need greater support and urgency, such as people with ALS. Let me finish with a few words from Pasqual Maragall. Pasqual Maragall said: I want to help defeat the disease. Nowhere is it written that it is invincible. A future without Alzheimer's is possible. This afternoon we will all work to make a future without HER possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u30	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u31	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies of the Basque Parliamentary Group for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u32	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the Spanish State is a parliamentary democracy based on democratic legitimacy and the representative character of the General Courts, for in the theoretical system of political liberalism sovereignty is imputed to the people as a substitute for absolute monarchy or absolute monarchy. [[The lady]] In this way, the system is based on parliamentary centrality, thus having the General Courts a pre-eminent position vis-à-vis other constitutional bodies in the relations of weights and counterweights between the different powers of the State with their own powers and in the procedures consistent with the parliamentary form of government in streamlined parliamentaryism. For this reason, article 66.2 of the Constitution assigns to the General Courts, as representatives of the sovereign people - in fact, to each of their Houses, although in an imperfect way, because constitutional bicameralism is asymmetrical - three nuclear powers of the State, in addition to others that mentions the Constitution: legislative power; the power to approve budgets, which implies control of all public financial activity and of the economic and social project of the Government that the budgets represent, and together with these two powers - legislative and the approval of budgets - the power to control the action of the Government, which is not derived from the relationship of trust that the Congress places in the President of the Government, through the investiture, so that this name to its Government and implements its political programme, but directly from the form of the Parliamentary Government, as declared by the Constitutional Court in its ruling 124/2018, against the Government's claim in functions of the People's Party to evade the control of this Congress before the investiture. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative presented by the Basque Parliamentary Group, the Basque Nationalist Party, wants to come to perfect the parliamentary system in one of its most relevant and consistent functions of representative democracy, which is the role of the Congress of Deputies to control the government. Although the Constitution does not define what this control consists of, it does establish its instruments through Title V, the relations between the Government and the Courts, coming from the regulations of the Chambers, Congress and the Senate, to perfect and regulate them in a singular way. Thus, the action to seek information and assistance from the Government and its members; to demand the presence of members of the Government, authorities and officials; the submission of inquiries and questions for which a minimum weekly time is to be established - and is expressly stated in the Constitution -; the motions in which the House expresses a position in relation to some competence of the Government, and the non-legislative proposals, which without being jus cogens, an imperative right, as well as the motions, the Rules of Congress provide for them to implement the function of impulse and control and also that of debate between the parliamentary groups on a particular matter. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the control mechanisms at the disposal of the House, as the Constitutional Court points out, are varied, being the function of polyhedral control, since they can exhaust their effects in their own exercise, such as, where appropriate, requests for information, or become instrumental and serve as an assessment or trial for parliamentary groups, either for their legislative work, or at the time of the adoption of budgets, to control in themselves the Government or for new initiatives of impulse and control or even for the implementation of instruments of political responsibility, including the motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already pointed out, the initiative which we are presenting for debate and which we trust will be taken into consideration, proposes, through the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the House, that it is the rule which develops the instruments of control established by the Constitution, the obligation of the Government to forward to the House in the first working month of each session a detailed report on the status and degree of compliance with each of the motions, non-legislative proposals and resolutions adopted by the House in plenary or in the Commission at the previous session, and that in the fortnight following the entry into the register of that report which referred to them, a representative of the Executive Committee should appear before the Committee on Rules of Procedure to explain that report and to respond to the questions and requests put to it. As I said to you, the initiative presented to you by our parliamentary group is to perfect the parliamentary system in one of its most relevant functions, which is the function of control by the Government on the part of the House, so that certain initiatives that are adopted, such as the non-legislative proposals that it said to them, motions and resolutions, even if they are not in the nature of legally binding because they are not a tax or necessary right, their mandate, as an expression of a desire by the House for the Government to act within its powers in a certain sense, may also be subject to political control over their degree of compliance, both as a thermometer of the Government's credit in the House and for citizens to know through opposition groups and to form a contrasted judgment on the sort of initiatives in which parliamentaryly channelled society's demands are often reflected. Because we must not forget, as the lawyers of the House have written, that while the exercise of the legislative power of the House is a manifestation of the principle of majority ownership of proportional systems, the exercise of the function of control over the government is the natural sphere of opposition, linked to the fundamental right of passive suffrage through the remedy of amparo to remedy hypothetical violations of that parliamentary function of control. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are presenting is going to alleviate a deficit in our current Rules of Procedure, along the lines of what other parliaments, such as the Basque Parliament, have adopted, and moving beyond what the Senate has regulated in this respect.In its Article 178, by which the Government has to account for the degree of compliance with the approved motions - which are our non-legislative proposals - although not through other initiatives and not necessarily through a report as proposed in our initiative. It is a deficit that we hope can be overcome in this legislature, since in the past it has not been able to solve despite various attempts and various parliamentary groups included in broader proposals for reform of the Rules of Procedure or in more specific initiatives. Nor did it come to fruition that the plenary of this House, in the XII Legislature, took into consideration an initiative of the Basque Parliamentary Group with the same content as the present one, which could not, as I said, come to a good end by dissolving the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, in advance of the Courts while the period of amendments is being submitted. [[The Lord]] President - and I am finalizing this - ladies and gentlemen, it is time for this important lack of our parliamentary system in the decisive role of government control. This will result in improving the democratic quality of the institutions by incorporating best practices of weights and counterweights, checks and balances; it will result in improving public transparency and better training of public opinion on the functioning of Parliament, the Government and relations between them; and, ultimately, in giving all opportunities to alternation in political power, which is the raison d'être of liberal democracies in plural societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u33	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. It has already been recalled that this is not the first time that the Basque Parliamentary Group has brought an initiative to the plenary of Congress to reform its Rules of Procedure for the parliamentary control of agreements without force of law. This initiative is important because it promotes a substantial improvement in favour of a key democratic institution, which results in greater role and efficiency in the implementation of agreements, motions for resolutions, motions and proposals that are put forward, debated and adopted in this House. Looking back at some background, I have seen that this reform has already been proposed for at least several legislatures, specifically in March 2017 - just now four years ago - has already been proposed, and then it was taken into consideration unanimously, although in the subsequent process it was not able to complete its approval. For the second and last time, at the request of the same parliamentary group - then defended by its spokesman, Mr Esteban - it was debated in this House in the drafts of the failed XIII Legislature, in September 2019. I was not here on those dates and was not a participant or witness in that debate which, so far as I could see in the corresponding Journal of Sessions, had moments on, with a final vote also quite expressive: 314 votes in favour and 24 against. That is, as in 2017, it was also taken into consideration, although a week later the State Official Gazette published the dissolution of the General Courts and the initiative fell. Ladies and gentlemen, the control by the House of parliamentary agreements without the force of law is fundamental to a serious democracy, to strengthen the guiding functions of Congress and to revalue the work of the members of this House both collectively, through their groups, and individually. In both cases, it is key to respect and continue the work that Members are doing in the interest of the general interest and also on specific aspects of citizen life. In short - and I stress this - a regulatory reform in the line that is being proposed here is good, look where it is being looked at. Regrettably, if we look at the future of these four decades of constitutional history, we can see how, over time, the implementation of political initiatives to guide the Government has gradually been undermined, for which a parliamentary group or even a single Member has obtained the support of the plenary or a committee for a non-legislative proposal or a motion. If a government, that of now or those who come successively, disagrees with the fulfilment of what is democratically decided here, if this drift that makes dent in the democratic quality of the functions of Congress is not corrected, then another must be added: the theatrical one. It is difficult to explain to a citizen or a group of citizens who have put their hopes in order to solve a problem in the resolutions that are taken here in Congress, which decline all hope because much of what here, in plenary or in the Commission, is approved, especially when proposed from the opposition seats, is reduced to little more than a stage for public opinion, at best, to draw its conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for regulatory reform seeks to deepen the executive's subordination to the agreements of one of the two Chambers in which national sovereignty is deposited, because we already know that governments are very little held accountable. By the way, the other House, the other parliamentary institution, the Senate, has incorporated similar accountability on the part of the Government in its Rules of Procedure through section 178.2. In many autonomous parliaments - Mr Legarda quoted the Basque Parliament, but this is also the case with the General Assembly of the Principality of Asturias - there are similar mechanisms which require the respective governments to report regularly on the degree of compliance with mandates and agreements. However, Congress does not have that regulatory tool, hence the need to strengthen, improve and revitalize the national Parliament, where the popular will is deposited. The reform, in short, also provides an opportunity to stimulate and make greater use of the activities of citizens' representatives. It is a question of transparency and an issue of efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative that this government, which presides over Pedro Sánchez, adjust its attitude towards the General Courts, and not only with the setting of accounts relating to non-legislative proposals or motions adopted by this House. There is an attitude, the most important one, the most disturbing one, which should re-adjust motu proprio, urgently and inexcusably, without being imposed on it by regulation, in order to stop stealing the legislative function that belongs to the General Courts. We are before the Government which, by contrast, has made more use and abuse of the real decrees laws, both in quantity and in content, and also not always with respect to the magna charter; it is enough to recall the different varapales received by the Constitutional Court declaring unconstitutional, at the request of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the successive states of alarm that, since spring 2020, restricted the rights of the Spaniards through inadequate mechanisms. If the Government had acted in this way on important issues, it was not surprising that it had failed to fulfil the guidance function of Congress expressed through non-legislative proposals or motions. I know that from my own experience. In any case - and I conclude this - this proposal for regulatory reform affects new and better mechanisms to control another route of habitual escapism, as we know, when questions and questions are raised, both oral and written, which are answered by the Government on many occasions with evanescent formulas that do not address the substance of what is being raised. In view of the usefulness, the improvement pointed out by Mr Legarda, the revitalization of the best democratic values and efficiency for the benefit of citizens, I will vote in favour of this consideration. I trust that this time there will be sufficient agility to process and complete this regulatory amendment. May, on the third, Mr. Legarda, be the vanquished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u35	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u36	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. What's the point of a non-law proposition? What's the use of a motion? This is one of the questions that we frequently ask ourselves both members of this House and also the media and citizens. The truth is that there is even a doctrinal debate. If this is, as has been indicated, one of the functions mentioned in the Constitution in article 66.2 that this institution is responsible for - the budget, the legislative, but also the control of government - one of the questions that we ask ourselves is what happens to these non-law proposals or motions that have taken us so long to present, amend, discuss, debate and finally vote, because when they are approved, it is true that there is a gap in certifying what degree of compliance they have. Another of the doctrinal debates that exist is whether they are binding or not. Most of the academy and the doctrine say yes, that within that capacity of control they are binding. There's another minority part of the academy that says they're not. If they weren't, we'd be wasting our time discussing them. However, in the absence of clarity and certain gaps on the part of the regulations and even by the rules of this House, it is good, it is beneficial that there are ex post control mechanisms to see what degree of compliance they have. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of this measure, which - as has already been said - is not new, which has been discussed before; yesterday five years have passed since it was last debated. Since 1993, if I am not mistaken, initiatives have been put forward in this House in this way in order to be able to certify subsequently the degree of compliance with these initiatives. As I have already said, this is a measure which we consider to benefit not only the democratic quality but also the level of transparency. Another matter to which I wanted to refer - a previous spokesman said - is what happens to the rest of the control mechanisms, whether it be the oral questions, whether the written questions or the requests for a report. I believe that this government - not only this one, but also the previous ones - is not up to transparency, it is not up to compliance even with the rules when it comes to responding to a large part of these requests for information, of those written calls from this House. A review of the answers would blush any government that would call itself transparent and respect the division of powers. I believe that this House would also have to reflect on those initiatives, perhaps not as striking as those we talked about earlier, such as non-law proposals or motions, but to which each Member has a right and which they normally make. It is also the case with the oral questions, which we see every Wednesday in this House how they become a riferrafe simply, because even having put the question that is going to be asked a few weeks or five days in advance, on many occasions on a specific matter, the answers are vague on the part of the Executive and do not reach the minimum of seriousness of any parliamentary chamber, which on many occasions seems to me to be a lack of respect for this House and for the Executive itself. For all this, he ended by pointing out that we will vote in favour of this initiative, which we believe is positive, but I also believe that this House should reflect deeply on the control instruments it has, on the control capabilities it has and should, in the same way, stick an earful to this government which speaks so much about transparency, but which on many occasions is not up to it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u37	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said today, we repeat in this House the same debate that took place on 7 March 2017, five years ago, in addition, with an initiative identical to that presented today by Mr Legarda for the PNV. It has been a while now, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been debating here, and it was also unanimously adopted, as has been said, by 337 votes in favour, with one hundred per cent of the votes cast that day, to take account of this same legislative initiative. That was presented in January 2017, arrived at this plenary session in just over a month, expired after it began its parliamentary process, which also went through the process of tabling amendments, and disappeared in February 2019, two years later, with the dissolution of the Courts. That initiative, the same as it is now, dealt with two fundamental things for this House. The first, of course, because it was a proposal for a law, was to legislate, to create laws, to modify those that exist to improve them, to make them more effective and to better serve the interests of the society to which we all represent here. The second purpose, also obvious because it was precisely a proposal for a law, that is, an initiative that starts from Congress and not from the Government, from the Executive, was to promote government action while controlling and controlling that action. Because these are the main functions of the Courts, to legislate and control the government. That's why, like five years ago, Citizens like this initiative, and we welcome it back to Congress. We like it because in a party with liberal DNA like ours will always prevail the necessary control and control of the government at all times, in addition, in a way as constant as constructive, as rigorous as citizens demand and as positive as Spanish society needs right now. This bill tells us about something that is necessary for Citizens. It is necessary in a democratic and modern parliament that everything that is discussed here, that everything that is voted here and that everything that is approved here serves something, but that serves above all for the citizens. It is an initiative that seeks to take seriously the agreements that take place here with our votes, primarily motions and non-legislative proposals, although it seems that they are minor agreements alongside the function of modifying, creating or repealing the laws that Congress has; they seem to be minor because in principle and in theory they do not bind the Government to comply with the voted and agreed. In this regard, as Mr Iñarritu pointed out, it is true that there is a discussion on whether or not such resolutions adopted by Congress are binding. I think the answer is simple if we ask ourselves simply by its procedure. If they are not binding, why can they be amended? why can they be amended by agreements with other formations? It seems absurd that we can do all that work so that they are not really binding. We believe that this initiative should go ahead because it is a good initiative and because it is necessary. It is because that new rule 203 bis proposed in the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, which obliges the Government to send to this House twice a year, in the first month of each ordinary session, a report on the level of compliance with non-law proposals and with motions adopted in plenary or in the Commission, which also makes the Government itself come to explain and to submit to the questions that may be asked by the Members, is a good initiative; it is to strengthen the control and control function that this Congress has over the Government; it is to take our work seriously and to make the Government also take seriously that role that it has as Executive, because it will have to be held accountable for what it does not do when we urge it from here on to something. What is also strange, as has also been mentioned, is that this Congress does not have such a tool when the Senate does have it in section 178.2 of its Rules of Procedure, which provides that, within six months of the adoption of a motion, the Government or the corresponding body shall report on the compliance it has given to them - referring to approved motions - in order for the Government to make a statement on any matter or to refer a matter of competence to the Courts or that the Senate itself has given its opinion on a non-legislative text, a report which, even, we must remember, must be published by the Upper House itself. Therefore, if the Senate has provided in its Rules for this system of control of the Government in compliance with its motions, why not do the same in Congress with non-law proposals and with our own motions? Why not control that government action when it has been able to push from here? Why not point out, moreover, where and when the Government ceases to comply with what this Congress urges it to do, which is the main forum of popular sovereignty? It is not only our right as Members, but we understand that it is part of our duties. Therefore, it is useful for us to give ourselves this tool. Moreover, we believe that this tool can be improved, as we did in Citizens already in 2017, the previous time, and as we will do again, for example by providing that the Government's appearance is not once in the Committee on Rules of Procedure, but for each of the ministers and each of the parliamentary committees responsible for the matter, and that this plenary is also aware of the breaches or lack of effective accountability that occur in the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, if we cannot legally compel the Government to comply with the motions and non-legislative proposals that we adopt here, at least let us be able to point out to the plenary and, above all, to the citizens when the Government denies the majority will expressed by the Legislature. And yes, this proposal is indeed a procedure that is applied in the Basque Parliament from an agreement of 2013, after an initiative there by the People's Party - which is already curious that the People's Party always has proposals for regeneration where it never rules, but then where it rules uses the plasmas to hide - but let me tell you that this procedure is also a provision that we do have regulated in the regulation of the Valencian Courts. Let us remember the most important thing, however, because it must also be remembered there: it is not only to have that tool, but to use it conveniently and for the benefit of the transparency of government control and the interests of citizens. In conclusion, Mr Legarda, your initiative seems great to us, we will support it, but in some way I must remind you that you are actively cooperating with the one who governs us. In your hands, along with others here in this House, you have a much more ambitious power, and you have been reminded of it today. They can force Mr Sánchez to be accountable, to stop ruling by decree, to stop eluding parliamentary control, to stop hiding behind the plasma - he too and without questions - to respect the separation of powers, to maintain the prestige of the institutions and to comply with the Constitution. That would indeed be a genuine democratic regeneration. If they really had the will to do so, we would be happy twice, in addition to having this proposal today. We, from Citizens, encourage them to do so and remind them that in this matter of regeneration and transparency in the control and control of the Government we have been for a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u39	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Every week dozens of proposals are approved in this House that have the recognized role of guiding government policies. In most of these proposals, we also find matters of vital importance for different groups and sectors that see with hope that the Congress will stand in favour of their claims, but that, after the months, they will again address the deputies in order to be interested in the state of that commitment, seeing that this position, unfortunately, has not served to achieve real changes, causing disappointment and also disaffection. I put in my previous speech the example of the BNG's non-law proposal on the recognition of 33% disability with the diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases, adopted a year ago and, as I said, without being taken into consideration by the government at this time. It could put others, such as the resolutions - on two separate occasions - urging the Government to intervene temporarily in Alcoa to save the future of industrial activity and all jobs. Regrettably, the Government did not take these claims into account and Alcoa workers were engaged in a pact by which they had to accept the suspension of the vats and leave the staff of the auxiliary companies unsolved. We're not naive. Obviously, the proposed reform is not the universal panacea and certainly many of the resolutions adopted will remain in the drawers instead of being implemented, but in any case it allows for the articulation of a new control tool to the Government, it will facilitate groups and deputies to be able to demand information on the actions that the various ministerial departments have put in place to comply with parliamentary mandates to publicly highlight the action or inaction of the Government. In short, it represents an advance in democracy, which is why the BNG will support this proposal proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u41	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u42	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to highlight the parliamentary work of Mr Legarda. It is fortunate to share the parliamentary tasks with him, as it has also been fortunate to have shared the department with Professor Isidre Molas, professor and former vice president of the Senate, great constitutionalist, of those who really know constitutional law, and - as is the case - specialist in parliamentary law and parliamentary law. The reform of the Rules of Procedure before us is an objectively unquestionable improvement, although it has been unfortunate: as has already been said, this is the third time that we have seen it in this House for consideration. Motions, including PNL, are parliamentary mandates that, coming from an organ representing popular sovereignty, should condition the political action of the Government. It makes no sense that they are not binding; as has already been said, much of the doctrine supports their binding nature. Well, you know what happens here: we spend Tuesday afternoons debating GNP, negotiating amendments, reaching agreements or not, and, all this, most of the time for nothing, because what about the motions that we approve? Does the government do it? Is there any kind of follow-up? Do the questions, which we constantly put by the parliamentary groups, serve for this follow-up? Is there any accountability mechanism? The answer is no, no and no. An outrageous example: in 2016, a GNP was approved to activate aid to people affected by thalidomide that were already provided for in a 2010 non-compliance decree. Result: nothing. And now Junts per Catalunya has asked and there is no answer. It is a clear example of media posture and a lack of political will. Posture and lack of will are typical illnesses of PNL and motions. The PNV proposes a basic accountability regime, two annual reports on the degree of compliance and the subsequent appearance of a representative of the Government to whom he may be asked and to whom he should respond. It is a basic proposal, a proposal for minimums. Many parliaments already have accountability mechanisms, even more developed. The same Senate has a similar mechanism, it has already been said. For example, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia formalizes the Government's obligation to provide information and documentation and provides for the possibility of a vote in plenary to verify that Parliament's mandate is not met. It is true that the proposal could be more ambitious, could go further, could bring parliamentary activity even closer to the interests of the citizens, bringing the debates to the specific problems of specific groups, achieving more immediacy. Mechanisms exist; amendments could be tabled. But it is also true that the current Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies must be reformed, and not just in this respect. For example, the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies must be amended to ensure that the right of all Members to express themselves in our languages in the plenary and in any parliamentary procedure is respected once and for all. The Rules should also be amended to put an end to the role of the Constitutional Court, which has been played by the Bureau of Congress, which prevents parliamentary initiatives from proceeding with the argument of alleged unconstitutionality, violating our fundamental right to political representation. Junts per Catalunya, we do not have much sense of the Spanish State, but what we do have is a sense of democratic responsibility that forces us to question each and every one of the democratic and rule of law deficiencies presented to us; and not only this, but also to propose solutions and to welcome those that propose others, here and everywhere, in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u43	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u44	Dear colleagues, dear President... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u45	One second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep a little silence. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u46	Today, 8-M, it's a beautiful day. Feminist women celebrate themselves and celebrate so many conquests, so many struggles, so many advances, so much progress to fight against the enormous injustices and all those ceilings that have created thousands of years of subjugation and patriarchal culture. As the great thinkers of the feminist movement say, the role that feminist men have in this struggle is the role of allies, discreet allies, loyal allies, and the role of trying to put our grain of sand in order to overcome that patriarchal culture. So, on behalf of the group I represent, my congratulations and congratulations to all the feminist women in this House, both the deputies and the house employees. [[Applauds]] Let's go with the proposal that the Basque Nationalist Party brings us here today. Winston Churchill said democracy is the worst of all possible systems, removing all others. Something similar is happening with parliamentarianism. Parliamentaryism is a virtuous system, it is the best form of government, but unfortunately it is not in its fullness anywhere. The Parliamentarianism that exists, the real one, is a weakened Parliamentarianism, devalued by many issues. Many of the issues are related to technology. Governments, although they should be the Executive, the arm that executes what Parliament decides, are the highest body in the entire state bureaucracy and therefore have a whole plethora of human and material resources at its service, with an imbalance in practice in favour of who should be the implementing arm of the decisions of the representative of popular sovereignty in all parliamentary countries and, consequently, a relative devaluation of parliamentarianism. It is therefore important to recompose this in order, let us say, to balance this existing imbalance. There are many mechanisms at the disposal of governments to erode the capacity of parliamentarianism: there is delegated legislation; there is emergency legislation; there is regulatory power - that of you making the law that I will already make the regulation, attributed to Romanones -. And we are thus eroding parliamentary power. There is a plethora of instruments through which governments reaffirm themselves vis-à-vis parliaments. Therefore, this proposal is very pertinent and we will support its processing. Mr Legarda, dear Mikel, I think it is a good idea to have taken that agreement which the Basque Parliament took in its day - I think I remember that on the initiative of the People's Party - and to bring it to this other Parliament, and hopefully more fortunately, that the government is less reluctant than the government which is accountable to the Basque Parliament; that it does not send such generic reports, that it is subject to rigorous appearances before the relevant Commission and that it does not cause unrest in the groups, as is the case in the Basque Parliament, because of the government's little cooperation in this initiative which the Basque Parliament adopted unanimously on its day. We believe that it is a good idea to bring this initiative here and that it is necessary. So, we're going to support her and we're going to try to enrich her. I think it is important that there be reports of a thorough, not generic, non-balloon monitoring of all the approved GNPs, of how they are being carried out, and also of the strict appearances of those responsible for the government so that the opposition can carry out its work, which is to remove the colors of those we are in the government and to control that we strictly comply with our functions and that we implement all the agreements of Parliament, including those agreements that do not have the force of law. Therefore, from now on, we extend our enthusiastic support to the adoption of this measure, including its enrichment, and we also call upon all Governments. In this regard, we also ask the PNV to transfer it to the Basque Government, and to show a willingness to explain themselves before the opposition groups, to cooperate with them, to say how their agreements are being implemented and to submit to parliamentary control in the relevant committee. Without further ado, thank you very much to everyone, especially feminist women in this day and age. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u48	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a bill to reform the Congressional Rules of Procedure, which basically aims to control the Government's compliance with what is agreed on in the GNP and other motions that are passed. It turns out that for the PNV, this great party of state, which is always willing to cut it here, it is not urgent that the regulation be amended so that the political plurality that we represent here is real and effective, so that, for example, the third parliamentary group in this House is treated with justice. [[Applauds]] There is nothing going on in front of the cacicada that VOX has been deprived of being present at the tables of all the commissions, all of them. There has been no democratic decency to respect in this House the order of majority that the Spanish people have established with their votes. [[Applauds]] There is nothing at all about the fact that VOX has been allocated seats by way of irregular and arbitrary distribution through the Chamber, while other groups, such as the proposer, with a small number of Members, enjoy privileged locations. [[Applauds]] It does not seem to be a problem either if Members of the third parliamentary group are arbitrarily deprived of their participation in international activities to which this House sends representatives, placing in their place Members of groups with much less representation, as is the case with whom? The PNV. Oh, my God! [[Applauds]] For the PNV the important thing is that in Congress we lose more time with the PNL and other motions. We all know in this House that GNP and motions are nothing but declarations of principle, that they are indeed important for deepening the quality of our democracy, but that they are not binding, and we are not just saying this, nor a large part of the liberal sector, as the Constitutional Court's judgment 180/1991 also says. And they cannot be binding because the separation of powers proper to a democratic State determines that the essential function of the Legislative Power is to draft laws. In short, Article 203 bis proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party goes beyond the constitutional function assigned to this House. But this is not an obstacle, of course, for VOX to have brought good non-legislative initiatives to this Parliament, such as the one calling on the Government to suspend the granting of visas to nationals of countries who refuse to readmit those who are expelled for illegally entering Spain. [[Applauds]] And it is that we do not have to endure those who violently assault our borders of Ceuta and Melilla - recognized by Minister Marlaska - and seriously and savagely harm our police officers. Or the one calling on the Ministry of Equality to guarantee equality among all Spaniards, because men, and with us many women, are already tired of being pointed out as stinking. [[Applauds]] Or like the one calling for measures to prevent ETA from deciding Spain's prison policy. Because ETA has not only not disappeared, it has an influence on politics, because you, peneuvists and also socialists, are very comfortable with it after having bleached it. What a shame! [[Applauds]] Of course, these initiatives were also rejected with the votes of the PNV. But, look, even assuming they could have been approved by a majority, what would they have served? For, really, little by little, because you cannot be required to answer to those who do not comply with what is not binding upon them, so simple, however much you, gentlemen of the PNV, propose. And you yourself, Mr. Legarda, have recognized him in the rostrum. We really are not here to waste time, we are here to legislate and to do it right, which is our obligation. It would therefore have been interesting for his proposal to deal, for example, with improving the system of drafting laws. Because, let us see, is it acceptable as a parliamentary practice for one or more groups to make amendments outside of a legislative presentation by denying participation to the rest of the groups? Or is it acceptable as a parliamentary practice that in some legislative papers they are presented by majority groups, in a surprising way and without time for their study, massive modifications of the normative texts in progress, forcing their vote in addition? We don't think so. The question is, gentlemen of the PNV, whether you, as a group linked to the majority that supports the Government, recognize yourselves as collaborators in such practices. And since we are talking about regulatory changes, I ask you: have you agreed to encourage the amendment of the Basque Parliament's Rules of Procedure to ensure ideological plurality and political participation? [[Applauds]] I don't think so. I say this because of the totalitarian deprivation of democratic rights which, under the guise of loopholes or voids in your rules of procedure of the regional Parliament, you, together with your socialist, communist and Batasun allies, are imposing on our parliamentarian Amaia Martínez, whom we admire for her courage and send from here a strong embrace. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, we Members of VOX are not like you. We are not afraid to discuss their parliamentary initiatives, however absurd some of them may seem to us - you see -. You, on the other hand, do not dare to do the same with VOX in the Basque Regional Parliament. It seems that the brave Gudaris, even playing with a great numerical advantage, are shaking their legs. In short, it seems that this time there will be no unanimity. We will vote not on your proposal for a law, not because we intend to do this illegitimate government the favor, you know that it is not, but because we only managed to waste all our time even more, and we are not for this. We cost the Spanish people a lot of money and, for that reason, they deserve a little more respect from us. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, 8 March, we reaffirm our group's commitment to working for freedom as a better way to achieve equality. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are debating, on a proposal from the Basque Parliamentary Group, a reform of the Rules of Procedure which pursues an objective shared by my group: to give greater importance to Congress, to the decisions that are being taken in this House and, ultimately, to energise the General Courts in order to restore to them the centrality that they must have in democratic life. In this legislature, the Government is planning to reduce Parliament to a mere House of Political Opinions. From the Executive Parliament is being removed from the Legislative Power, with a twisting use, if I may, of constitutional contrasts of the royal decree law: there have been seventy-five royal decrees passed since Sanchez is president. Its extreme urgency and necessity are justified in very little. In some, we are voting together for things that have nothing to do with, for example, wearing masks and adapting pensions; in others, the House approves its handling as a bill and for the Government there is no longer any urgency and makes postponements to introduce amendments, and while a rule is in force, with a clear disregard for parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] For example, the European Fund Bill carries more than 40 extensions of the deadline for amendments. Decisions taken by most of the House's Bureau are being monitored by the Government, where consultation takes place before the decision is taken; a clear example is the total or partial closures that occurred during the pandemic. Political control is being curtailed, with the absence of responses and the concealment and opacity of the information requested by the groups. Only the groups of the People's Parliamentary Group have more than 425 unanswered requests for data and reports, and some of the answers are a lack of respect that lines in shame: they refer to a link of the BOE or declare the President's travels in Falcon as a matter classified with the highest degree of protection - I repeat, with the highest degree of protection -. The National Court has said that the secrecy and prudence surrounding security issues cannot be an obstacle to the application of the transparency law, but they have not understood it. Parliamentary action is being impeded when the veto is unfairly abused to curtail the political initiative of parliamentarians and to prevent debate on amendments or proposals for legislation. There are more than 1700 vetoed amendments, 500 of the People's Parliamentary Group, with veto and report against the lawyers, during the processing of the last General State Budgets, or the absurd and anti-democratic veto to my group's legislative proposals on an independent authority to manage European funds, the repeal of the property tax or the fiscal measures of energy sustainability and control of the receipt of light. Parliament is despised when non-legislative proposals and motions are passed in this House, and the Government does not comply with them or report on the management and evaluation of their compliance. Only from the People's Parliamentary Group, more than 60 sleep the dream of the righteous. They are not fulfilled, but we also do not know why, and when the Government is asked, it answers with facsimile, literally saying: the Government fulfils its responsibilities to the Courts, with the utmost respect for them and their representatives. The same is true when the majority of the Bureau blocks such requests for information so that they are not even processed. Information? No information from the Government. This is not the first time we have discussed this initiative, as has been said before. My group has always voted in the affirmative when we were in the Government and in the opposition; in fact, we have put forward a similar initiative to be discussed in the Constitutional Commission. In my previous speeches I always appealed to the consensus necessary for the reform of the Rules of Procedure and to the willingness of all Members to make Parliament the centre of political life in this country. Today I cannot argue the same reasons, because it is clear that there is a clear political will on the part of the Government to replace part of Parliament's functions by the Executive and, of course, to prevent the initiative of parliamentarians and to hinder the control actions of political groups. The Government, as we say in the explanatory statement of our non-law proposal, has placed itself in a position of primacy over Parliament, perverting the separation of powers, and has ignored the obligations arising from the proposals adopted by the House. Today my group will vote yes, with the clear determination to draw attention to the necessary recovery of the political centrality of Parliament. When a question is adopted in Parliament, it is to comply with it. What credibility would we have if we didn't? Time limits, administrative procedures, budgetary functions depend on the Executive and it is up to the Executive to determine them. It is therefore imperative for the Government to report on the success of the implementation of the initiatives adopted in this House. I am aware that just as the Executive must not supplant Parliament, Parliament must respect the constitutional powers of the Executive. It is a good and healthy democracy. We must respect the separation of powers, but we are now witnessing interference by the executive in the legislature, as we are seeing day by day. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that one day we will address with consensus a comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure that improves parliamentary life, facilitates the role of the members elected by the citizens, helps to increase the legislative quality, the control of the government. But in the meantime, let us approve this initiative, which is a reality, because today we are, even if it seems incredible at this point in our democracy, demanding the executive to respect Parliament. [[Applauds]] History teaches us that when the executive interferes in parliamentary life, democratic quality diminishes and the government, especially its president, falls into the pre-power and assumption of powers that do not correspond to it. It is therefore necessary to reverse this situation. Mr Legarda, I hope that this initiative will become a reality and, as Mr Oblanca has said, that the third initiative will be defeated. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u51	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u52	Thank you, President. My colleague Paco Aranda pointed out that, precisely on this 8 March, in which we commemorated the struggle of women for equality, only two women were going to intervene on this point. Precisely, just two, but we closed the debate. Mrs. Borrego, go for it all. [[Applauds]] The Basque Group is again presenting to us for consideration a proposal to reform the Congressional Rules of Procedure for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law, with the aim - they themselves point out in their explanatory statement - of ascertaining whether the Government takes into account the non-legislative mandates of Parliament, such as non-legislative proposals or the motions themselves that are adopted in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group supports this consideration because we have always been and are in all the initiatives that strengthen the role of Parliament and in all those that contribute to making our democracy even stronger, more robust and stronger. We are working to increase transparency and accountability in all institutions, including in Parliament, in order to strengthen the democracy we believe in. It is also a very timely and necessary moment to contribute from all areas of public responsibility and to highlight the same idea by which, ladies and gentlemen, we are present in this Chamber: the value of democracy, the value and defence of a democratic State like ours, and more so today when a democratic State like ours is being invaded and when its institutions, its women, its men, its children and its elderly are being massacred. For Ukraine. [[Applauds]] All democratic political forces have the duty and responsibility to unite in defence of the major causes, around the strengthening of our democratic institutions. [[The lady]] The Socialist Group supports this initiative, Mr Legarda, and we also do so because the government that President Pedro Sánchez is the one that most exercises transparency before Congress and the Senate, the government that most is being subjected to parliamentary control in the more than forty years of constitutional progress. To accredit it are the session logs, they are not my words, they are made easily observable. Let me offer you just a few facts: 77045 written questions answered by the Government; 125,000 written questions answered in both Houses; 727 oral questions that have been answered in Congress. In addition to the statistics and the value of the data on the answer to the questions I have just given, I also think it is necessary to remember that it is this Government that has appeared most before the Chambers: fourteen appearances of President Pedro Sánchez in this House, in Congress, fourteen; 158 appearances of ministers and ministers in the Commission, 158. During such appearances, members of the Government are held accountable; they are held accountable for the fulfilment of the mandates expressed by this House in the form, for example, of the bills themselves. The initiative that is being considered today does not do so but rather shape what is already happening, which is why and why the Socialist Group will support it. Away are the times when President Rajoy's government wrote pilgrim arguments to avoid being subjected to Congressional control, arguments without rigor that received one of the most robust criticisms and pronouncements that are remembered by the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also point out that the Government has produced reports in compliance with the non-legislative proposals adopted by this House. And let me remind you of just one example, the performance report which the Government submitted last February on registered property in favour of the Church, an unprecedented study that was carried out precisely in compliance with the mandate expressed by the Justice Commission of this House. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we are going to support this proposal with our affirmative vote, and we are doing so with conviction, yes, with conviction, but also with the added pride of being part of the group and the Socialist Party that supports this government, the most respectful government to date with the mandates it receives from Parliament and with the control we exercise as members of the General Courts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u54	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to deflate the tax rate on the income of individuals. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs MartínezGranados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we Liberals are very concerned about the economic situation in our country, especially as a result of inflation. The CPI for the last month of February has reached 7.4% every year, figures that have not been seen in Spain for three decades. We've been suffering the progressive rise in prices for months. We know that their cause is in global production chains, but not all of us are suffering the same way, because not all of us are responding the same way. Inflation in Spain in 2021 was 25% higher than the European average. Ladies and gentlemen, these are irrefutable facts. It seems like everything gets used to one, but it can't be like that. Day after day, we continue to accumulate historical peaks in the price of light, gasoline is impossible for all those who do not travel to Falcon and in the shopping basket - milk, eggs, meat, fish, fruit, vegetables - has climbed everything, absolutely everything. And now, with the invasion of Ukraine, we find that there is already rationing of sunflower oil and that wheat and maize will multiply its price. Do you know who feeds on wheat and corn? The cattle. Therefore, a large increase in the price of meat can also be expected. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the collection voraciousness of the Sánchez Government, and that is why, when Mr Sánchez says that hard times are coming, it is like getting your hands on the wallet once again. Inflation is a serious problem that suffers every day from the pockets of millions of families in our country. Not all inflation is the responsibility of the Government, but it is when the Government refuses to adapt the tax system to a country to alleviate the effects of inflation. It is something that is well known to economists, tax rules, when they are in nominal terms, after a while they unravel economic reality if they are not adjusted. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, whether no one has thought about this - nobody but the liberals - or whether the Government has thought about this but intentionally is charging the Spanish more taxes than they really are. In any case, today we can put an end to it. If we deflate and get the IRPF rate to adjust to inflation and immediately relieve millions of households, SMEs and self-employed, we will be doing something good for all Spaniards. What are we talking about? It's simple, the IRPF that Finance charges to workers regulates it a few tables: at higher wages, the higher the tax. This is logical, except for a problem that cries out to heaven, and is that the thresholds of the current IRPF have remained unchanged since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, with an inflation of 7.4%, if the wage rises by 2% you are not richer, on the contrary, but the Treasury does charge you more, as if you were actually richer. This means that thousands of taxpayers are taxing on a stretch that really does not belong to them and are paying more taxes to the Treasury without their purchasing capacity having increased. In other words, a covert rise in taxes to citizens who today have more economic capacity than yesterday, but that is not true, because inflation touches their pocket. And we are talking about tax increases, ladies and gentlemen, because this is something that the government could avoid by adapting the tax sections, as the liberals have asked on several occasions, and which we are finally debating here today, in parliamentary place. It's very simple: explain to us citizens who refuse to update the IRPF's inflation rates just to keep collecting more. Although the citizen is more impoverished by inflation and pays more taxes, the government refuses to adapt the IRPF sections. Do you really think that's fair? Is that fair? And we don't say that, says the Constitution. The lack of deflation runs counter to the constitutional mandate that the tax system must comply with the principle of economic capacity. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, acknowledge this: you are right when you rectify, and you take the steps that Citizens ask you to do, but always rectify. We've been able to check it out today. Today we have managed to deal with the law of the ELA - which we will finally vote on today - and we have done so after you have rectified it. This happens all the time. Should we send weapons to Ukraine so that Ukrainians can defend themselves from the invasion of Russia? You, until you men rectify, you don't get it right. In this case, as always, they rushed to reject our move to adapt the IRPF to inflation by saying it was unfeasible. Now, in front of all the Spaniards, explain to them what they are going to vote for a measure that simply seeks to alleviate a little bit the economic situation in which many families find themselves today. The People's Party wanted to tell you that I know that it did like our initiative, because, as a result of what was being debated here today in plenary, they have recorded a practically flattened figure. We welcome the fact that they wanted to amend our amendment, because we join all parties. Everyone who wants to cooperate is in this non-legislative proposition. But, I repeat again: tell the citizens today if you are going to vote in favour or against that you can ease your pocket, that you can ease your arrival at the end of the month, that you can ease the rise in the price of light. Say it, explain it, today, here, to the Spaniards. Groups voting no to this initiative will be voting no to citizens. They'll be voting no, and that's what they have to assume, and the citizens must know. What we are asking for, ladies and gentlemen, is not excessive, it is pure common sense. It is nothing that has not been done before, already done by the governments of González, Aznar and Zapatero, who deflated the rates of the IRPF at the time. But it is also not something that we just want to do, but in France the tables of the IRPF are updated every year, every year they are adjusted. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish have already paid the highest electricity price in history this Monday. If this Government does not know what to do with the rise of light, if this Government does not know what to do with the private sector and agri-food, because prices are rising every day, and since the war in Ukraine is going to rise more, if they do not know what to do to cushion this rise, they will vote yes to the proposal of not law of Citizens, because this will relieve that rise in price and that inflation that falls directly on each and every citizen of this country. I say it again: if you do not vote in favour of this non-law proposal, you will be voting against many families being able to reach the end of the month. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, 8 March, I would like to recall in this rostrum for all the Members, Senators, Members and Senators who throughout the history of these Chambers have worked for the equality of women. Much progress has been made, much work remains to be done, and I hope that the 350 Members who are part of this Parliament will also be able to continue to contribute. Having said that, we have tabled an amendment. The President of the Government I think he tried to be honest last Wednesday when he came up here and explained that difficult times are coming. I don't know if we are sufficiently aware of economic reality. The situation is complicated, complicated as we have not seen so far. I'm telling you honestly, and I'd like to be very wrong. Therefore, action will surely have to be taken, and it will also be up to us in this House to take difficult and certainly unthinkable measures so far. And here we'll all have to be responsible. It's true that a part of the population is going to have a bad time, we're going to have a bad time. The inflation situation - it has been pointed out - is prior to the invasion of Ukraine and the subsequent conflict that has been generated, but it will be accentuated and important. A two-digit inflation, which we thought we would no longer have in mind, is unfortunately going to have in mind over the next few months. And something will have to be done, and we'll all have to do it. What the president of the government said asking for an income pact was reasonable, the governor of the Banco de España had asked for it weeks earlier and modestly also this Member, but it is now going to become indispensable. I know that on this issue we cannot transfer responsibility exclusively to the social partners, who are going to have to take it, but we also have to take it up in this House and the government will have to take it up. So sooner or later we will have to deflate part of the IRPF tariff, and this is going to happen, because if not the contribution that will be made from the public authorities to this income pact will be limited, and because we will surely be much more legitimised to ask for this income pact if we take measures such as those proposed, at least in our amendment. Citizens' proposal, I think it was a bit maximalistic. He said that the full effect of inflation was shifted to deflating the rate precisely to 100 per cent. Well, with the times ahead, I'm telling you, this is not going to be realistic either. Will the rate have to be deflated in part to assume the effects of inflation? You will see that, and we will not do so now with this GNP, beyond the fact that it may not succeed, but there will be a time when we will have to take this step and I am sure that the Government will take it and will ask for support from the whole House. I'm telling you, they're probably going to have our support. However, the amendment that we are presenting raises, firstly, that a 100% deflation is not realistic; secondly, that it should be limited only to the year 2022, for the time being - we believe that it should not be generalized - and thirdly, from our perspective, that this should be part of the plan of the income pact to put it as an incentive on the part of the Government and on the part of these Chambers, trade unions and employers, which also makes some contribution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u58	Mr. Bel, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u61	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We have come to discuss a proposal by Citizens to correct the harmful effects of the progressive tax in combination with inflation on workers' disposable income. It is indeed the progressiveness of the tax that generates this harmful effect. If the tax were proportional to income, the loss of purchasing power entailed by inflation would be the same for the taxpayer as for the public finance. However, because of this progressiveness, the taxpayer's loss of disposable income is greater than that of the Treasury. [[Applauds]] Rather, what is happening because of this progressiveness is that tax revenues increase more than proportionally to inflation, while taxpayers' tax-free revenues increase less. As economists say, inflation is a tax and an undercover tax. In the VOX Parliamentary Group we have always been very concerned about the disposable income of workers and therefore we have tabled an amendment proposing the reduction of social contributions, both the bad calls of the employer and those of the worker. We say the employer's bad calls because all of them are actually paid by the worker and by a non-transparent mechanism we avoid the worker knowing that 30% of his effort, before paying IRPF, VAT, special taxes, IBI and any other tax that may occur to you, has already blown him off the payroll. Furthermore, we believe that this reduction in social contributions, which would at first generate a reduction in public income, would be more than offset by the lower need for assistance to the population, since there would be an increase in employment. But let's talk about the government executioner, because until a few weeks ago the discussion was whether inflation was temporary or permanent, but the war that Russia has generated in Ukraine, supported by its Bolivian, Nicaraguan, Venezuelan and Cuban collaborators, is generating that the government is putting the blindfold before the wound and is trying to convince us that the bad economic executioner we are accustomed to is always because of external causes. In the case of COVID-19, in which you have insisted a lot, it has not been so. You have a worse economic execution than the rest of the countries. In particular, you have 267,000 infected per million, compared to 57 000, which is the world average; you have 2147 dead per million, compared to 773, what is the world average, and you have the worst economic executioner in the European Union. In fact, before the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine, it was warned that this was the only nation of the 27 that are part of the EU that, by the end of 2022, would not have recovered the GDP of 2019. Therefore, and remembering what the newspaper El Mundo told us yesterday - I textually read to you the headline of the article -: 'War is no pretext for incompetence - and COVID-19 has been, I add -'. [[Applauds]] Inflation, before the outbreak of the Russian war against Ukraine, was already 1.7 percentage points higher than the EU average. Yesterday, the Institute for Economic Studies stated that Spain - I quote you textually - could reduce its public spending by 14% and continue to offer the same level of public services if it could improve its efficiency to levels similar to those of the OECD average. In other words, this would save resources of around EUR 60 billion. See if we could help the ELA, the Francisco Luzón Foundation, which has contributed so much to the visibility of this problem, if we could reduce that 60 billion. In April 2019, in our economic program we proposed a cut of 24 billion in superfluous public spending, and you did nothing but throw improvisations at us. Now, it seems, the cut is 60,000. I do not think we were short, rather I think that waste has increased over the past three years and, as you are the true liberals of this House, in the sense that gives you the primary meaning of the dictionary of the Royal Academy, you have done nothing but increase spending. The latest events have caught us again in the most absolute foresight. Three weeks ago we discussed the possibility of starting structural reforms. You said he didn't come to the story, because it's never the time for him to live in improvisation and occurrence. No, gentlemen, the worst relative situation in Spain, the last of the countries of the European Union in the economic execution and the worst in health matters, can only be due to the Spanish differential fact: a radical left government supported by the enemies of its unity, because there is no good wind for those who do not know where it is going. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u62	Thank you, Mr. Manso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u63	Thank you, President. On Women's Day, all our support for Ukrainian women, who go with children, with older, loaded, crossing borders, fleeing the Putin war, defending freedom and democracy. [[Applauds]] Today more than ever we are with you, brave and fighting women, Ukrainian women. The People's Group has put forward an initiative for the Government to bring down the IRPF for high inflation and for Sánchez to no longer collect at the expense of impoverishing families. In agreement with this GNP, we have tabled an amendment that improves the citizens' text so that not only the IRPF sections are deflated, but also the exempt minimums and other deductions. Mrs. Martinez, no copying, read Daniel Lacalle, who said it a long time ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we are suffering the greatest inflation in the last thirty years, not now for war. The CPI is now at 7.4%, but by December it was at 6.5%, a figure higher than that of the European countries. Don't let President Sánchez come now to tell us that hard times are coming and that Putin's war is going to have an impact on prices, because by December the light was fired, the diesel was fired and the shopping basket by the clouds. I mean, don't use Putin's war to justify his incompetence. We have public debt in historical peaks, we are at the head of unemployment and inequality and poverty increase. Thus, the invasion is true that it exacerbates imbalances, but the economic and social situation was already quite complicated before the war. By the way, Volkswagen will fire 63% of the potential, that is the labour reform of this government. Well, this surge in prices not only impoverishes families and businesses, but also makes tax collection in record numbers, precisely because of the widening of tax bases; that is, if the light is more expensive, the VAT we pay is also higher. Inflation therefore entails a hidden rise in taxes. But, if that were not enough, they have now presented the White Paper for tax reform, which comes to advise what they have already been told to advise, i.e. SMI and massive tax increase, as the Government had already signed with Brussels. We are the only European country that, instead of lowering taxes in the middle of the pandemic, we raised them in 2021 and 2022. And Minister Montero says that in this context of international instability there will be no tax increases, but she also told us that she was not going to raise taxes to the middle and working classes, and she is crushing them, is the highest exponent of the government of lies. In any case, if it isn't now, when the war's over we're going to be suffocated with taxes. I want to give you some brushstrokes from the white book. They speak of modern VAT, i.e. 21 % VAT. They want to eliminate the reduced and super-reduced VAT and I don't know how this will affect tourism - I think of the Costa del Sol and Malaga -. War on the private vehicle: they want to raise the diesel, the registration tax, the IVTM, the tax for circulation in the city, the tax for circulation on the roads; that is, a real horror. Then the star measure, which is fiscal harmonization: increase of assets, inheritances and donations, proposing a minimum rate so that it cannot be enhanced by the autonomous communities, especially those of the PP. In other words, Minister Montero wants to put the inheritance tax back in Andalusia where Juanma Moreno has already eliminated it. Gentlemen of the left, before you raise taxes further, please reduce inefficient public spending. It can be reduced to EUR 60 billion, as the Institute for Economic Studies has said. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish are on the edge. As long as the citizens get poorer and do not reach the end of the month, you collect more; as long as the companies are paying the light at a price ten times as much as a year ago, you are getting fed. All right, lower taxes, start with the IRPF, start with the light. What we are seeing is that Mr Sánchez's Spanish Socialist Workers Party has fallen into the O of workers. Look, if his government partners, the Communists of Podemos, call him a war party, throw him out of the government. Spain and the Spanish do not deserve ministers who are friends of Putin and defend him. Do not worry that here will be the People's Party to support you against the war in Putin. I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that if you want to raise taxes again, suffocate the Spaniards and sink the companies, of course, that is not what the People's Party will be for, that is why we are radically against, and I say to you, loud and clear: no to the fiscal harassment of the left. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of developments and developments in the prices of electricity, gas, oil and the shopping basket - all fired, all beating historical records - this proposal is not only relevant, but should be implemented immediately by the Government. Some of us have already argued with our respective amendments in full to the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State of 2022, which were rejected, that the forecasts with which the public accounts were made were unreal and did not follow the warnings that different bodies of absolute solvency, both national and international, were making. If it was already irresponsible to ignore so many calls for attention to the current economic situation, the addition of the very serious impacts of the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops does not allow any delay in implementing emergency measures that adjust the sections of the income tax scale of natural persons to the evolution of inflation and to the real economic capacity of taxpayers. Not doing so gradually impoverishes the whole of Spanish society more and more, taking it to unknown levels. In this respect, it should be remembered that the rise in the consumer price index is calculated by taking as a reference the order of almost five hundred items that are part of the basket of the purchase made by the Spaniards. Today, the price escalation and the disruption it entails for the economy at all the precise levels of urgent remedies. I therefore think that the original text of the initiative is appropriate; although both the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which extends the adjustments to the tax scale to include personal minimums and other deductions, is of great value, and VOX's proposal to reduce social contributions by workers and businesses is also very realistic. All these would be good measures to be taken by the Government, but they should not be the only ones to face the sacrifices to which Pedro Sánchez referred in his appearance last Wednesday, which herald a period of growing concern that should be addressed by changing the tax system downwards. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has a big problem and the government wants to make it up, appealing to the robustness of the economy or to very chulsy things, to quote terms used frivolously by the vice-presidents, will contribute to great economic misadjustments and their effects will reach all the taxpayers even more. Hence, new fiscal policies are needed along the lines of this non-law proposal, because more and more families are having difficulty reaching the end of the month. Let us no longer say the families of the primary sector, which are absolutely stifled by the overcosts at present. As I repeat in this rostrum, the escalation of inflation has much to do with what has happened in energy prices, which, to a large extent, are the product of the erratic policy that the Sánchez government has been developing in this area since its arrival in Moncloa in June 2018. Unfortunately, we will continue to pay for the renunciation of our energy sovereignty, the irresponsible decarbonisation that has left us without electricity and that we will have to buy electricity from other countries at the price they set us. The thermal power plants have been demolished without a glance and we are now buying dirty electricity from Morocco. Socio-economic alternatives in the regions affected by the closure of power plants have never arrived. We've exported our jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by reiterating that inflation is a hallmark for Spanish households and acts by diminishing their purchasing capacity. The Government has in its hand the tools to act immediately and relieve the burden of this undesirable guest who, in view of the events, has a trace that he is going to accompany us for a long and harsh season. Hence the need for the measures that Mrs Martínez Granados has put forward, which will count on my vote. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u67	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Citizens are asking us today for a GNP to deflate the rate of the IRPF; a proposal that I believe they have also submitted in different autonomous parliaments and whose decisions on this issue we also believe should be taken into account because it will affect them in their collection, since the IRPF is a tax that is given in the common financing system. It would have been desirable, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, to have also brought a report of the fiscal impact of what this implies, as well as the redistributive and progressive implications, more than anything to have the overall picture of what we are being asked of in this GNP. This is a proposal which, we must not forget too, we believe is now confined to the debate that is to be opened on tax reform and on which a study prepared by the committee of experts has already been submitted; a study which we believe will address, among other things, that of the IRPF and, as it seems, perhaps it would not be appropriate to change in a general way all the sections of IRPF proposed to us today. They also ask for the tariff to be deflated, but under no circumstances do they speak of exempt minimums or tax deductions, which should also be amended. In addition, we are told about this deflation knowing that this amendment will not enter into force until 1 January 2023, that is to say that the declarations of financial year 2021, which begin to appear on 1 April, will under no circumstances be affected by this measure which you are requesting. It is also surprising that they are bringing this GNP today, we understand that inflation is certainly very high, but that they have not done so in previous years. It must also be said that the Government is not alien to inflation, to the rise in prices, which it also has to face in implementing expenditure; expenditure which, by the way, has multiplied because of the extraordinary circumstances that we are experiencing, and which will also serve to ensure the well-being of citizens and those most vulnerable individuals or groups. We agree that tax systems should be designed with adjustment clauses that consider inflation. That is why we understand that this fact is perhaps envisaged in the forthcoming tax reform. Having said that, we also have to say that, at least in the case of out-of-pocket systems, before it was generally decided that deflation was to adjust the IRPF to the expected evolution of wages; afterwards, deflation began to link to the CPI. And so, for years now, the rate and retention table of the IRPF has been updated, in order to adjust them to the inflation expected, and accordingly the tax deductions are also adjusted. Only when comprehensive reforms of the IRPF have been carried out - which I believe was done in 2007 or 2008 - has the tax not been deflated. By 2022, a 1.5% fluctuation has been forecast; yes, you can tell me that it is below inflation, which is very high, but the underlying inflation has always been taken into account. Furthermore, in Navarre, I believe that a 2% fluctuation has also been adopted. We understand that the intention to increase equity must be a basic objective of any tax system, in which economic capacity we believe should be the tool or measure to distribute tax obligations. We understand that at the heart of this GNP is the idea of considering deflating the rate applicable to the liquidated base to lighten the tax burden, which does not correspond to an increase in the purchasing power of taxpayers. And since we are doing this in the outlying communities, we are going to abstain in this GNP. We agree with the basic idea they put forward, although not with a general fluctuation of 12.8%, much less with recovering all those years ago, because, as Mr Bel said, it is neither realistic nor possible to achieve. It would be logical that they referred to the year 2022. Difficult times are coming and inflation was already high. As Mr Bel has also said, this is also being accentuated by the invasion of Ukraine. We understand that sooner or later difficult decisions will have to be made and between them will be the deflating of these rates if they want that income pact that has been announced to us to go to good port. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u69	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. At first glance, the Citizens' initiative that we are now discussing is covered by a certain mantle of reasonableness. Indeed, in a context of increasing inflation, further induced by increasingly structural factors, it seems logical to think that the monetary scales through which the State operates should be updated, including, of course, those relating to tax instalments, in this case IRPF. This initiative certainly describes a certain and increasingly worrying reality in its explanatory statement, what is the international price scale and its distortive effects on the behaviour of the various economic actors. It also points to the most disadvantaged social segments as the main victims of this spiral. Although then, yes, the resolution of the initiative completely forgets this phenomenon and provides a generic solution, in which little or nothing is taken into account the factors that you rightly pointed out in the diagnosis. In any case, after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, we must forget about short-term price moderation, while it is clear to all that inflationary tensions in the energy and agri-food markets are going to accompany us for a good time, as has already been said here today. This is certainly going to hamper the process of economic recovery in which we are immersed. There are still no signs in Europe of the stalemate that has swept away in the 1970s and 1980s, but we might as well approach this precipice this year to anything that is bound up with some bad decisions for very well dressed in good intentions that these come; decisions like those that you propose here today, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, to my humble understanding, because, at a time when we are going to need all the corrective power, all the protective power of the State in the face of the tsunami that comes to us, you propose, in short, to weaken it, that is, to hourly its collecting capacity, something as well as to dismantle the dam of containment with the argument that its bricks are better in each one's house. Of course, we cannot agree with this measure, let alone in a context in which we are prepared to face a fiscal reform, as Mrs Sagastizabal reminded you, in whose final formulation, of course, we will have to have taken into account the phenomena of conjuncture in which it touches to move, including also the phenomena of inflation. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, in our view, the fact that the international scene is deteriorating, and is even acquiring dramatic hues at the moment, should not be a reason to paralyse the pending reforms. Undoubtedly, recent events force us to recalculate and rethink expectations, of course, but in many ways we believe that the process of reform must be deepened, it must be radicalized, not moderate, precisely because those reforms respond to challenges that have only grown in the heat of the events we are experiencing. That is why, in the view of our parliamentary group, the urgency to undertake a fiscal reform that is far from overturned, ladies and gentlemen, has increased. It was raised at the time that the reform responded to the need of the State to strengthen its intervention tools in a time of uncertainty. Have you reduced this uncertainty with the war? And, therefore, are these tools not more necessary today than ever? On the other hand, the reform responded to the conscious will expressed in the co-government agreement between the Socialist Party and my formation to strengthen the progressive nature of our tax system. Honestly, I see nothing in the picture that discourages me from thinking that the goal of greater fiscal justice has lost effect in the last few days, rather to the contrary. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in these strange days that we are experiencing, there is nothing left but to be prudent, but without falling into paralysis. We must be bold, without falling into fear either. In any case, what is clear is that it is no longer good to continue doing things as has always been done, and I invite you to think about that, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, with a little more ambition. In view of what is coming to us, to think of a measure as punctual as that which you are presenting there gives me the feeling that it is, in the end, trying to end a very big problem with clearly insufficient tools. In any case, let us hope that this fiscal debate will take place, that the various solutions and alternatives can be provided, and let us hope that this debate can hear the approaches taken from the sphere or from the liberal sphere of this Chamber, but, as I say, we confine that debate to the pending reform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u71	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Congratulations, congratulations to my companions, on Women's Day. Congratulations to all the women in the world. And he sent a message: feminism is more alive than ever and, of course, those who deny it what they are hiding are the fear they have of feminism. Therefore, living feminism and real equality, which is what we all want. [[Applauds]] Thank you, comrade Carmen Calvo. Today I have you here and I have to thank you for all the effort you've been making your whole life for feminism in this country. [[Applauds]] We appreciate it. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this initiative is to deflate the tariffs of the IRPF and we are going to reject it. Very good music, but very bad lyrics, that I'm going to take out. From the factual point of view it is a regressive measure, because, ladies and gentlemen, those who receive 12,000 euros do not affect them. Who benefits from deflating? To those who charge 60,000 and 300,000 euros, a cupcake for these ladies and gentlemen, but it is a retrogressive measure because, from an economic point of view, it would create what is called the second round effect and generate even more inflation. From a legal point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you know what was approved in 2015? Law 2/2015 of Desindexation of the Spanish Economy, which in article 1 expressly prohibits such measures, excludes pensions and collective bargaining. Fourthly, there are collective issues, and what Citizens want is to spoil the collection of this tax, but obviously they also spoil that of the autonomous communities. I ask you the following question: Should we compensate the autonomous communities for the loss of their income? That's the doubt. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you have been ruling for seven years and have never deflated. How do you now think you have to deflate, and even more so than Citizens, because you want bonuses and exemptions. [[Applauds]] In seven years of government, you've never been dismantled. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of CPI is the priority problem in this country from an economic point of view, and it needs to be addressed, but not as Citizens. This is a bull and Citizens wants to kill it with suction cups, it is a bull that has to be caught well by addressing real and feasible solutions. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government has announced measures such as, for example, a national plan for the impact on inflation, an income pact, but an income pact, ladies and gentlemen, which means the sacrifices that employers and trade unions will have to make. There has already been a first meeting for this great income pact, but there must also be in these sacrifices the autonomous communities and the municipalities, all the public administrations. The President of the Government is addressing the main factor in the rise in inflation, which is energy. The next European summit will deal precisely with the change of the energy system in Europe. In short, addressing the problem of inflation from the public sphere is to alleviate the most vulnerable incomes. For this we have raised the interprofessional minimum wage by 36%, pensions have been updated with the CPI and a tax reduction in energy has been made that means 5 billion euros of savings in the taxpayer's pocket. Let us therefore address the problem, which is a priority problem, and ask them to cooperate because this must be a great state pact. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u72	Mr. Hurtado, thank you very much. Mrs Martínez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u73	We're working on a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u74	All right. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE SOCIALIST AND VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, CONCERNING ORDERING THE DEFENSOR OF THE PEOPLE TO ESTABLISH AN INDEPENDENT COMMISSION ON THE PREPARATION OF A REPORT ON COMMUNICATIONS BY SEXUAL AbusES IN THE FIELD OF CATHOLIC Iglesia AND THE ROLE OF PUBLIC POWERS. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000950]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u75	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist and Basque parliamentary groups EAJ-PNV, concerning entrusting the Ombudsman with the creation of an independent commission with the task of drawing up a report on complaints of sexual abuse in the field of the Catholic Church, and the role of the public authorities. For the presentation of the initiative, intervenes by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u76	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone, everyone. On behalf of the Basque Group, allow me to address our words in the defence and in the presentation of the non-law proposal to the victims, the victims and their families, who for so many decades have suffered in silence such painful events, who know that we are to accompany them and that we will continue to work until the end, until they can clarify each and every one of the facts, being aware that it will be difficult to repair the damage suffered, a damage suffered moreover in silence. These are sensitive investigations because of the nature of the facts we are talking about, and they are also difficult investigations because it has been a long time since these facts occurred. We are talking about truly painful facts that have strong consequences for the development, health and adult lives of all these people, who, being minors - children and adolescents - have suffered these sexual abuses within the Catholic Church. The purpose of the non-law proposal that we have presented jointly with the Socialist Party is to clarify the facts, because these people - the victims and their families - have the right to know the truth, with truthful data, to recognize and repair, to protect and to prevent. This kind of fact, all of us know that it generates a very important social alarm and that society in general is asking us to approach, to work and to investigate all these facts rigorously, seriously and objectively. Other countries in our socio-cultural environment have already done so. It has been done in the United States, Ireland, the United Kingdom, France, Portugal and Germany with different formulas. But in our view, the most successful formula is that of an independent committee of experts outside those political diatribes. We need to know what is really the entity we are dealing with, the problem in its whole dimension, what are the circumstances that caused it to be generated, that could be given all these cases. What happened? What happened to keep everything quiet? Who did it? Who was it made? Why? All the reasons must be clarified, and mechanisms must also be put in place to redress the damage caused, to protect the victims, and of course, to prevent such cases from occurring again in the future. We have one thing clear: what our group does not want is for it to be a general cause against any collective. As we are blunt saying that the hierarchy of the Church was not up to the circumstances, it has not been up to the circumstances and is not up to it - except in some local cases in which green outbreaks are seen, as has been the case with some of the dioceses in Euskadi -; as we are blunt with this and what we say it has to do a self-critical analysis of what has happened, that they have to participate actively in clarifying the facts, that they have to accompany the victims and that they have to assume the responsibilities of everything that is proved; as we say this, we say that the Church - at least the Basque Church we know - has done and continues to do an important job for disadvantaged groups and for the most vulnerable childhood. You, the Group of the European People's Party, have tabled an amendment in which you say that another series of abuses are being incorporated. They say: and why not also other abuses? For because from our parliamentary group, from the Basque Group, we argue that this fact that we are debating today, these abuses within the Catholic Church have, both because of the territorial dimension and because of the number of cases that have been given, because of the time that has elapsed and for all the years in which they have been provoked, sufficient entity to have a specific line of work for this. We think that incorporating other types of factors, other types of variables, that will have their work lines where appropriate, could distort the good end, the object, the good interest of the initiative that we are presenting to you. The non-legislative proposal that we are presenting to you is in fact a compromise amendment between two non-legislative proposals, the one presented by the Basque Group and the one presented by the Socialist Party, which seeks a centrality and center-value redundancy - the object of the debate so that it can clarify the facts. And what do we want? Let it come out of the pimpampum of this House, out of the political war of this House. What we are demanding, because they are very delicate facts, is that they must be approached with rigour, objectivity and seriousness. Unfortunately, in this House we all know that this necessary context, this environment, does not exist. That is why we call for the creation of this independent commission led by the Commissioner; what we do is to get this out of the political war, but not out of the House, because the Ombudsman is the High Commissioner appointed by this House to defend the fundamental rights and freedoms of people. Therefore, this commission of independents, constituted with experts, with the leadership of the High Commissioner, the Ombudsman, is also the work of this House. In addition, it will present its work as it is being done; it will present in this plenary the fruit of the work and we will all be able to participate in that debate. We believe that it is a good agreement, that it is centrality and, although it has arrived late, we ask that we live up to the circumstances and that we know how to meet the demand and recognition that all victims and their families deserve, as well as society in general. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Calvo Poyato has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. He took the floor on behalf of my parliamentary group. As a socialist and feminist MP, I would have nothing but the manifestations of women and men who are right now on the streets claiming the just cause of feminism, except my obligations as a Member of this House, and even more so as it concerns the issue that we are dealing with in this initiative, a non-legislative proposal that we share with the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[applause]] I am not going to abound in the line drawn by Mrs Gorospe, whom we share and which we subscribe to in all the arguments, and I am going to add something else to address her ladies and gentlemen. In parliamentary politics very few matters require us to address absolutely everyone, each and every member of the House for the purpose it brings us. I've heard a victim say he's an expert in pain, in suffering. It is about putting the victims ahead of absolutely everything: first it is them, and everything else according to them. Depending on them, be experts who listen to them; we will go faster, as our country is giving a slow response to the accumulated suffering of many years. The experts, when they listen, know much better how to respond to what we will then turn into a political debate about the legitimate different positions we share and subscribe to as answers to give. That is why, first, the victims; then, the experts and, thirdly, the policy. As Mrs Gorospe said - my group thanks the Basque Parliamentary Group for leaving us the quota to go faster - we are late. And we are late to a suffering that has had a double calvary: first, the one who assumed to live what they have lived, and then the long time in silence and without answer. We are in a state of maturity of the matter. Other countries have addressed it, resolved it with different formulas; those experiences can also serve us. We are at a time when the Catholic Church itself has changed its position and are willing to cooperate in some way that we will demand very strictly. We need the Catholic Church to provide us with information to do what international bodies are asking us to do in the field of human rights. We talk about minors and we talk about human rights. First, the truth; then, justice and, thirdly, the reparation that the victims deserve. It is about using the power of the state - of its three powers - and of all the public administrations for what they have been waiting for for for a long time. We set up a committee that is independent experts in the expertise with which they are going to work, but it is not a committee that is outside the public authorities, control and rigour with which we work in the public spaces of our democracy. We have a rule of law with very great obligations under international treaties on human rights and the protection of minors. We therefore have an obligation to start the beginning of the end of this unfortunate, very difficult situation. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have to do this from here, from the seat of popular sovereignty, of all our compatriots. We have been asked to agree, to seek unanimity, to seek the meeting between us so that they are on the sidelines. We know that in other countries they have obtained a response after a series of measures ranging from health care policies to health care, including legal reforms that we have to deal with. In fact, in 2021 we already made one that will pave the way for us to deliver justice: that certain very serious crimes do not prescribe in such a short period of time and no one is out of relentless justice against those who dare, in the absolute defencelessness of the minority, to overstep their rights and, of course, to twist their lives. All - I imagine, I hope - we have listened to them; they will be heard in the way they need it, in a public or private way, respecting their desire. This is a situation that other countries have faced, such as the United States, Ireland, France - which is doing so right now - Germany or Portugal. In Portugal, at the head of the listening is an expert in child psychiatry, who is listening. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, this is the moment of empathy, reparation and compassion for what they have been through. It is within the framework of the different institutions of the Catholic Church. It is not a general cause, we cannot pervert it into the dark and vast world of abuse and abuse of minors. We have to focus on a matter that we inherited from the past, which is very slow, which is late; for that reason, we cannot delay. And we must also tell the society to which we serve that the reparation of this situation is an extraordinary warning to society that it cannot touch its minors. We need that to be a message reinforced by all of us, by all of us who here, in the best possible way, serve a society that is alarmed when it thinks that these victims are there without any reparation. Ladies and gentlemen, my group appeals to each and every one of you, to all the parliamentary groups. We would like, and will continue to negotiate, for Thursday the board to respond fairly and empathically to the pain we hear when we face the victims. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u80	Madam President. Get out of the way. Good afternoon. My first words are for today, 8 March, International Women's Day, a day that, beyond celebrating what has been achieved so far thanks to the feminist struggle and the personal commitment of many women, is a day that puts on the table the challenges of the future and the rights to conquer that we still have. And I would like to send a clear message to recognize the value of what is essential, of care, of that invisible, unvalued and discriminatory work; a clear message to put an end to the massive discrimination suffered by women domestic workers and to demand that the State ratify and implement ILO Article 189 and put an end to the situation of semi-slavery suffered by thousands of women domestic workers. [[applause]] That is how we asked in the PNL that we presented and that was approved a month ago in this Congress. We continue to wait for the Government to meet that requirement, which cannot wait another day. Today we speak of other invisibles, of others silenced: the victims of the abuses of the Catholic Church, abuses silenced for decades even being a reality lived by thousands of people during their childhood and adolescence; a hidden reality, unpunished, but undoubtedly in the lives of those who have suffered it has been recorded forever. During the last few months, the victims have raised their voice, put them in the face of this terrible reality, have recounted their hard experiences and have exposed decades of impunity, an exercise of incredible courage that, in addition to thanking, we are sure will help many more victims of these abuses to overcome their shame, stigma, silence to which they have been condemned for decades. They, the victims, have brought a clear demand to this Parliament and to the political groups that make it up: to put an end to the cloak of impunity that protects the Church and those responsible for these abuses, to investigate and clean up everything that has happened, to bring truth, justice and reparation. Responding to this reality and listening to what the victims of abuse are demanding, different groups have put forward proposals that, while they have been able to be understood as disjunctive, have a lot in common, and that is what we want to highlight. Most of us believe that sexual assault in childhood and adolescence is a serious problem of violation of the rights of children. Also, most of us share that it affects us all and all as a society, and that persons who are victims of abuse in institutions dependent on the Catholic Church have the right to the full truth, to be recognized as victims and to be protected with due reparation. That we share all this has great value. Starting from this common basis, it is imperative to create a commission that investigates and gives light to what some representatives of the Catholic Church still strive to hide, even to deny: break with silence and impunity, as the victims are asking us, also respecting those who wish to preserve their privacy. That must also be a shared element. Therefore, our maximum is and will be to respect all of them, all of the victims and all of their requests and needs. Ladies and gentlemen, some need privacy, privacy, to recount their hard experiences; others will prefer to do so publicly, and others will need to hear what has happened in order to be able to recognize themselves and move forward. We sincerely believe that we must respect them all, offering them all the instruments they wish. That is why we want to urge all groups not to deny the voice to any, that they can all express themselves freely through the tools and spaces they consider. [[The Lord]] We would like to reach an agreement to give all of them a voice from a private committee led by the Ombudsman, but also in a public parliamentary space, a specific non-permanent committee, as we proposed in our amendment, for all victims who wish to report on what has happened in society. There's no reason not to allow them both. That political differences, that hidden partisan interests and reasons with the Church - not everything so hidden - do not prevent respect for all victims of abuse and their desires. We hope, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and PSOE, that they will not be denied the option of doing so publicly to those who wish to do so and that we can reach an agreement to make it a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u81	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u82	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. We all know and are aware of the great social function of some ecclesiastical institutions such as, for example, parishes in many municipalities, but this is not incompatible with recognizing that many cases of sexual abuse of minors have occurred within the Catholic Church for decades, as well as that public authorities have looked elsewhere. It is the victims themselves who ask us, their representatives, to help them to give light and reparation. There are thousands of victims affected by such serious events, which have left them with significant consequences. And our obligation is to give them answers and investigate it, just as we must also investigate all cases of sexual abuse and assault committed in the field of sport, cinema or politics. In many countries it has been thanks to the media as all or much of the cases of pederasty in the Catholic Church have been exposed, since the public institutions themselves have done absolutely nothing. In Spain, officially, there are almost no cases of pederastia; together with Italy and until recently Portugal are the countries that most deny them. The Spanish Bishops' Conference itself has been denying them for years and, if it recognizes any, says they are a minority. And the reality is that the State has never been concerned about the issue either. In other countries it has been the same Church, the Government or the courts that have undertaken investigations in this regard. The result of the independent inquiry commissioned by the Church in France is the largest scandal of abuse in the Church since it broke out in the United States in 2002. This investigation has accounted for 216,000 victims and at least 3,000 accused priests. In Spain, the total or actual number of cases is unknown, some of them not so many years ago. The newspaper El País has done a good job in that regard by accounting for and bringing to light, today, 611 cases and 1246 victims. If we analyze how sexual abuse and assault are being investigated in the Catholic Church in other countries, we see, for example, that in Germany for years they have been being investigated through a commission of inquiry promoted by the Church and that it concludes in 2018 that, until 2014, more than 1600 priests had committed sexual assault against 3600 minors. In France, as I mentioned earlier, a commission of inquiry was launched, at the initiative of the Church. In Portugal, recently, on 11 January, the Portuguese Bishops' Conference presented an independent commission of inquiry to investigate cases of sexual abuse of minors in the Portuguese Catholic Church between 1950 and 2022. In Poland, unlike other countries, the commission investigating sexual abuse in the Church is not driven by the religious authorities themselves, it is a state commission promoted by the government itself in 2020. This commission has already submitted 55 reports to the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office. And finally, in Catalonia, just a few days ago, the parliamentary groups of Esquerra Republicana, CUP and commons promoted the creation of a commission of inquiry in the Parliament of Catalonia To know the whole truth, purify the responsibilities and open a process of reparation to all victims of sexual violence. The PNL that the Basque Nationalist Party and PSOE bring us here is decaffeinated. It is decaffeinated because it does not respond to the main demand of the victims, which is to publicize their stories. The victims want to be able to explain firsthand what happened, how they felt and how they want to be repaired. That is why we, Euskal Herria Bildu and United We can, have tabled an amendment to respond to these demands, a truth commission and a non-permanent subcommittee or commission within the Committee on Justice, because it is not - and, finally, President - a question of putting any medal or partying on a subject as sensitive as this, but of listening to and repairing the victims because it is a question of human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u83	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u84	President, ladies and gentlemen, today I wanted to begin by addressing the victims of sexual abuse in the Church who have accompanied us during these weeks to thank them for having marked the way. Thank you, José Luis, Leonor, Alejandro, Mariví, Manuel, Pepe, Jose, Ernesto, Antonio, Vicky, Betty, Pilar, Fernando, Marcos, Koldo, Mikel, Jesus and the rest. Thank you for your patience, courage, generosity, for taking a step forward and losing fear, for your lesson in courage and commitment. Thank you very much. All this time we have learned a lot from you and from you. We have learned that there is nothing more cruel than an adult who, taking advantage of your trust, sexually abuses you and yourselves. We have learned that these crimes may have been prescribed for the courts, but not in your memory. Your pain, your wounds and sequelae never prescribe; they are crimes so deplorable that their cruelty not only challenges you and you, but also us and us. They are an indelible stigma in the history of humanity. Those crimes have responsibility, their perpetrators, but they also have coverts, who have looked elsewhere. The Church has not been fulfilling what the Pope is asking for for for a long time; it has not opened its archives, denied its responsibility and trivialized the gravity of the facts. Faced with that attitude, we cannot stand idly by. These abominable facts cannot be buried under the walls of the churches; we must open windows and doors to make a genuine investigation that achieves four objectives: the first, to know the whole truth; the second, to cleanse responsibilities; the third, to make preventive public policies so that this never happens again, and, the fourth and last, to repair the pain that has been caused to you, the victims, and also to recognize it as such. Today we are a little closer to achieving that goal, and that merit is not ours, it is yours and journalists like those in El País, who have long brought this problem to light. We are being questioned by the state-level parties, and that is why we, together with Esquerra Republicana and Bildu, have moved to the table and put on the table a proposal. But there is nothing to be proud of; on the contrary, I think today is an opportunity to apologize to you, the victims. I'm sorry because the State, its institutions, this Congress, are late, because they are many years of silence, of inactivity; I'm sorry because we have not only failed you, but we have arrived late and bad. You have asked us to agree and these days we have given a pitiful spectacle. You have signed a manifesto in which you asked for the two tracks to prosper, the path we are defending and the path that the PNV and the Socialist Party of the Ombudsman are defending, and for the time being our path has failed. We have proposed an amendment to try to reach that agreement. We believe that we need to pass a law, we need to have a debate here that serves to pass a law that then allows us to create a genuine truth commission with legislative powers, and that is not the Ombudsman, but not because we say so, but because the Ombudsman himself says so. He's been asked to do that research for years, and he's always given that answer. And that is what the Greuges Synod in Catalonia has also said, which is the equivalent of the Ombudsman there. He said that it is not enough, that it is not true with the Ombudsman or with the Greuges Synod, that we have to intervene, that the protagonist must be here. That is why we propose that a parliamentary committee be set up so that we can listen to the experts and that, then, that allows us to create a law, the legal framework that allows us to create that truth commission. There is a risk that all this will be left in nothing and will generate disillusionment, demobilization in civil society and that we will take the matter out of the public agenda to make an impotent patch. I'm done, President. I believe that the victims deserve an effective solution and that is why we will try until the end to reach that agreement. The victims deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we express our affection and solidarity with all the victims who suffer and have suffered abuse and those who support them daily. For the People's Party, the protection and defence of the interests of the child must always prevail. Therefore, from the party we demand that the facts affecting all children and adolescents be investigated without exception, regardless of the physical, legal, public or private nature of the cause of the abuses, as reflected in our amendment and, in addition, other countries have adopted. [[applause]] Because if we investigate some abuses and others not, depending on ideological motives, or if we report some abuses and others not, we will send a message that there are first and second victims, and that, in addition to generating a sense of impunity for the perpetrators, is a weak favor in the fight against that scourge. Therefore, in November 2021, we ask the Ombudsman to investigate the abuse of minors in centres dependent on the autonomous administrations in the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Community in the face of the government's inaction and the refusal of the left to approve a commission of inquiry. Today we continue to know with horror, by the dripping of statements of the thirteen accused, the so bad way in which the facts were hidden because the abuser was the husband of Monica Oltra, vice president of the Socialist government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot understand, after listening to the proponents of the initiative, that they do not take our proposal into account, that is, that all victims of abuse should be investigated. There is no more deplorable attitude for us than when public administrations and responsible governments keep an accomplice and agonizing silence. Once again, the usual double standard of the left, sectarianism, is evident. We welcome the fact that the Episcopal Conference has taken a step forward in the transparency and reparation of the victims, and that, in addition to the actions already under way, it has commissioned an external and independent audit of a prestigious law firm that will collaborate with the Ombudsman, as has been published. In other words, a step further initiated in 2001 with the adoption of its first law with which it opened in dioceses and religious institutions offices for the protection of minors and the submission of complaints, regardless of the date of commission of the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, the victims must be compensated for the damage caused and the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that they do not repeat themselves. Faced with the belief that these complaints harm the Church, she herself has admitted that what really harms her is the lack of transparency, concealment and mistrust of the victims, just what the Baleares and Valencian Community administrations practice, when all they are concerned about is protecting the abusers because of their political, ideological or marital ties, and the most delectable example we have in Mónica Oltra. [[Applauds]] Well, in the People's Parliamentary Group the Ombudsman considers a valid instrument for the investigation of these cases, as we did when we asked that the cases of Baleares and the Valencian Community be investigated. We trust that professionals of recognized prestige and independence and specialists in this field will be chosen to form the commission that really serves to repair the victims and put an end to the abuses. As for the conclusions and recommendations, we hope that, in addition to being applicable to the Church, they will also be applicable to the public authorities and in all areas where abuse occurs. As ANAR points out, it is in the nearest environment - that is, that of the family and that of the practice of sport - where the greatest number of abuses occur. With regard to research and information, it should be extended rigorously to all areas - we insist - and we also hope that the findings of the investigations undertaken by the Ombudsman's Office in the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Community will serve to strengthen the protection measures for children and adolescents who have been failed by some of their representatives. Ladies and gentlemen - and with this term - we are faced with a very complex reality, with many aspects that must remain outside ideological sectarianism. Our aim must be to give a voice, but, yes, to increase the protection and redress mechanisms of each and every victim and, finally, to carry out as many measures to prevent and detect these terrible behaviors as are necessary to prevent them from occurring. In this will always be the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u87	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and say that on the part of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we are going to vote in favour of your initiative. I don't suppose anyone will be surprised, since liberals are practically the only group in this House that we support, always and in any case, to investigate, prosecute and condemn any crime of sexual abuse, whether in centres for minors in Baleares and Valencia, in the Community of Madrid or in the Church's environment. [[rumors]] In Citizens, what we see is the importance of defending the victims; we put the victims above us at all times. We try to apply the same coherence that we impose when dealing with any other initiative, more if it is in this case so painful and disgusting, really. We look uniquely and exclusively at what, without looking at who. The scandals, the sexual abuse committed against women and children, the victims in these cases must be the real protagonists. This is a great drama. They must be at the centre and be the end of our political action, without looking at who and using their pain to attack the political adversary or an institution with millions of faithful in our country. Whoever has done it, pay it, investigate it, let the entire weight of the law fall on the people who have committed any kind of crime. That's the position of Citizens. In Citizens we call for the investigation of sexual abuse of minors in the Church's environment and do not understand that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Podemos Group call and reject commissions of inquiry on sexual abuse of minors protected by the governments of the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Community, as we have repeatedly called for. [[Applauds]] In fact, we were rejected, on the part of Minister Belarus, the request for an appearance where Citizens what we wanted was to expose a problem that we believe to be structural. Something fails in the centers, but sometimes we like to look at the navel and not look for real solutions when we have to look for data, aim at what would be a change in work strategies and really protect minors. Then we say no; it's not my competition. If it is not our competence to look at a state obligation that our State has to protect all minors and, above all, those under its responsibility, why are we here, ladies and gentlemen? This is the question I sometimes ask myself. We will, of course, vote in favour of this initiative for respect for the victims, for coherence and for conscience. But besides that, I want to make some reference. We have a law, the childhood law, and I want to remember what our commitment to it is. It obliges the public authorities to provide all necessary measures to clarify the facts - as presented in this GNP - and to establish appropriate compensation mechanisms for the victims of these infamous acts. Let us all be consistent with that legislation and, in addition, regardless of the religious beliefs of deputies and senators representing citizens in the General Courts, this issue does not deal with dogmas or beliefs that, legitimately, each and every one of us has at an individual level. The facts that are now being discussed affect the rights, duties and freedoms of people, foundations of our political system apart from moral convictions. That is why I am addressing the People's Parliamentary Group and VOX directly. The convictions that each and every one of us profess should not be an element that serves as an excuse and prevents us from exercising our work as representatives of the people. We must not forget what our work is. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX, some of you applauded me - I think with some irony - when in this Chamber I defended, in front of the Government, that minors were being differentiated according to whether the aggression had been received by the father or mother; I believe that in that there was a reason for discrimination that you shared. Minors cannot be discriminated against. If minors cannot be discriminated against for and facilitated by the orphan's pension, clearly there must be no discrimination in this case either, depending on who has abused them. What do I mean? That victims must be protected, that minors who receive abuse must be protected, come from whom they come, and in that no one in this House should be profiled, either side or other; I repeat, neither side or other. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Depending on the institution? It's the same thing. What we have to do is to improve our country and we will do so much better if we are able to protect children as they deserve. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG will support the proposal, despite recognizing the limitation of the formula brought to us by the Socialist Party and the PNV. We will do so because we believe that it is time to open the investigation, with public impulse, of a problem that has been hidden for decades, such as sexual abuse of children and adolescents, which is precisely the violation of human rights of the most helpless by the Catholic Church in recent years, while all public institutions, starting with justice, were looking elsewhere. But how do we recognise that limitation, we are also going to support the amendment proposed by Bildu, Esquerra and UN We can, so that it is expanded, so that a truth commission is created, so that a non-permanent commission is created, or that, within the Committee on Justice, a subcommission is created that allows the impetus to determine not only the responsibilities, but also the public policies that must be carried out to ensure truth, justice and reparation. We will not defend or vote on the amendment by the People's Party, because, once again, as institutions such as the Galician Parliament have already done, attention is intended to be dispersed. We are clear that justice must pursue all sexual abuse of children, wherever it occurs, but in this case we believe that what needs to be done is to end that space of impunity that many members of the Catholic Church have enjoyed for decades. That is what this is about, and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposal and the amendment of these three political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u92	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the first words of this speech today have to be to commemorate Women's Day, of course the day of the demand for feminism, but the issue we are dealing with today is also of the utmost importance. I want to emphasize, first of all, solidarity with all victims of sexual abuse and aggression. It is clear that the proposal for a law that arises here faces one of the problems, one of the most important challenges facing this society, and it is not only solidarity, but also a commitment to clarify these facts; a commitment to clarify them rigorously and with true information. Therefore, they are works that have to go in the line of being able to achieve compensation for the defencelessness suffered, to pose the possible reparation and to bet on reparation and prevention in the future. This is not a new path, it is the path of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, of article 3 of the United Nations Convention or of the recently adopted by all of us Organic Law 8/2021, on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents. Therefore, from these prisms, from this work already done, it is now up to us to face an important cause, and it seems to us that the method is this of truthful information and rigour. It seems to us that the method is to entrust this work to the Ombudsman, like other reports he has made at other times, with an independent advisory committee and to put light and stenographers in a report with the right conclusions and the right recommendations. On the basis of these conclusions and recommendations, I am sure that our legislative action can be much more effective with this prior analysis done rigorously and truthfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u93	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u94	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In Junts per Catalunya, the first thing we want is to focus the problem of sexual abuse in childhood and adolescence as a very grave scourge of our society. It is not only a problem of public health and of violation of the rights of children, but a problem of society as a whole that must be addressed with decisive political decisions, beyond bias and preconceived discourses. For this reason, we must go to maximum. We do not understand why the Socialist Party strives to pass the ball to the Ombudsman when it is possible to agree on the creation of a genuine truth commission. In any case, the referral to the Ombudsman and to the committee of experts which it sets up must be reinforced with the maximum powers and the resulting report must open a process here, within the framework of this House, with all the consequences. We are faced with an atrocious reality because of the vulnerability of the victims, because of the number of people affected and also because of the extent of the phenomenon, which runs through family, educational and also, and with particular relevance, institutions such as the Church, where more than a thousand victims have been documented. Extreme right-wing Spanishism considers it an aberration that the Congress of Deputies can set up a commission of inquiry. We say that abuses must stop being things that happen and that go unpunished, and that the victims must know that the institutions are at their side. For this reason, as in other European countries, the Parliament of Catalonia unanimously approved, already in the previous legislature, the creation of a commission of inquiry on abuses in schools, a first step, and in this legislature the creation of the commission of inquiry is being processed to establish the truth of pederasty within the Church. We insist, it must go to maximums, are not worth the intermediate paths that do not ensure an effective solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u95	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u96	With the venom. This GNP addresses a question of the greatest moral gravity, such as that of sexual abuse in childhood and adolescence, which should not, we consider, be the subject of political treatment in the worst sense of this term, namely, that which is circumstantially suitable for political parties. We start from the disgust they cause and the punishment that these abusive behaviors deserve, as well as from the suffering and pain of the victims, but we believe that the proposing groups and the rest of the House groups will share with us that these criminal behaviors must be judged by the judges, who have done so and will do so in accordance with the criminal laws. In order to veto that they are not tried on the basis of the statute of limitations, the applicable rules have been amended to delay the initial limitation period, which has recently been done on the occasion of the processing of the Organic Act on the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents, a law to which VOX objected, although it voted in favour of the reform of article 132.1, third paragraph, of the Criminal Code on this matter, which extended the statute of limitations on the basis of the determination of die to quo from the age of thirty-five years, if the victim has suffered abuse when he was a minor, and when he died before that age, from the date of death. Moreover, in the legal sphere, we have some difficulty because of this proposal for a law, and it is this strange recourse to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman is, in accordance with article 54 of the Constitution, a commissioner of the General Courts for the defence of the rights recognized in the first title, textually stating the precept: '... for the purpose of which he may supervise the activity of the Administration'. The Catholic Church is not a public administration in Spain nor does it form part of the public organization, unlike in some secular State, whose democratic character cannot be doubted, such as, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany, which is so because the Fundamental Law of Bonn, in force, refers to the precepts of the Constitution of Weimar, articles 136 to 141, establishing in 136.5 that it will be public corporations that were in the past, in homage to a national tradition of signposting. In addition, the German constitutional jurisprudence has wanted to emphasize that this character of public law corporation of the most relevant churches or churches, among others, the Catholic one, is due to serve general interests in education, in the field of spiritual assistance, in general, of hospital assistance, of assistance to the most needy, etc., the same can be said about what is happening in the Austrian Republic. The latter leads us to wonder why this initiative has no limits either in time or in space. How long do you think I'm investigating the Ombudsman? Only in Spain? Until the constitution of the Church? And, curiously, intended exclusively for the Church. This is a sort of law of historical memory and/or democratic memory in ecclesiastical terms clearly guided by similar, politically unacceptable purposes, and we are not surprised that you defended it in this rostrum, on behalf of the Socialist Group, Mrs Calvo Poyato, who is the queen of democratic and other memory laws, as is known. [[Applauds]] Why are abuses not investigated in the educational sphere in general, not only in the Catholic confessional? Because you will not deny that there have been them and, unfortunately, there will be them. Why is it not researched in the sport field? Why is it not researched in the artistic field? In all of them, the existence of abuse is notorious. You'll tell me: not minors. Minors and non-minors, on the basis of what happens in each circumstance. Why is the State, responsible for some of these areas, not investigating itself? Well, we don't know. [[Applauds]] You, the proposing groups, need to shut up about your relationship with the Catholic Church in the past, which is a criminal or collaborative relationship with crime. I refer to the republican governments of Largo Caballero and Negrin, in which, by the way, Manuel de Irujo of the Basque Nationalist Party participated. Finally, the Catholic Church - contrary to what has been said here - has already commissioned a study to investigate the abuses that have been committed by clergy and religious to a law firm in Madrid. We trust that this office will carry out this study and we also trust that, as a result of this study, the Catholic Church will fully repair, to the extent possible...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u97	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u98	... victims who have not been compensated for having met certain legal deadlines by the courts. Nothing more. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u99	Thank you. Mrs Gorospe and Mrs Calvo, do your groups accept some of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u100	President, we're negotiating.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u101	For now there is nothing; we are with the text presented in the non-legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u102	All right. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u103	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the steps to be taken by the Government to ensure that its strategy and measures against COVID-19 are based on science rather than opportunism. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u104	Mr. President, come on. Ladies and gentlemen, a personal note. My work as a hematologist and Chernobyl headquarters have led me to collaborate with my colleagues in Kiev. Let me send from here my words of support to Dr. Dyagil, Dr. Lopina and Dr. Dmytrenko, Dr. Krasnow, Dr. Timoshenko, Dr. Bazyka and Dr. Klimenko, and so many others who are taking care of their compatriots and fighting for their freedom in the face of Putin's bloody dictatorship. [[Applauds]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone had come up to this rostrum and said that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has ended - total, 150 dead a day - and from now on we will consider it an incident and we have decided that we will not report, you would take your hands to the head, right? Well, the government of Sánchez and Darias wants to make an information blackout and end the epidemic by decree. And I'm afraid the virus may disagree. The motion we put forward, ladies and gentlemen, to launch a national database against the open-source epidemic is based on three pillars: first, the sixth wave is in decline; second, we are going to enter a truce period, and third, the truce is likely not to be permanent. Therefore, we must be prepared. Today is March 8, the 2020 date that the Carlos III Institute of Health - not me - defined as the shooting date of the epidemic, the shooting date of Wuhan's coronavirus, because it was Communist China who blamed the virus and West - and especially the Spanish government - for letting it in. [[Applauds]] That shot has killed thousands of women and their partners and their parents and grandparents. And VOX won't forget you, and we won't forgive you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] This epidemic, Mr President, has been that of misinformation; and I am not referring to that of the ignorant, nor to the bots of Xi Jinping or Putin, nor, I am referring to the most important, that of the government and that of its autonomous governments. They have all varied case definitions depending on whether or not they had reactive devices, altered measurements and broken the continuity of the time series, tricks that have prevented consistent follow-up and therefore analysis and criticism. The sanitary tariff service has prevented us from having a common database two years after the epidemic, and the darkness of information has allowed them to give terrifying or optimistic messages depending on their partisan interests. They have continued to frighten us in the sixth wave with the same intensity as at the beginning of the epidemic, despite the success of vaccines and the lesser lethality of omicron, which is currently 0.9% of those infected. From our group we make it very clear, we demand the truth and we do not want dictators who pretend to know it when they ignore it. Ladies and gentlemen, decision-making in politics must be based on true information, and democracy is based only on an educated and informed people. Already since June 2020, statisticians and epidemiologists have realized that one could contribute to the fight against the epidemic if one had a database, one national; two anonymous; three open-source; and four, with free access to any citizen and allowing researchers to collaborate with this poor Ministry of Health that we have, weakened by health transfers. These researchers indirectly exposed us to this motion, because it is very likely that Communist China will infect us again. Ladies and gentlemen, we still ignore many things about COVID-19, we ignore fundamental things. We need to know all the individual conditions that influence their severity, the efficacy and toxicity of vaccines, in post-COVID syndrome. We need to know exactly who we need to protect and who we don't; we need to know when we need to act and when we don't. That is why we need the truth, and that information will enable citizens to defend themselves against the authoritarianism of the rulers of all parties. Look, as a doctor, I've almost never imposed anything, I've given recommendations; as politicians, in this epidemic we must all do the same: recommend. Our compatriots want to know the truth to make their own decisions, finally, ladies and gentlemen, to be free, and we could approach the truth, ladies and gentlemen, with this tool that we propose. It is a feasible tool, ladies and gentlemen, that Excel that we all use can admit a 1,049 000 rows and almost 17,000 columns. Of course, it is the health authorities who have to fill that database, and that is the secret, because an open database not only informs, but forces the rulers to give true and verifiable information. We need it not only for SARS-CoV-2, but for future epidemics to come, to come. Ladies and gentlemen, this moment of truce that has given us the virus and the effectiveness of vaccines is the time to prepare for difficult times. It is not the time for blindfolding, but for continuous monitoring of what is happening and for all Spaniards to know it in real time. What we propose is ambitious, but Spain has proven to be a leader in many things in medicine and we can be a leader in this too. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to support this motion and not to be carried away by the flags, but simply to think whether or not the proposal is good for the Spanish. Press the green button; the red one today is more than ever very despicable. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u105	Thank you. In defence of the amendment put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Velasco Morillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u106	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The COVID-19 pandemic has revealed the structural weaknesses and weaknesses of public health surveillance and has highlighted the need for its urgent transformation to adequately respond to present and future health risks. The opinion of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction, adopted in this House, reflects the need to strengthen public health surveillance and the development at the level of the autonomous communities of public health structures equipped with the human, technological and budgetary mechanisms necessary for the effective performance of their functions, including public health surveillance, a surveillance that has not been done well and on which, after more than two years of pandemic, the Government has done nothing. It has not put in place a health information system that not only has to do with infectious disease, but it is an integrated information system, which is the key; a system that gives equity, but also gives information to professionals, scientists and citizens; a system that takes into account all the pathologies, with standards and indicators, that includes all health information, not only in epidemics and pandemics, a genuine health information system, in accordance with article 55 of the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System. To this end, it is necessary and urgent that the comprehensive and quality public health agency be established and operationalized, thus responding to a need for the health system. The lack of clarity and reliability in the figures offered by the Government has been the general focus of this health crisis. We could recall the image of Spain in international media, such as the Financial Times, which spoke of the failed data of Spain when we misreported the data of the deceased. We might recall that today we do not know how many people have died by the COVID; the Ministry of Health offers some figures - yesterday 100 574 -; the National Institute of Statistics, others; the MoMo system of the Carlos III Institute, others, and the autonomous communities themselves, others. It is not acceptable that in a country with a high level of health care we do not have a single information system, an information system that contemplates how many health professionals have become infected. Are there just over 215,000 or are there some more? Two examples, ladies and gentlemen - dead people and health professionals infected by COVID - where a government has seen the nullity of transferring real data to us; two examples - I could talk about many more - that lead us to demand a government to work to improve health information systems to have orderly, detailed, open data and to allow their computerized treatment to help fight the next epidemics and improve our health system. We have a government that has learned nothing from its mistakes, has learned nothing, and has to make self-criticism. Even though we are in a pandemic, if we have another crisis, the public health surveillance system would be like at the beginning of this pandemic. The solution we met last week to provide health information once a week does not help anything. We need a genuine epidemiological surveillance system that integrates the information transmitted at all levels of care and, in addition, interconnected with the microbiology services of the health network. The People's Parliamentary Group has tabled an addendum amendment to improve the initiative of the VOX Parliamentary Group, but it has not been launched, as we already reminded Mr Steegmann in the debate on this same initiative last week in the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs, and I am grateful that he has taken it into account. A pandemic like the one we have experienced is a demonstration of the need for real and reliable data to know the extent and depth of the spread of the disease. Data should provide unitary and consistent data, accessible and up-to-date data. The information provided on public websites should help to strengthen the transfer of the system and not the other way around, as is the case. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, where is the audit undertaken by the Government on the management of the pandemic? It's still not a reality. Are they going to do it sometime? Will it be when the pandemic is over? Before? With regard to computer systems, we could also talk about the system of choosing candidates for a specialized health training place. Will the government take into account the demand of the next candidates for an MIR square? Will your choice be possible in real time? Today, like March 8, I can't get off this rostrum without congratulating all my fellow health workers who make us proud of their great work in the health of our country every day. And my solidarity with Ukrainian women too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u107	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion is a consequence of the call made by Mr Steegmann Olmedillas to the Government at the control session held two weeks ago, and which was thus answered in this way by the Minister of Health, poses with absolute certainty different measures to provide transparency and reliability to Spanish society on data relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. Exactly two years ago, just as today, March 8, the government kept a secret that the coronavirus was already ringing all over Spain. Moreover, by putting his political interests ahead, he authorized the holding of dozens of mass demonstrations on the occasion of the celebration of International Women's Day, which became a major multiplier focus of the disease's infection. The Ministry of Health has ignored since the end of January 2020 the pandemic alerts that the World Health Organization has been giving. He also ignored and ignored the tragedy already experienced in other European countries, the case of Italy, a country with regions with collapsed hospitals and the absence of beds and sufficient staff trained to attend to the flood of patients with severe respiratory diseases in intensive care units. To the official denial of the first weeks of the contagion, the concealment of the data on the unceasing number of deaths was later added. In fact, to date - as has been recalled - the Government continues to make up the mortality resulting from these two terrible years of pandemic, not to mention the political refrigeration undertaken against the health management of autonomous communities with non-socialist governments, the case of Madrid, governed by the People's Party, which on many occasions highlighted the erratic, sometimes contradictory, measures adopted by the Executive of Pedro Sánchez, which made its reports, televised from the Moncloa, a perverse use of political power, and with the media swallowing. For history there is the unconstitutionality of successive decrees of state of alarm, the biggest cut in citizens' rights in these four decades of democracy. For history there is also the grievous official propaganda that falsely gave up the virus and the costly advertising campaigns of the Stronger Outings. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before the Government of deception, lies, whoredom and ruin. It was not only evident with the pandemic, but also; just see what the PSOE-United Coalition We can commit in energy matters and compare it with the historical prices that the Spaniards are paying today for electricity, gas or gasoline. They were already record figures many weeks before the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops began, and now the war economy finds us with very low guard and with the passage changed as a consequence of a management that dragged us to the renunciation of Spain's energy sovereignty. Inflation is in the clouds and the economic vice president is also in the clouds. The health crisis of the COVID-19, combined with the energy crisis and which we are faced with to deal with the humanitarian crisis and the impact of the war, will again strain our health system, which remains exhausted, without relief and with precarious means to carry out its work. More than 215,000 infected health care workers, one of the highest in the world, reflect the lack of defence resulting from poor management of hospitals, which also leads to primary care. In any case, certain acts are necessary in the service of science instead of this pandemic tissue which converts the figures to the liking of the government and against the general interest. How will nothing be properly planned in the health system if the data are made up to the convenience of the Government? What strategies can work when Birlibirloque's art is taken as a course of conduct? Can you surprise someone who is moderately informed that in a critical period for health the autonomy has stopped spending 3000 million euros of the COVID Fund, a fund created to strengthen the health system at its most delicate time in history, and they give back nothing less than 3000 million euros to Mrs Montero, who is responsible for public finances? I conclude by reiterating my vote in favour of this motion, so that, as proposed, even with very precise technical details, science can combat COVID-19 with accessible and accurate databases and society can understand with transparency and clarity the impact of coronavirus and its different variants in Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u109	Thank you. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u110	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Soon. Mr Steegmann, you are bringing us today to debate a motion that may seem new to many less people for whom we are in the Health Committee, because the motion that you are presenting with all the luxury of detail, too much even, I say, is a motion that was tabled and debated on 24 February in the Health Committee. It is the non-legislative proposal whose full debate you have here, which has already been voted on, that is, one of two, the VOX is fatal in its initiatives to be able to present here and it doesn't matter and presents anything, regardless of whether it has already been presented fifteen days ago and voted on, or two, you were talking about truthful information and perhaps what is missing is truthful information in your motion's statement. [[shows a Journal of Sessions]] It is not that you or the parliamentary group to which you belong are concerned about the true information; what is being proposed here, what matters to you and what you want - the real intention of this initiative - is to question the decisions taken by the Government in the area of health and in response to the COVID strategy. In the title of the initiative, it says that the measures taken by the Government in its strategy against COVID are based on science and not opportunism, that is, you come to say that the decisions they take have so far been based on opportunism. And you are not going to find us at all in that regard, because that is torturingly using something that, frankly, is very serious and very worrying, and you should not afford the luxury of using it in this way and with this intention something so serious and questioning that the decisions of the Government are actually taken on the basis of science. You may not share health decisions, as we often do; you may not share decisions that have been taken in other areas of the autonomous communities, you may, but saying that they are generally based on opportunism is not sensible. We told you at the time, and you did not reply, that the PNV is always looking towards Europe. I'll tell you exactly the same thing again. We look to Europe, and we understand that this is the space to be built when we are talking about data. There must be a coordinated response and partnerships at European level. We have to move towards a European Health Union, that's what we have to do. The data will have to be made available to those health areas that have competence in this area and will have to be systematically integrated and analysed, and we are making proposals in this regard, with rigour. Do so too, because you know that, in order to give a correct and effective response to pandemics like the one we have experienced or are going through now, fortunately, with much less intensity, the epidemiologically homogeneous territory is in many cases the European Union, and that is where we must respond from. In addition, it has been a reference for us to have coordinated strategies in other health areas, such as oncology or, for example, rare diseases, where we alone have very little mass, but everyone in this European health area, in this European health Union, will be able to provide a much more effective response. Go to the true information, go to the really effective and effective proposals, stop using the torticera of the initiatives I present here and, less so, repeat them in fifteen days. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u111	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u112	Thank you, President. I do not find much connection between this motion and the debate on the urgent inquiry from which it arises. In addition, exactly the same operative part has already been voted on in the committee on 24 February, the birthday of Don Juan de Austria, by the way. In the title of the proposal, however, they say that measures against COVID-19 should be based on science and not opportunism. We agree on that. The Government has acted on too many occasions with propagandistic criteria throughout the pandemic. They treated the pandemic as a communicative crisis. A good example is the invention of happy terms such as the new normality, absolutely empty terms, or the imposition of masks on the outside when everyone knew they were useless, which was based on the need for the Government to appear to be doing something when the incidence increased in the Christmas prolegomens. This attitude undermines the confidence of citizens in the measures taken. It is issues like this that make, for example, the booster dose of the vaccine, which should now be successfully put on like the previous ones, go slower than the others. These are attitudes that give wings to the conspiracy and the antivacuums. However, it is paradoxical for VOX to put on the table the requirement to base political decisions on science. Mr Steegmann knows well that he has all my respect - he is a man of science, very informed and a great hematologist, in whose hands I would put my life without doubt - but science is frequently absent in VOX's political action. Moreover, it is a rather maguff party, which on many occasions puts its prejudices and superstitions before scientific evidence. They have silver medal in mauperia and superstition. The gold one we left to Belarus and Montero, because it is something insurmountable, as they believe that a Russian T90 combat car can stop with feminism. Today, in view of its demand that the Government base its political action and its action against COVID-19 on scientific evidence, I must list examples of VOX anti-science. One, the defense of so-called reversion therapies of homosexuality. How's that? Where is the scientific evidence that homosexuality is reversible, as if homosexuality were an unwanted evil? Look, psychotherapy like this isn't science, it's magic, it's black magic, by the way. Another example is the one I had to listen to at the Health Commission when they said, I open quotes: Children who are pregnant by assisted reproduction are not welcome. I close quotes. There's the Journal of Sessions. Babies who are not welcome. That was said by a Spanish MEP from VOX on the Health Commission. One Member followed in the intervention, I open quotes: VOX opposes artificial fertilization methods that replace the natural act of procreation and introduce third people into the male-female couple. I close quotes. Here, even though they seem to describe an orgy, a VOX deputy described assisted reproduction techniques and opposed them. That reasoning mechanism should lead them to be against glasses, hearing aids, crutches, fillings... because they all involve overcoming a natural evil by means of intellect and illustration. On this path, gentlemen of VOX, you must not continue. Nevertheless, it is true that what they are asking for in the motion is necessary and that the Spanish Government generated real chaos when reporting the death figures of COVID-19 and still today, but they also considered that there were truths that they could not tell. The Minister of Health recommended a second dose of one type of vaccine and the Spaniards came in bulk to put on another. The minister's credit was absolutely settled precisely because she did not do what VOX asked her to do in this motion. Citizenship should never be protected from the truth, because the selection of known facts should never depend on a Government. If someone can't trust a government, he immediately trusts anything. On the other hand, we have seen how the decentralization and dismantling of the Ministry of Health caused different programmatic or data languages to be spoken between administrations and had to be bitten manually. We are therefore going to vote in favour of this motion - we are voting in favour of it in the Commission - although I am already going to tell you, Mr Steegmann, that it is the same motion that you have tabled in the Committee on Health, if you present the same thing and do the same, because the same will happen to you, and I regret that this motion will fall to you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u113	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u114	Thank you very much, President. I wanted to start my speech publicly showing my support and solidarity to the workers of Nordex Acciona, who are fighting against the company for their job, there in La Vall d'Uixó. [[Shows a T-shirt with the motto: 'No to the closure Nordex Acciona La Vall de Uxo'.-Applause]] There are more than a hundred families who can stay on the street for a corporate closure of a company that is having profits. All our solidarity. Let's move on to the motion. Well, it's a demagogy motion, cheap VOX week, like every week. The motion speaks of the strategies and measures that the Government should take against COVID-19 to ensure that they are based on science and not on opportunism. I'd like to turn around. I would say: the stratagems and measures that VOX should take against COVID-19 so that they are based on science and not opportunism. Why is it opportunism or not that Mr Santiago Abascal has not yet said whether he has been vaccinated or has not been vaccinated? Did he say that? [[Rumors]] Science has no doubt, Mr Steegmann, science says that we must be vaccinated and that public people, Members of Parliament and Members - especially Mr Abascal, with the public projection he has - can encourage vaccination by setting an example, saying that we have been vaccinated, that we are on the side of science and not generating doubts. [[Rumors]] What example is VOX giving? Not yes or no, but quite the opposite. [[Rumors]] How dare you talk about science, mixing communism, COVID, China, March 8, Government? How dare you lie in such a brazen way? [[Rumors]] I see the VOX booth wants to talk this afternoon. Whenever I intervene, they feel like talking. I appreciate the love shows I've been given. The secretary general of VOX, Mr Ortega Smith, was the first deputy who gave positive in this Congress. You know what day? March 10th. I'm sure Mr. Ortega Smith had gone to the March 8 demonstration in an enthusiastic way. [[Applauds]] Sure, I'm sure he was infected there. What's the point? Did Mr. Ortega Smith attend on March 8 to celebrate the working woman's day joyfully? I'd say no. Anyway, I don't want to waste any more time on this leftover stew. Look, Mr. Steegmann, I don't doubt your scientific value in your profession, I'll never doubt it, and I'll tell you with all due respect. Now, science is not what you do this afternoon when you're out here; that's not science. That's defamation, bulls, curses, what's now usually called - I don't like it, because I like to use words in Valencian or Spanish - fake news, lies. I'm on my way. Today we have learned that the Directorate-General of the Police has closed the disciplinary file to two national police officers in Benidorm who broadcast a video in which, while on duty, they insulted and vexed a transgender woman. The file was closed just today, and we had asked a question. Three-fold discrimination has been committed here: police officers look at a transgender woman; the Police Directorate-General closes the case, although there is a video where it is clearly seen, and the Government admits that they do not collect data from where this is happening. And meanwhile, the law trans in a drawer. To make him look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u115	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the day that women don't die at the hands of their partners, on the day that diversity is wealth and I don't fear, on the day that no one attacks two boys or two girls on the street with impunity for being held by hand, this world will be a better place. We want to see him and we want to see him now. I reproduce here today, March 8, a few words from Pilar Bardem, a committed woman. [[Applauds]] I come to this, to this initiative that brings us the far right. In March 2020, the Government of Spain made a boast of courage with strict confinement, which was later valued for its great success. In two years of pandemic that we have been experiencing, it has been very hard. Firstly, for those who have died, for their relatives, for many who, moreover, did so without being able to say goodbye. For work and social problems and for many difficult situations. While this was happening, in other countries political parties and parliamentary groups agreed and united their shoulders with their governments. Here the far right and the People's Party were only looking for arguments not to help society, but to go against the government. This was opportunism, Mr Steegmann. But it is also that we remember those demonstrations against the masks, the concentrations that were called freedom, those in the neighborhood of Salamanca with the golf club. You remember, don't you? They're in the hemeroteca, they can look at it. That is the disloyalty that many people in your political group have done in this country at the worst time of our crisis. And then they come here today for data. As the saying goes, after the harvest, baskets. Well, look, I'm going to give you a series of data and figures. As you like, I will give them to you, but to analyze them and to draw conclusions. We have a death rate of 2121.70 per million inhabitants. The Community of Madrid, which has 6.6 million inhabitants, has 17,450 people who have died. Have you already done the analysis and drawn conclusions on those data? I'll give you another number: 16. It is the number of people killed in the Community of Madrid who were perfectly equipped - the Government of the Community of Madrid admitted it - and who were closed at the worst time of the pandemic. Have you analyzed that data? Have you drawn the conclusions? No, because they're from their government-friendly partners, and that's why they don't care about that data. You're interested in other data. I'll give you another number: 41. It is the number of closed health centres in the Community of Madrid. Have you analyzed these data? Have you drawn the conclusions? I will give you more figures: 8000 health professionals fired at the beginning of the sixth wave in Andalusia. Have you analyzed that data? Have you drawn conclusions from that data? [[Applauds]] These are just a few examples of many things you have done at the toughest time in the pandemic. There's the hemerotheque, like I told you. Mr. Steegmann, you can't be in trouble with masks and science. With both things not, with one or another, and I believe that, in your political work, you are closer to pseudoscience. So don't hang up. Don't hang up because at the worst time in the pandemic you haven't been with anyone who needed it the most, with people. You have been making partisan political use of a tragedy that struck all humanity and also this country, and people have memories and know what you did at that time. So, that was opportunism. By the way, as much as you talk about communism, you know that Mr. Biden has become Bolivarian, right?, that he is negotiating with Maduro, right? You know that, don't you? I'm saying that because they'll have to change their arguments. We'll press the red button today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u117	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with a quote from a pro galego: 'What is war? ... A crime against humanity. Yes, a crime that all, absolutely all, and especially us, the workers, for we are their main victims, we must fight.' That Galician was Pablo Iglesias Posse, and go with this quote our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] And, of course, a binding reference to today. He said his leader, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that saying live on March 8 is saying live death. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, living death is your refusal to recognize responsible gender-based violence today of 1132 deaths of women and 46 deaths of minors. [[Applauds]] Mr Steegmann, I say to you, without acrid, that you are taking away an old man's reason and, no doubt, unjust Galician saying I think you will know: small man, wild with poison. You are not small, precisely, but, if not in your person yes in your speech of the past Pleno distills a great toxic burden and, moreover, in a tone that in Galicia we would call fachendosso. I argued it with his own words. You speak, as a colleague, of 'a brigade of left-wing doctors doing the ball'; of a flu, the left-wing doctors said.' You speak, as a doctor, of a brigade of colleagues willing to cause death in the population to the chant of - are your words - 'coronavirus, oeu!'. And it stays so wide. Only this dislate would be enough to remove all legitimacy from his speech. It is also his own phrase: 'When the Wuhan virus killed thousands of Chinese, nothing happened because they were Chinese'. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I advise you not to look for xenophobic speeches outside your group, it will be difficult for you to find them; I suggest you look for them in your electoral programme. [[Applauds]] You said, Mr Steegmann, 'Our parliamentary group speaks louder when it writes'. Mr Steegmann, talking louder doesn't mean you're right. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] And I'm approaching your motion, the data request. You have expressed yourself, Mr Steegmann, with the following tenor: 'You and the nefarious and nefarious autonomy have confabulated to hide data'. I understand that you refer to those autonomy that you support, to Madrid, to Andalusia, to Murcia. Is that all right with you, Mrs. Velasco? Is that all right with you, Mr. Echaniz? You said - it was sown that day - that on the part of the government came out 'a gentleman dressed in uniform and with brushed hair telling us that they were going to monitor the non-addicted to the regime'. When you say 'non-addicts to the regime' do you look in the mirror? Because, then, it will come out. [[Applauds]] And all this in order to present a motion that, in any case, is more in line with a simple written question, which is what they should do so that they can access the information that is publicly disseminated in the CCAES daily reports, in the specific weekly summaries, in the daily vaccination reports, in the open data available and in the test reports carried out. These are reports that you know well. In your interpellation you used an insulting, vexing, outrageous speech, which should not deserve an answer. But the Minister of Health, Mrs. Darias, in addition to shaving him, knew how to hit the right key. Bad news and certainties, the minister replied. Bad news for you, because the state public health centre will be a reality; because the surveillance network will be modernized and updated with funds transferred to the autonomous communities; because the Ministry of Health works tirelessly facing this pandemic and the current and future health threats. Bad news for you, great news for the citizenry. And also certainties. Certainty is the commitment of our healthcare professionals, who do not care to zaherir with their diatribes. Certainly it is the commitment of those autonomous communities, which you want to liquidate. Mrs. Velasco, you too? Mr. Echaniz, do you also want to liquidate them? It is certain to develop the public health law, to which you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, have left in the drawer of oblivion in all your years of government. Certainly, it is a committed Government in which no one is left behind in the greatest health, economic and social crisis, weaving the greatest social and economic shield in our history. 91.1% of the vaccinated population is on a full schedule. Attention, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. The bad policy is that of the ignorant who presumes that he knows to justify what he wants to do anyway, is the dictatorship of the incompetent, and that, ladies and gentlemen, has to change and is going to change. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, please apply Mr Steegmann's words and change at once, although, to be honest, this wish seems impossible to me. That's all. Beauty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u119	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. We appreciate the support, because they've read it, and the others are invited to read it...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u121	Your Honor, you simply have to say yes or no to me; whether you accept the amendment or not, please. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u122	We accept the amendment by the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u123	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on Interministerial Coordination Functions in relation to cesions to INDEPENDENT PARTICIPANTS. [[File number 173/000127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u124	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the functions of inter-ministerial coordination in relation to the transfers to the independence parties. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u125	Thank you, President. Deputies, the sessions of President Sánchez to certain parties and autonomous governments in exchange for his parliamentary support to remain in power are increasing, they are increasing, since the division in government with his partners in Podemos is becoming increasingly evident, not only in the votes we see in this House, but today on International Women's Day, a day of demand but also of remembrance of Ukrainian women, have been expressed separately, in various manifestations. Sánchez has turned Congress into a bazaar in which he trades with the powers of the State, as if they were his own, rewarding disloyal autonomous governments, such as the Catalan, whose leader, the one condemned for sedition and embezzlement, Oriol Junqueras, has pitilessly compared Ukraine with Catalonia, miserably frivolating the enormous tragedy and painful tear that the Ukrainians are suffering, and has made it accompanied by Otegi, another condemned and enemy of Spain, in an unworthy appearance in which they have reaffirmed their destructive alliances and reminded Sánchez that he is dependent on them. This autonomous government has plunged Catalonia into a grave situation of economic ruin, of rupture of coexistence and of social and moral decay. Legal insecurity prevails in Catalonia and the sentences that support bilingualism in teaching are not fulfilled; young people are harassed and attacked in Catalan universities, as we see with the young people of S'ha Afinat!; Constitutionalist parties are prevented from exercising their rights on the public road, having to be protected by the Mossos d'Esquadra; children, such as the Canet de Mar, are harassed and threatened by the demand for education also in Spanish; State security forces and bodies and their own children are harassed, who suffer from the targeting of their teachers and also of the rest of the students; the Civil Guard, the National Police, judges and prosecutors and, in general, all State officials are subjected to harassment, persecution and contempt, which is causing the flight to other destinations in Spain, which is why my group has already proposed on several occasions - the last, in the State General Budgets - incentives to ensure their stay in Catalonia. Currently, the helplessness of the constitutionalists is such that Catalonia has become the only place in Spain where there is no free and normal exercise of many constitutional rights and where its exercise and defense has become a feat or heroic or a judicial pilgrimage. In the face of this grave and desolating panorama, what does the Government of Spain do? Sit down and negotiate with the Catalan Autonomous Government at a table of equals, with separatist leaders, an illustrious strategy of appeasement that only serves to increase the helplessness that we Catalans suffer, with the sole purpose of continuing on the Moncloa armchair. You, the Government of Spain, are strengthening and giving wings to separatism by legitimizing a government that repeats that it will do so again. They cannot reward a minority that violates the laws and deprives half of the population of rights. That is not dialogue, that is surrender and abandonment of their obligations as the Government of the nation. [[Applauds]] The government is tearing down and dismantling the state with concessions to Catalonia and the Basque Country. Sánchez, to continue in the Moncloa, has endangered the future of our pensions by breaking the single social security fund, which guarantees the viability of the pension system by transferring to the Basque Country exclusive competences of the State, such as the social security benefits, whose competence is vested in the INSS, the National Social Security Institute, throughout Spain. The national status of the corps of local government officials, secretaries, intervenors and treasurers has also been charged with transferring it to the Basque Government, an assignment appealed to the Constitutional Court by my parliamentary group. These transfers have also been made through the back door, based on amendments to the State's General Budgets for budgets to come out, paraphrasing Zapatero, in any case. This government of Spain allows tributes to murderers, who the PSOE also supported in this House by refusing to vote against banning them, as my group recently requested, standing on the side of criminals, humiliating the victims and disregarding their pain and their enormous generosity with Spain. [[applause]] It is therefore urgent and essential that the Government break with its separatist and nationalist partners, fulfil its obligations and defend the legality and framework of coexistence that our Constitution gives us, because it is seriously endangering our well-being, our prosperity and our democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u126	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u127	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, little new can be added to what my group thinks about the content of the People's Party motion. Indeed, the clumsy dialogue with Catalonia that the Government talks about when it refers to the divestments to its separatist partners is nothing more than a euphemism not to say pardons for budgets or exemptions in the Court of Auditors for support in Congress or any other of the many components to which the PSOE arrives with those who have as their sole objective and purpose to attack Spain, its institutions and its citizens. Today we are in an international situation that covers the whole debate, as is logical and normal, and it is good, but it must not make us forget also what has happened and continues to happen in Catalonia, where it governs a party presided over by a delinquent pardoned by the Government, despite boasting of not regretting its crime and declaring that it will do so again when it can. It is a community where children and their families are harassed for asking for something as basic as their right to have 25% of classes in their language, and this is done by those who should protect them. Well, it is with those separatists, and not with Catalonia, that the PSOE has that famous table of dialogue, dark, outside Parliament, without control and without transparency. So far we can only agree with what the People's Party motion proposes. But, look, I have also appointed the Court of Auditors because, as you know, the Court has just accepted that Catalan citizens endorse with our money the amounts that the separatists embezzled. Do you know why that happened, gentlemen of the PP? Because you supported the replacement of the members of the Court of Auditors who would not accept that nonsense. They supported her and knew that was the result, because that was what the PSOE was looking for. He got the usual cake. [[Applauds]] And now you are going to allow me to also cite some examples of what the nationalists are doing with the language to which you also refer in Spain. For example, to finance campaigns with public money, with the aim of - abrocomas - involving boys and girls for a certain time in all facets of their life, in the search for the Galician to be the normal language of use in all areas. Another thing that nationalists do is to demand that the general audiovisual law also recognise - I am sure that it is mandatory that the Galician be present in appropriate proportions and that it be present in all media and platforms; for example, to require teachers of music as a mandatory requirement the knowledge of the Galician language, thus preventing the mobility of teachers throughout the national territory. [[Rumors]] Does all this ring a bell? Is that all right with you? Is that okay with you guys? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Yes! All right!]] All right, that's good for you. Because it's being promoted by the People's Party and to whom you have elevated as president, a nationalist. [[a woman MEP pronounces words that are not perceived]] [[Applauds]] Look, it seems very good to us that you speak Galician, but that anyone who wants to talk to you can. We think it's very good that the media is in Galician, but they do. We think it's very good that the music teachers know Galician, but they do. [[Rumors]] Not you, you want to force, you want to force, the contrary to freedom, the contrary to liberalism. [[Rumors]] Can you tell me what the difference is between you and those you criticize? What's the difference? [[Applauds]] I'll tell you. There's a difference, yes. There is a difference: they seek independence; you, power. But there is one thing that is exactly the same: to achieve the ends they seek, they are willing to use any means. [[Rumors]] You, as far as the tongue is concerned... [[Rumors]] Don't worry, it's all right. They can also be told to their faces what many people think about the language they say what they... [[The rumors continue.- Mrs.Angulo Romero utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u128	Mrs. Angulo, please stay, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u129	And while in Valencia they are outraged by the Government's linguistic policies, in Galicia they copy them. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In fact, they were already responsible in Catalonia for allowing the linguistic policy of the Generalitat in exchange for a pact with Pujol. And if what I say is not true, accept our amendment. If they don't accept it, they'll be right. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u130	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[The rumors continue.-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence, please, so that the representative of VOX can speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your motion begins by regretting that the government's handovers to remain in power, in exchange for support and to bring its laws forward, are growing. We too regret it, but I ask you: are you not recognized in these statements? We go with a little historical memory, but not the law that they replicate where they rule because they don't call them what they call us, real memory. Agreements with nationalist parties for the investiture or to support the government began in 1993, when Felipe González had to deal with CiU and PNV. In 1996 Aznar closed the Covenant of the Majestic with Pujol and a long list of decisions, and the PNV collected fruits of the walnut until the Pact of Lizarra. Later, Zapatero supported himself in Esquerra Republicana, the Catalan separatists obtained the new statute, which then fell down the Constitutional Court and in its second legislature resorted to the PNV, just as Rajoy did in his last legislature. In 2018, Sanchez designed the new divestitures for the coup and in 2019 he knew that his governance and his ability to legislate are reduced. Hence, from the beginning of the legislature, he accepted the demands of the separatists, including the unworthy table. Transparency is abandoned, they are seen in secret. [[The lady]] The objective of Esquerra is clear: to break the constitutional order with the holding of a secessionist referendum, seen with good eyes by four of the six ministers. While the Spanish language continues to be attacked, harassing children and families such as those of Canet de Mar, failing to comply with the law on education and its use in the judicial sphere, causing the escape of magistrates, preparing pardons for convicted coupsmen or withdrawing the Spanish flag from a Generality room behind the table, bringing Catalonia to ruin and creating a climate of confrontation, violence and intimidation such as those suffered last Friday by my colleagues Juanjo Aizcorbe and Juan Carlos Segura, as well as other Catalan parliamentarians at a conference at the University of Barcelona. [[applause]] Thank you, brave men! [[Applauds]] In the interpellation Minister Bolaños was very dignified and tried to justify the legality of the table. Look, this table deals with the rights of the Spaniards, who are non-negotiable, which puts Sánchez out of the Constitution, lacking democratic legitimacy to talk about amnesty, self-determination and referendum with coups. You are a danger to Spain and to the Spanish. [[Applauds]] With those who attack the equality of all Spaniards, with those who seek to break the unity of the Spanish nation in VOX we never sit, neither in equality nor in inequality, we apply the law. With separatism, coup and terrorism we do not agree or sit down. [[Applauds]] In his motion, gentlemen of the People's Party, we miss the marketing that is the support received by the successors of those who kidnapped Ortega Lara, murdered and attacked the relatives of my colleagues José Alcaraz, ToniSalvá and Teresa López or several Members present here. [[Applauds]] That is why our amendments are being tabled. The PSOE has always met with ETA, when it was killing and now it needs the support of its heirs. Publish the minutes of the meetings so that all Spaniards know the truth; keeping them hidden is an insult to the victims. Zapatero negotiated with Batasuna the game table after the T4 attack, putting the Loyola Accord on the table. Zapatero and Marlaska already add up to 302 transfers of staves, putting an end to the policy of dispersion without asking for forgiveness or collaborating with justice, and doing so how and when Kubati wants, that is, the direction of ETA. ETA prisoners applaud Sánchez's approach; they say: we no longer need buses. The PSOE is paying the terrorist gang's revolutionary tax for bringing it to power, destroying institutions and trampling on the memory of all victims. Behind Sánchez stands separatism and ETA, ultimately the enemies of Spain; lies as a political strategy, moral and economic ruin; trades with the rights of all Spaniards; the illegality of the states of alarm, unearthed, once again, thanks to the resources of VOX. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u132	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herría Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u133	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, but had you not been moderated? Some disgust is going to take Mr. Feijoo when he sees that they are postulated so ultras, so retrograde. Moreover, this is always going to be earned by their split; their split is purer, more reactionary, this is always going to be won by them. Look, I've had a hard time following the explanatory statement and it's not the first time, I see it's a parliamentary technique. There are great topics and phrases like this, which says: '...for their servility before separatism and in general before those who want to break Spain, humiliate the State and shame the Spaniards'. This is an opinion, I believe that there are Spaniards and Spaniards who are most ashamed of their state will be corruption, latrociny, having an emeritus king who has done evil and who is now in Abu Dhabi. You will also be ashamed, Mrs De Luna, that when you were a government delegate you paid tribute to the Nazi volunteer division, to the Blue Division - I think that embarrasses you a lot - or that there have been and that there are political prisoners, that there are raptors in prison, I think that will embarrass you and even humiliate you. But let's get to the bottom of it. That Spain is a plurinational and plurilingual State is an obvious fact. Everyone has their opinion on how to solve what is called the Spanish problem, rather than the territorial problem. You have some formulas that, from our point of view, make the situation worse, but they are respectable. Now, if we go to the petitum, it doesn't even make sense by agreeing with the postulates you say you have. They talk about suspending the dialogue table, but this is not consistent with their historical journey. You have had dialogue tables with governments from you to you, with self-government governments, but also with other things that were not governments, and there they are. They are now criminalizing dialogue, when they precisely did that shameless thing on 1 October, suppressing a referendum.What did the Council of Europe ask of them? Non-violence and dialogue. And you, now, when a dialogue table is established precisely to lay the foundations on which to be able to resolve democratically, on the basis of the democratic principle, a political conflict as many as there are in the world, stigmatise it. What's more, they say, "Don't do it." In addition, you have decided to rename the table-this is a bit childish, but yourselves -. Then they say, "Don't do it, but if you get the minutes brought to us." This very categorical doesn't seem, really. Secondly, you - this is curious - are interfering in a competition that, according to the constitutional bloc, depends on those autonomous communities that have the competence to educate. You ask the Government of Spain to interfere, in an exercise, I don't know if centralization. I don't know if this responds to a competitive invasion or a mental empanado, but they're not clear, gentlemen of the People's Party. The last point goes in that line too. They say that there is blackmail and that it is being cheated, that it is being trafficked with skills. Forty-two years have passed since the adoption of the Gernika Statute and there are still more than thirty competences left without being transferred, including - Mrs Olona has not been informed - the management of social security, which according to the Gernika Statute depends on or has to be managed by the Basque Autonomous Community. This is according to the constitutional block. So don't talk to us about constitutionalism because either you don't like it or you don't know it. During these last decades it is not that you reproached the Socialist Party, but that you too have been dedicated for four decades to wresting powers under this Statute in favour of votes and the adoption of laws or investiture. This is the level you have of respect for constitutional norms and the block of constitutionality. In short, this is nothing more than a new hunch, but not so much in the background, which I say, we do not share your views and believe that they worsen the situation, but also in the form because it does not respect nor what you claim to defend. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u134	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u135	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group again presents an initiative aligned with the delegitimization of the Government, which has been practicing since the motion of censure, which also reaches some parliamentary groups in this House. To this end, in a insistent manner, it brings to debate matters which, to the extent that they do not coincide with their views, political and ideological ideas, serve as a charge against their political opponents, to lack or even rule against the general interest. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u136	I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, it must be recalled that in a democratic system, such as that defined in the Constitution, in which Parliament represents the sovereign people, the generalized interest is that which defines the House through the principle of majority ownership of proportional systems, and not a sort of natural right embodied in the ideology and public policies that favour the People's Party or those that benefit other parliamentary groups in this House. That can only be described as an illiberal conception of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look briefly at the basis on which the People's Party is based to say what it puts forward in the motion and in the question it brings. Thus, the presence of the Government of the State in the bilateral State-Government Commission of the Generalitat is described as a lack of respect for the principle of institutional loyalty, and is used in the latter to launch improvisations against the Spaniards. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, may not have read everything written about it said and dealt with, but I have not heard anyone say there at any time: A for them. What I would say to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party is that it seems that for you to comply with the Statute of Catalonia and others is a lack of institutional respect. I say this because the bilateral commission that bothers them so much is in article 183 of the Catalan Statute as a permanent framework of relationship between the Government of the State and that of the Generalitat, and the realization of the principle of the structuring bilaterality of relations between Catalonia and the State, as proclaimed in article 3, also of the Catalan Statute. All this was appealed by the People's Party to the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 31/2010 saw no grounds for unconstitutionality. On the other hand, and passing on to another matter, the People's Party returns to bring us the pardons to those sentenced by the Supreme Court for having participated in the so-called process, a matter which, from our point of view, the management of the People's Party only managed to find, dealing with a political demand around a national sense of different belonging not with negotiation and dialogue but with the Police and the Civil Guard, the Criminal Code and prison. That is why, for the Basque Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, the first step to disinflaming what the People's Party has been going through was the granting of pardons, precisely because of public utility. That's how we thought about it at the time, and that's how we keep thinking about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also told by the People's Party that the Government does not enforce the sentences relating to the use of Spanish in the autonomous communities with its own official languages. However, in this matter I have not seen any court or tribunal that has exclusive and exclusive jurisdiction to try and enforce what they have been sentenced to, to direct or give testimony to any authority for this offence of disobedience. Finally, the People's Party questions the unique treatment of the foral regime with regard to bodies with national authority of the local government through paragraph 7 of the second additional law on bases, as amended in the budget law. I would like to point out, because I have almost no time left, that since the beginning of this law in 1983 this additional provision has been observed, we have permanently amended it, and the last time we did it in paragraph 7, in the Montoro law, in the famous LRSAL. We do not know why, when we did it with the PP, it seemed good to them and now that we do it with the Socialist Party, in order to put it into practice, it seems to them a unconstitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u139	Thank you, President. Go ahead and I am not going to be as rigorous, accurate and precise as Mr Legarda has been with his speech, which I fully subscribe to. But when you read the motion as a result of questioning, you read the amendments and think well, you ask yourself: what do I say to your ladies and gentlemen now? [[Laughter]] This motion, from my point of view, can only have one title, is the One Night motion in the opera. Do you remember the movie? Well, I'll remind you of some of the scenes that you probably have in your mind. The PP arrives with his motion: two hard eggs; three infumable points. It comes later Citizens and says: two more hard eggs; two more smoky points. And finally, VOX arrives and says: two more hard eggs. The first ones were tough, the second ones will be upset and the third ones will be as they are. But the film doesn't end there. [[Laughter]] Because, do you remember the scene of the Marx brothers' cabin? Well, that's what happens to you, but your cabin is more tragic than that of the Marx brothers. Because it is the camera of intolerance, it is the camera of intransigence, it is the camera of dogmatism, in short, it is the camera of anti-politics. And that's what you're doing. You don't care about Spain and you don't care about your Spain, because what you just care about right now - I am especially addressing the People's Party, because Citizens and VOX have it by birth - is trying to overthrow the government in turn. Because if the time comes, when it comes to negotiating, you already know what it is to negotiate, even with the nationalists. They have been reminded here repeatedly. So, what is politics? Politics is nothing more than negotiation and agreements, according to the representativeness that citizens give us every time we run for election. Sometimes I think - I'm sure I'm wrong - that you only pretend to draw a Spain with Catalonia and the Basque Country, but without most Catalans and without most Basques. This is your ideal Spain. What proposal do they have from the Spanish State? Because, in the end, if you deny that the Spanish State is a plurinational State, it is obvious that you have to come to these conclusions that come, but that is not accepting reality. Therefore, I am not going to waste much more time on this motion as a result of questioning. I suppose you will not be disappointed if I tell you that we are going to vote no, no and no, on all the amendments as well. In any case, if you think that's how you're doing your state a favor, I won't correct you. You'll know. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u141	Thank you very much. I've taken some notes of what they've said, but before, as it can't be otherwise, live on March 8th! And before those who today ask what for when a man's day, he answered them: when they whistle, chase you, beat you or 'kill you for being a man, we speak, brother-in-law. So, live on March 8th! [[Applauds]] Mrs De Luna and Mr Espejo, we are delighted that from time to time, more and more habitually, they invite us to this right-wing group therapy to talk about Catalonia and Euskadi. They've got a little vintage, especially you, Mr. Mirror, because I think you still remember when you were in Parliament. We are very fans of these patriotic fights that end up having for the language, because you, here, Mr Espejo, have claimed the fact that how Galicia speaks Galician. We're crazy. How do we force the Galicians to speak in Galician? It's just lentils. Don't you realize, ladies and gentlemen, that every time you imitate VOX, you lose and VOX wins? Do you really not realize that in Catalonia you have three deputies and six who fit almost in a van? Don't you realize that with these kinds of speeches, imitating and trying to be as wild as VOX, the copyright - I told you privately too, and I tell you honestly - from this you've already been stolen, that you've been stolen by VOX? They have other topics to talk about. No one believes it. What language am I speaking? In Spanish. In fact, Mr. Mirror, with great affection, I have less emphasis than you. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Really, how can you continue to argue that the language I have been speaking for a while - and I speak it from time to time with little difficulty - is persecuted or threatened in Catalonia because of dangerous and identity nationalism? If that were true, I would have to be here talking to Google Translate. Don't you realize that it's absurd, that it's useless? Only the VOX voter believes it, his voter no longer believes it, and he votes for others, for example, the PSC in Catalonia. And no one votes for you anymore. [[Rumors]] Mr. Mirror, as far as the dark room is concerned, what kind of affiliation or sexual phobia do you have, with that the table of dialogue, of negotiations, is a dark room? [[Laughter]] I already know it's something that everyone repeats, I understand it's part of the argument. But do you not realize that it is ridiculous to classify a table of dialogue, of negotiation, which is a consensus within Catalan society of 70%? The surveys of El País - please El País - say so, that 70 or 80% of the Catalan population agree that things are not solved either by hostias or in courts, but by dialogue. That there are voters of yours... How do you rate this as a dark room? [[Rumors]] I'm going to tell you something. When you say that we attack Spain or attack the Spanish or Spanish, you lie blatantly, and here we do want to get serious. We are much more patriots than you are, much more. Patriotism of people, because the country is the other, it is not only or above all a piece of cloth; it is not only or above all a hymn, it is to be with people. I'll give you an example that I mentioned last week. We went to a demonstration that was here in front of Congress. They were workers of the metro of Madrid manifesting themselves so that, once and for all, the asbestos will be removed from the metro because they die. Do you know how many of your homelands there were? Zero. Do you know who we were? EH Bildu and us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u142	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u143	United We can also be with the workers, in this case, against asbestos. I wanted to start with a fraternal hug to the Ukrainian people who are suffering from Putin's imperialism and violence, and also to the Russian people who, despite an absolutely savage repression, continue to show their rejection of the war. [[Applauds]] But let's start with the motion. This motion is shameful, it is a compendium of nightly, irresponsible, absolutely inopportune statements, well seasoned with a few little lies... It says more, actually, so it doesn't say that for what it says. When I read it, I wonder if Feijoo knows this. There are a lot of serious problems right now, and the People's Party and the right side basically choose to focus their activity on inventing and creating false conflicts. They talk about disbelief and I wonder: which one? What have you practiced by going to Brussels so that your country does not receive the rescue and recovery funds? They talk about servility and I wonder: which one? The one you practiced for years with the Rajoy government bending over to the austerity recipes? They talk about management, but you are the party of cuts, corruption and repression. They talk about humiliation and even shame, and I, in particular, do not think that Madrid is the third community with fewer hospital beds and the European region with the highest mortality in 2020. Let's go to the three points you propose. On the table of dialogue, with the Government of M. Rajoy polarized and fed; police, judicial and political repression; zero dialogue, much plasma and more punitiveism. The People's Party at the hand of the Supreme Court set Catalonia on fire and set up a factory of independenceists. This Government is clear that politics is dialogue, negotiation and cooperation between Governments. On a hidden agenda, nothing; it is a dialogue table, budgets with outstanding transfers and attention to historical infrastructure demands. Dialogue is not cession or blackmail, it is political, what exactly Catalonia and Spain need, to get out of the immobilism and the cheekbone that make us pass both the Spanish right and the Catalan one and that, to be so different, sometimes their speeches seem very much. The dialogue table is an opportunity to look to the future. Second point, on linguistic immersion. I begin by recalling that the competences in education are mostly of the autonomous communities and are by a transfer agreed in 1996 under the presidency - oh, surprise - no more than José María Aznar. It should also be recalled that on 19 January 2021 the current education law that repealed the Wert law came into force. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Catalonia, confirmed by the Supreme Court, responds to a fortunately repealed legislative framework, which you know perfectly well. They are so lost in the inflamed rhetoric that they are basically willing to take their parliamentary and legal rigour ahead, harm social cohesion and harm equal opportunities for Catalan boys and girls, giving them exactly the same. Besides, a historical curiosity. The model of linguistic immersion that has generated and guaranteed the effective learning of both languages was not the model of Catalan nationalism, it was the model defended by the left and by many Spanish speakers, it was the popular classes that demanded equal opportunities. The language as a cohesive and integrative element, just opposite what the right is promoting today, both Spanish and Catalan. By the way, if there is any language to protect, it is Catalan which, in fifteen years, the percentage of usual use has dropped from 46 to 36. Point three, on competences. It is surprising how you have been able to pass from the Covenant of the Majestic, where Aznar and Pujol changed the chromosomes so that this one ruled. I guess it wasn't an assignment. In the People's Party they are basically the kings of the stealth pacts, nothing is better than sharing skills, auctions, finger concessions, right?, sharing envelopes, percentages and guineas. Faced with its opacity, this Government is clear about this and the Constitution, too: Autonomous communities have their own powers of government. This motion is unworthy, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely unworthy; it lacks meaning, content, rigour and even context. I guess they've got a lot of work shutting down internal fires and they've rescued this pamphlet from a trunk of marriage. This is the only way to understand this centralizing and anti-autonomist desire. Ask your next leader what you think, because in January 2019 you joined a BNG proposal to demand more skills from the central government. Yes, Mr. Feijoo. [[Rumors]] Stop being ridiculous, please, and get to work. The truth is, difficult times are coming...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u144	Mrs. Vidal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u145	I'm on my way, President. We don't deserve to have such an opposition. Happy working woman's day and that, unlike this motion, today, at least, we have a day with class. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Vidal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. The truth is that when he saw that Llanos de Luna, deputy delegate of the Aznar government - deputy delegate of the government that does not govern civil, because it was Aznar who suppressed the civil governments and who transferred the competences in traffic and who transferred the competences in IRPF and who promised to increase the fiscal effort economic transfers to the Government of Catalonia for their pacts with Pujol - he thought he would find a different intervention from what we were accustomed to. But no, more of the same. You bring a proposal that is reduced to denying dialogue, to criticizing the educational system in Galicia and Catalonia - you pay more attention to VOX than to Feijóo - and to violating the autonomous statutes of Catalonia and the Basque Country. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you, no. They speak of equality of all Spaniards, while defending that Ayuso removes taxes from the rich of Madrid, becoming a suction machine that empties Spain. Actually, I was expecting another PP and we found the usual PP. This Saturday, March 12, the 36th anniversary of the NATO referendum was celebrated where the right-wing parties: those of the PP, the former Popular Alliance; those of Junts, the former Convergence, denied their support, as always. You always have to choose between the interest of Spain and your interest choose your party. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP, by far removes and puts leaders - already go for the third: Rajoy, Married and Feijoo; and soon for the fourth, Ayuso through. They are like the Bic pens: although they change their cap, they still write the same -, they continue to block the General Council of the Judiciary, they continue to negotiate with VOX, they continue to boycott European funds. [[Rumors]] Don't you realize that your problem isn't people's? It's politics. When we remember how we beat COVID, when we remember how we got out of the crisis, when we remember how we rebuilt La Palma, when we remember how we transformed our energy system, when we remember how we made the digital transition, when we remember that the Spaniards are still together, when we remember that the war ended and we live in peace, what will they say to their children and grandchildren? That they opposed the state of alarm? That they used the fight against terrorism to make politics? That funds were boycotted in Europe to rebuild Spain? Who were the most active in maintaining hatred among the Spaniards? That they weaken our justice system? That they opposed agreements between employers and trade unions? Who shut up in the face of corruption? You're the forgotten party. They want to forget the Ibarretxe Plan of 2003, they want to forget the November 2014 consultation, they want to forget the disconnection laws of September 2017, they want to forget the illegal referendum of October 2017, they want to forget that they fled to Puigdemont. They want to forget everything because everything happened to the People's Party governments. [[Applauds]] They would also like us to forget the People's Party's corruption convictions, to forget the various versions of Ayuso's brother's contract, which do not last 24 hours. They would even like to forget Mr. Married, but to achieve that they would have to change politics and partners. [[rumors]] [[Mr. Suárez Lamata utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u148	Mr. Suárez, silence. [[Mrs Angulo Romero utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Angulo, you too, silence, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u149	Yeah, yeah, they'd have to change partners and education. [[Applauds]] Because what's left of their partners is a lack of education. VOX partners prevented the Catalonian Parliament from adopting a resolution condemning Putin's invasion of Ukraine. And with that partner and his style, we already know how it ends. Putin and Trump were his heroes. I am Catalan, and the only thing I ask you to do is to treat Catalans like the rest of the Spanish, even in their motions, because this is a discriminatory motion. Because we are Catalans we have no less rights. [[Applauds]] Our status deserves respect because it is constitutional. Spain's future goes by talking more about Europe than about us. Spain will host the next NATO summit and we will assume our fifth European Presidency on 1 June 2023. These are successes of all Spaniards, you only accumulate failures. And I say, if they say the same thing as VOX, if they do the same thing as VOX, if they deal with VOX, if they rule with VOX, their voters will end up in VOX. Don't imitate VOX, break up with VOX. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Luna, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u151	Madam President, we are analysing them.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u152	All right. Thank you very much. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to guarantee the right to a life worthy of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 12 telematics votes, 341; 329 plus 12 telematics votes, 341.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u154	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u155	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law. After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 329 plus 12 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 279 plus 10 telematics votes, 289; against, 50 plus 2 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-08-CD220308.u156	The proposed reform of the Regulation is therefore taken into account. Good night. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and twenty minutes of the night.
