ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. This plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion on the proposed organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to penalize harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u2	We started with the agenda item for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 32/2021 of 28 December of urgent measures for labour reform, the guarantee of employment stability and the transformation of the labour market is a matter for debate. To present the Royal Decree-Law, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u3	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to greet in a special way the Secretary General of the Workers' Commissions, Unai Sordo, and the Secretary General of the UGT, Pepe Álvarez, who accompany us in the rostrum of this Chamber. [[Applauds]] Once again, I would like to express my gratitude, dear Pepe and Unai, for your decisive contribution to this rule that we submit to validation. I compare with you to set out the content and scope of Royal Decree-Law 32/2021 of 28 December of urgent measures for labour reform, the guarantee of employment stability and the transformation of the labour market. Language is the measure of our lives and the text that we bring to this House today for validation is the exact measure of a vital transformation that affects the very heart of our labour relations. The lawyer and thinker Ferrolana Concepción Arenal wrote on one occasion: 'The forces associated for good do not add up, multiply'. This text brings together and associates several force vectors that have multiplied their importance, their footprint and their reach. It is a norm that is the fruit of social dialogue, as I have so many times explained, and I say it with satisfaction, pride and gratitude; a clear result of agreement, consensus and generosity, of that ethics and policy of generosity that we have so much defended, of that ethics of responsibility that I have been taught in my home..., of many months and of many negotiating tables. [[applause]] Some do not know what has been done, but it was nine months, hours and hours and hours of discussions, hours and hours and hours of understanding. Yesterday we knew the most immediate effects of this rule which, as you know, already came into force on 30 December. They are the first steps in the process of transformation that demands our productive fabric. They are already - being on vacation - 238 672 new indefinite contracts signed in January of this year, when the norm is still on vacation. And, believe me, it's a record in the historical series. 15% of the new contracts signed last January were undefined, which represents a significant increase in the ratio of this type of contract. I am speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen, of a reform which, through the protection of workers, restores, adapts to our time and strengthens the social and democratic rule of law in which Spain is established from article 1 of our constitutional text. This is a reform in defence of democracy, and I would also like to affirm its historical significance. I'm not afraid of the historic word, ladies and gentlemen. As Eric Hobsbawm says, history helps, if not to predict the future, to recognize what is new from a historical point of view. And this norm, believe me, is historic. The precepts of this Royal Decree-Law 32/21 transparent everything that is innovative in it. In every line, ladies and gentlemen, the absolute paradigm shift that this rule represents, the negative-unpublished roundabout to this day - to a culture of precariousness that has endured for decades the development of the Spanish labour market and the living conditions of so many working people in our country. Why resign ourselves to the impoverishing monologue of the precariousness to which we have attended so long without answers and without voice? Where is it written that our country must be subjected to abnormal conditions that drive us away from Europe and that have mortgaged so many decades of our democracy? The careful reading of this royal decree-law, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]] The careful reading of this royal decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, has allowed you to check what is and is not in its text. There is no resignation or complacency. I can assure you, on none of your pages is resignation or complacency. There is, however, firmness, collective commitment, a long look and an express claim, that which speaks to us of the centrality of work in social and political life, in line precisely with the declaration of Philadelphia of the year 44 and the impulse to demerchantilize work, together with the work carried out by the ILO in defense of decent work, without servitude, with full rights and dignity, giving the citizen the safe place that he rightly demands; sheltering his life expectations; accompanying from labour law and social protection systems any vital weather, any setback; guaranteeing protection to workers in the relationship of wage exchange for work with their employers - this is what we talk about, the lives of workers, of labour law - and ensuring, moreover, the perception of income when work fails for one or another reason. Unemployment is a chronic evil of our productive model that has been used as an alibi to undertake successive reforms of the Workers' Statute. These reforms, more than fifty, have walked in a single direction, in a very concrete direction: the remerchantization of work and its growing weakness. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the continuous and permanent loss of rights for working people. Since the successive structural reforms of 1984, 1994 and the 2010-2012 cycle, we have witnessed the decline of the principle of employment stability, which until then has been considered - remember - as one of the vertebral elements justifying the right to work. This progressive deterioration was accompanied by an increase in recruitment time, as well as increasing precarious employment. The wage devaluation and the increasingly weak contractual position of the unions led us, in the midst of a growing conflict, to the ominous cycle begun in 2012 by the hand of the labour reform of the People's Party. At this point you know what I am talking about: an imposed, unilateral reform that shielded the power of companies, that despised and humiliated the social dialogue and that caused and provoked two huge general strikes in this country, the strike of 29 March and that of 14 November 2012; a reform that was placed on the margins established for the democratic quality of the laws - it was challenged several times by the Supreme Court - and that instituted until today that harmful lesser evil that you so much remember: better a job of misery than nothing; better a wage of misery than unemployment; do not complain that, even if it is a dirty job, you have employment. These sentences, ladies and gentlemen, hurt, still hurt today in this House. Let me tell you, as we say in Galicia, that in ruins little is to be chosen, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have forced us to choose for too many years between misery and nothingness. You have tied the hands of the working people of this country with the wage devaluation, with the productive outsourcing and with situations of overexploitation such as that which until today have suffered the floor waitresses, chronifying sine die that temporality disguised in their beginnings of short-term necessity, as you said. [[applause]] The Labour Reform of the People's Party, which in this text today we submit to its validation, leaves behind as a bad dream what enthrones as garbage work. But not only that, he sent a very clear message to our mothers and fathers, who, as you know, with so much effort had managed to give education and opportunities for the future to an entire generation: the labor rights that you have defended for decades and for which you have fought as an archaeological good no longer exist. It was the rescue who could. That was your message of alarm, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; that was your great abandonment. Such irresponsibility resulted in very high social and economic costs. Even today we are debtors of that lost generation of unemployed young people in Spain or of young people forced to look for horizons of prosperity abroad. Remember, a youth with no future. We were aware of the levels of inequality and labour poverty never reached in our country, an unprecedented wage income gap and the shameful historical record of 771,000 households with no labour income in Spain. I tell you about people who, despite having several jobs - this is real life, people who have to accumulate small jobs - did not get a decent salary at the end of the month. We also say in Galicia: both working and walking barefoot. I am referring to that 16% of working people who in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, even having a job, were poor, without being able to reach the end of the month either. In that year, in 2015 - I remind you, President of the Government - the minimum wage was 648 euros per month. Your ladies will remember perfectly the figures that accompanied that cycle of collective pain: more than a million jobs destroyed in the first two years of implementation of the 2012 labour reform. It has taken us eleven years, with its days and nights, to recover the employment levels before the financial crisis, eleven years; a reform that sustained an unbearable increase in unemployment in our country, exactly 6,278,200 unemployed in our country, unemployed people, a never-known unemployment rate of 27%, shot at young people by 56%. The 2012 text meant, in short, the regression and deterioration not only of the democratic life of our country - which is also, and is very important - but, worst of all, of the confidence of citizens in their institutions and in their connection with the welfare state. [[Applauds]] Precarious lives and jobs, ladies and gentlemen, which were bequeathed to us by that disastrous 2012 reform in the face of what must be full, decent and rights-based lives and jobs, precisely what we want to establish today's rule for the validation of this House. They know the text and know that it is a modern norm, which brings us closer to Europe in terms of temporality, as we have already progressed and know, in component 23 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, whose contents are faced in full in this reform. It is a rule according to the moment we are living in, which accompanies the moment of a social and solidarity Europe, which mobilizes important resources to respond to the global pandemic. Today, more than ever, social rights, the protection and creation of employment and healthy and sustainable labour relations are a concern and a collective goal enshrined in this text. Then I will go into the contents of this Royal Decree-Law 32/2021 in a synthetic way throughout its fifty-one pages. I want to tell you that I am doing so with great illusion, but also with concern; with illusion because we are - I know very well - faced with a decisive norm that has a great collective effort behind it, a decade of struggles to restore to labour legislation the dignity that the reform of the People's Party has taken away from it. Today, a week before Royal Decree 32/2021 of 28 December is ten years old, this Congress, for the second time, is once again debating whether it confirms the labour reform of the People's Party forever. This is what we play today, if that aggressive reform of the People's Party gets its endorsement once again, or if we leave behind definitively the model of precariousness, low wages, pirate subcontracting and so much anti-union prejudice that the right has. [[Applauds]] This and not another is the crossroads, this and nothing else is what we discuss here. We discuss the content of a rule that in each of its precepts recovers rights for the workers of our country. But he told them that he also went on to report the contents with concern. We have been in the Spanish Government for many days talking to the political partners to seek their support for the reform, for many weeks, just to get the support obtained in the social dialogue to join the support of this House, to political support, amplifying the legitimacy of a consensus rule, and when there is consensus, they are rules of a country. I have to admit, I didn't make it. However, with many of your ladies and gentlemen I have not been able to talk about the content of the rule, I have not been able to transfer to you what this royal decree-law entails, because in the face of ultraactivity, the priority of conventions or the fight against precariousness, I have only heard personal projects, smoke, makeup, an insignificant norm, a norm, said the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which did not change anything. It saddens me - I confess - that a rule which I believe is the most important of this legislature is backed up by superficial debates which do not help to overcome - believe me - the discredit of politics; it saddens me that the debate is in the field of party rivalries; it saddens me. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] As I have been taught in my home, I see politics as a way to improve the lives of people, of working people. I have learned and have been taught that if a rule contains progress, if it contains progress, we must vote in favour. What is being voted on here today is whether or not to say yes to the failed model of the People's Party; yes or no to decent work. [[A Member: What a barbarity!- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u5	Those contents, which I will now detail, are the ones that must be taken care of. This royal decree-law recovers the indefinite ultraactivity of collective agreements. Only this precept would justify it for those who know what it really is and what the affirmative vote on this rule means; those who do not know what we are talking about are not aware of what is going on with the People's Party and the deployment of ultraactivity. [[applause]] Only this rule justifies voting in favour. Look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, How many countries in the world today contain indefinite ultraactivity? Come on, come on, come on, come An article that speaks directly to the workers of Endesa - I'm sure your ladies and gentlemen from all over Spain know it - because precisely because of the ultraactivity, because of the sudden death that the People's Party instituted, as you know, the retirees of Endesa have lost their social benefits. Today, Edesa's workers would not have lost the social benefits that were incorporated into their collective agreements. [[Applauds]] The indefinite ultraactivity speaks to the workers of Cadiz that the ladies and gentlemen of this House have so many times invoked. They have made a general strike and won the workers. Today the workers of Cadiz do not have to go out to manifest for indefinite ultraactivity; they will do so for other things, but for this reason, no. Only this precept guarantees or should guarantee the vote in favour, because, in the end, this precept says loud and clear in the norm: so far we have arrived. This rule, this precept, tells hundreds and hundreds of negotiators forced to lower their negotiating aspirations that this is what ultraactivity was about, under the threat that their agreement would fall and leave the sector, as we have seen with the housekeepers, charging, for example, the interprofessional minimum wage or directly without labour guarantees. Now, with this rule, we tell them that they are now going to negotiate on an equal and secure basis. [[Applauds]] This is the content, ladies and gentlemen. Are you going to say no to this? Are you going to tell the workers of our country that if it were for you, ladies and gentlemen of many parties, you would return to the model of the People's Party? Who feels comfortable or comfortable in this plenary with collective agreements affected by sudden death? Who's comfortable? Please explain to Cadiz, to the Endesa workers, to the floor waitresses, that - in case you were - tomorrow the working people will rise without this right that is already in force in our country today. [[Applauds]] The Royal Decree-Law repeals the priority of corporate agreements. How much we've discussed about this! This means, ladies and gentlemen, ending the most pernicious instrument articulated by the People's Party to lower the wages of working people; this is what we are talking about, it was the great strategy of the People's Party: to promote the greatest wage devaluation in our history, and - believe me - they have achieved it. I know him well, I have faced these cases as a labor lawyer, and I can say, with this text in hand, that the company agreements will no longer serve to give cover to pirate companies that put in check the system of labor relations also dragging themselves to unfair competition, because this also implies unfair competition between companies. [[rumors]] With this rule this is over today. I am talking to you about contents without masks, as they appear in the text. It is these contents that justify that the right, so enmity with sectoral collective bargaining, cannot be reflected in this rule and today is showing no. Because the great master beams of the 2012 reform, ultraactivity and company agreements, have simply been laid down, have been pulled down. Ten years of struggle have been worth it; trade union action has been worth it; the mobilization of the workers of this country has been worth it. Of course you could! And to those who told us about the European Union's impediments, we showed them that the commitments are being met, and this is not smoke, it is solid and it is real, it is tangible. [[Applauds]] The royal decree-law also regulates subcontracting, the many times - dear Magdalena - mentioned article 42. Working on a subcontract will no longer be synonymous with precariousness, ladies and gentlemen. It has been concluded that cleaning, private security, call centre or auxiliary workers are sentenced to a temporary contract for working in a company that provides services to another. All the auxiliary companies at this time cannot have temporary contracts, they have to have their workers and their workers stable, and this is a substantial change. [[Applauds]] From now on, these auxiliary companies have to have indefinite contracts, beyond or regardless of the nature of their company. But let me, ladies and gentlemen, land in the great contribution of this royal decree-law to decent employment, and it is the fight against precariousness. I have already said that Spain is the great anomaly of the European Union because of its unusual figures of temporality. This abusive temporality has generated insecurity, discouragement and lack of motivation, factors that have an impact, as you know, on our mental health and to which we will develop more strategies and seek more solutions, as we have committed ourselves on behalf of the Government to do with its lordships of More Country and of Commitment. This rule, ladies and gentlemen, has completely transformed the paradigm of our labour relations. We say goodbye to legislative indifference, grey areas, ambiguities. Undefined recruitment is already the norm in our country. And temporary recruitment must be fully justified, as the law says, and that is our commitment to stability. The fixed contract of work and service, which many people I have spoken to these days did not know that it accompanies us from Francoism and also projects its bad shadow on our labor relations, disappears. I speak to you about that old article 15.1 (a) - the laborers know it well, that which we have studied -. We stopped giving protection to practices that drove hundreds of thousands of workers out of stability in many sectors of activity, ranging from construction to telemarketing. Notice, in 2019 there were 8.2 million fixed-term contracts and service contracts that are no longer to be made. This means that they will become stable contracts. These are the contents that we are debating today: 8 million contracts, ladies and gentlemen; they are people, they are not smoke. [[Applauds]] And believe me, those 8 million people I think deserve a decent job in our country. The temporality in our country, which with the reform of the PP - remember it, contract for works and certain service - could reach the 4 years of duration, will be drastically reduced to a maximum of 6 months with a justified cause, or 90 days in the case of a contract that attends to an occasional relationship; 90 non-accumulative days. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, when has been done in the history of our country's labour reforms - more than fifty - such a limitation on the possibility of temporary employment. When? I will tell you - fifty-two reforms -: never. Francisco Largo Caballero once said that not only were social laws necessary but good laws whose compliance was guaranteed. I have quoted it many times in this House. And this rule, indeed, is made for its compliance and has developed guarantees that it will be certified. Look, this rule says without presumptions, nor periprases, loud and clear: 'People hired in breach of the provisions of this article will acquire fixed status'. One cannot temporarily hire a worker - this is very well known by the workers at their workplace - for more than 18 months in a period of 24 - remember what we are talking about - and with a definite novelty: one cannot defraud this rule by hiring different workers, because what links the temporary nature or it is not the job. We've banned this. A promise, by the way, always unfulfilled in a system of employment that has accompanied us throughout democracy. We analyze short-term contracts because it is not possible to continue with that unacceptable model of contracts for days; irregular contracts that will entail a penalty of 27 euros for each fall in the formal contract. Remember, they were laid off on Friday to discharge them on Monday; they will be penalized with 27 euros per worker. This measure will prevent them from doing just this, from rehiring them on Monday. The Labour and Social Security Inspectorate will control the proper use of temporary recruitment, and will - believe me, it will - accompany this new time of stability. Companies will no longer pay as before a single sanction. Many companies, as you know, found it profitable to defraud, as the fine was unique; many companies had thousands of workers hired temporarily irregularly, but since the penalty was unique, it was logically more economical. Now the offenders already know: the rule applies individually, and each of those thousands of workers will respond to a penalty, and that penalty is called 10,000 euros per worker. This practice that some companies were doing to incorporate temporary irregularity into their own budget because it was cheap, believe me, it's over. This shift towards stability is the best way to protect against dismissal those who have always been outside of it. They did not need to fire, simply with temporality they had everything arranged. I am talking about that third of the Spanish working population that must not be dismissed because, simply - as you know and well know - their contracts are extinguished without any possibility of dismissal. We talk about 30% of employees in our country; it's not smoke, it's people. [[Applauds]] Because they were or because they are trapped in temporality and its aftermath, seven million working people experience this drama that the current labor reform is striving to correct. Real protection against dismissal is what the reform is aimed at and does so by combating temporality as never has been done in our country, with a tool that has already been successful in our country, giving real alternatives so that dismissal does not become the path of adjustment in economic crises. We've proven it. How many times did I hear, beyond the technical inaccuracy, that it was going to move from an ERTE to an ERE. The technical inaccuracy is flagrant, but beyond that, what you said was not true. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing more was approved of the PP's labour reform and in the midst of a huge financial crisis, the figure was, in ERTE - do you know how many people? - exactly 36,000. Do you know how many workers - ladies and gentlemen, the social dialogue and the Government of Spain - we have had protected in ERTE? 3,600,000 workers. [[Applauds]] Of these, 97% today, despite their speeches, have joined their jobs, recovering and maintaining each and every one of their rights. It is a protection mechanism that has saved more than 550,000 companies. I have heard many people in this House say that the ERTE were worthless, I have seen how they voted against, on one side of the bench and on the other. I honestly believe you've made a mistake. If anything has saved our country in this crisis is this enormous mechanism of social cushioning, it is the ERTE, despite the votes against which they have received in this House. [[Applauds]] That model of classic dismissal of the Spanish right, the model of the PP, which can now be reimposed if we do not approve this text is what we have shown that it can be reversed. And as I told you, the ERTEs now become a real alternative to layoffs, with social protection, adding training for employment as a nuclear element and promoting the requalification and relocation of workers from sectors in crisis. We also create, as you know, the RED Mechanism to protect employment, doing structurally what we have all learned from pandemic ERTEs, giving them a permanent character that responds both to a cyclical crisis and to transformations in a sector of activity that requires a process of professional transition. I know it's difficult, but it changes logic, ladies and gentlemen. What's going to happen from now on is that there's no need to fire. They are real countermeasures in the face of dismissal that really prevent us from remaining that country that adds hundreds of thousands of unemployed every time things go wrong. Remember the forecasts that international agencies made about the unemployment rate on Spain. Remember the Banco de España and so many international organizations that came to say that we were going to reach a rate of 25, 26% unemployment; since they have had to correct, since today the unemployment rate is 13,3% - we have to retreat fourteen years ago for a similar figure -, the lowest unemployment rate of the average of our country, and this has been thanks to the social protection mechanism. [[Applauds]] This reform, ladies and gentlemen, is a real cultural change and I know very well that cultural change is difficult. It is an opportunity for companies and working people in this country to definitely leave behind a model of deeply unsatisfactory labour relations based on this insecurity that is attuned to the lives of so many people and, if I may, uniquely of so many women and young people in our country. And yes, I am speaking to you about the young people, many of them and them in our country have known nothing but precariousness; they and they are also the protagonists of this text. We move away from those contracts in which training, as you know well, was an excuse for precariousness and we bet for the first time on full training for access to employment. We do this with the German model, with a dual training model based on collaboration between institutions and companies, with theoretical content and developed in the workplace, integrating young people into the world of work, always with rights comparable to those of any working person and always applying the collective agreement, and this, believe me, is a substantial change. [[Applauds]] This royal decree-law represents the great opportunity so that also in the field of science and research in our universities we can turn our backs on temporality and we can - most importantly - retain the talent of youth. [[Applauds]] We can't have precarious investigators, it's a shame as a country. We cannot continue to defend precarious recruitment in our research system, this model is not decent work. Do you know what the best formula is to prevent brain drain? It is very simple, to offer good working conditions and life possibilities in our country to a young scientific and research community, is to offer research and scientific careers to young people in our country. The change proposed in this rule is spread in several directions. They have heard me talk about the importance of fixed discontinuities and I want to say - because I have heard this these days - that it is a stable contractual modality, it is not a temporary contract. I make this clear because there are people these days who were telling us that this is a temporary contract; no, it's a stable contract. [[Rumors]] This rule, in its article 16, promotes a transformation and genuine improvement of a model that, believe me, has shown its effectiveness within the framework of the Spanish productive economy. We give the permanent workers discontinuous of all the rights with which they count the rest of the contracts; that is, exactly - yesterday, we talked about it - to combine the seasonality of some productive sectors in Spain not with precariousness, but with stability in the contracts. The fixed breaks will enjoy - it was a great claim of the workers - the accumulated old age and their social protection, which is going to be exactly the same as that of any other worker, and thus in this rule the access to the subsidy for older than 52 years is recognized. Since it could not otherwise be, this text also deals, dear Mary Jesus, with public employment, putting a stop to layoffs in public administrations, ensuring that all the permanent activities of the Administration will have to be covered by stable contracts. People working in public enterprises must be stable, not only in the Government of Spain, but also in each and every autonomy. It seems a light thing, we know it's not. [[Applauds]] We know you don't. See if we know that no, this rule also accompanies from the Ministry of Finance and Public Service a specific replacement rate in order to be able to meet this need for stable recruitment. This is what makes hundreds of thousands of workers of public enterprises, of the instrumental entities of the Administration, become stable and also abandon contracts for work and determined service. So far, ladies and gentlemen, the contents of this reform. I want to thank you beyond what you vote for. I would like to thank the parliamentary representatives of the Socialist Party, my dear colleagues from the United Nations We can, Citizens, the PEcCAT, More Country, the Compromis, New Canarias, Teruel Existe, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, the Union of the Navarro People and also the Canary Coalition. [[Applauds]] I want to thank the PNV, because it has discussed content, it has been serious in this debate and it has been clear, and I thank the PNV. I am also grateful, on behalf of the Government of Spain, to the social partners in our country. I will continue to defend myself always, I am a great advocate of social dialogue and I know very well what that means. [[Applauds]] Thanks to Pepe Álvarez, Unai Sordo, Antonio Garamendi and Gerardo Cuerva. Thank you very much. I have the feeling that in a political debate that lasts weeks, we have not dealt rigorously and seriously with what this labour reform entails. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the first labour reform that moves clearly, from the first to the last of its 51 pages, in the direction of recovering and guaranteeing labour rights. It is the first in 40 years and this Government, yes, is very proud to do so. It is a labour reform, ladies and gentlemen, which brings the express endorsement of trade unions and employers - in any of their autonomous communities, say no to social dialogue -, employers and trade unions, after months of negotiation. I say it again, you do not know what it has been; we do know it: a laborious, hard-working pact, an artisanal pact, very complex, believe me, but in which each one of us and of us has given the best of himself. I believe that this pact, ladies and gentlemen, is a great lesson for politics, because that is precisely politics, which we demand. Politics is dialogue, it's permanent negotiation, it's making agreements, it's making synthesis. This is politics. Politics is not the no for the no, it is not partyism, it is not noise, it is not insults. Politics is this, taking care of oneself, reaching agreements, although one sometimes fails to achieve one hundred percent of its objectives. [[Applauds]] This profound reform opens - and here I am, on behalf of the Government of Spain - a new and exciting stage for collective bargaining, for dialogue, for the joint construction of a new statute for work for the 21st century. A new, exciting statute, the compilation of extensive labour legislation, which will enshrine the deeply restorative and democratic spirit and orientation of this text. To turn our backs on this reform, to reject it, to drop it - as some and some, if for them - would do - is to return us to the exit box in the disastrous game of precariousness. I will never be in the backsliding of labour rights, I said at first. I have been taught in my home that any advancement in workers deserves an affirmative vote. No one who has lived in that place called precariousness wants to return to him, to fear of not being able to pay the light, to fear of not being able to pay the rent, to fear of not being able to care for his children, and no one, with his vote, should force us to do so. [[applause]] I have given him many laps, I have thought a lot these days and I do not find, however much I look for it, a solid argument to vote against this reform, to get bogged down by a real decree-law that is already letting its positive effects feel on our labour market and on the lives of so many working people. It's over now. "Nothing helps as much as reality," says a verse from my admired poet Francisca Aguirre. And that's the way it is. This norm emanates from the reality of our country, from its direct knowledge. That is its great value, its intangible component and what allows us to proclaim the weight and transcendence of the great goal of this reform, which is nothing other than improving people's lives. The life of Eva María Cancelo, a home help worker who, with this reform, will see her salary increase by 2529 euros a year when she becomes dependent on the sectoral agreement of the province of A Coruña instead of applying the multi-service company agreement that is now applied to her. [[Applauds]] To the Galician Members of Parliament on the benches I am addressing, because this is a smaller amount; if it were in Catalonia, we are talking about more than 5500 euros a year. This rule goes for them. Or of the life of Juan Manuel Formoso, who works in the cleaning sector and who, after the implementation of the agreement in the sector, starts to gain, notice, 26% more than today. Of the life of Eva María, of Juan Manuel's life, of the lives of tens of thousands of women and men in our country, who have long demanded that work be an area of democracy and equality; that work never again be a reduction of insecurity, of fears, of labour exploitation and, above all, because there is nothing worse, of hopelessness. Social equality is a guarantee of trust. We were taught by the British historian Tony Judt, who also told us that lack of trust is incompatible with the proper functioning of a society. The text we bring for your approval in this House is written to the dictate of trust and responsibility; a responsibility that, among all and among all, we must today, with an affirmative vote, make our own, responsibility and pride to protect the working people of our country. This rule goes for them. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government present, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, the truth is that this morning we are attending one of the most delirious parliamentary votes that are remembered at least in this parliamentary term. I have noticed you especially nervous and, curiously, very unsure of yourself - when you are usually a woman with enough certainty - which seems normal to me, and seems perfectly normal to me because you know you have betrayed your own. You came here as the leader of the pickets, and today for all of them you are at the head of the troika. [[Laughter]] But you also know that, at the hands of your own Government, today you want me to appear here as a defeated vice president. I fully understand that you feel insecure and nervous about the stage you have created and that you yourself have promoted. [[Applauds]] That is why he has spent most of his time not defending this reform, but attacking the People's Party. It has even transformed what should be a validation of a real decree, on the 32nd of last year, into confirmation of the reform of the People's Party, further reducing it to a simplicity of itself or not. And you asked us all: Will you confirm the reform of the People's Party? [[Several Members: Yes]] For we say it loud and clear: Of course! And of course, because we are absolutely proud of it. [[Applauds]] What labour legislation do you intend to repeal? No less than the most advanced and modern labour law framework that Spain has had for the benefit of workers and employers. It is not in vain a labor reform in the conceptual antipodes of the counter-reform of law that you bring here today, because in 2012 it was based on the premise that, except in very exceptional cases, workers and entrepreneurs are in the same direction together, share the same purposes and aspire to common goals for the benefit of the company and the well-being and professional development of all its employees. This philosophy, so far away from the sectarian notion and nightly from the labour market as a zero sum game in which the evil entrepreneur always wins, has been placed in this legislation, which is new based on flexicurity: flexibility for businesses and safety for the worker. With this reform the People's Party Government managed to reverse the destructive tsunami of employment initiated under the Socialist government of Rodríguez Zapatero in 2008. That's what's brought here today. With it we started one of the most fruitful job creation cycles in our country. I'm going to give you some data, Mrs. Díaz, as you usually like to say: thanks to this labour reform of the People's Party government, half a million jobs were created a year between 2014 and 2018, five consecutive years creating 1,400 jobs a day. Yeah, 1400 people with names and surnames. [[Applauds]] 132,000 SMEs were created; 265,000 self-employed created new businesses; 2.8 million Spaniards found a job, including 1.3 million women and 230,000 young people; the number of households with all their active unemployed members was reduced by 615,400, and 52 months of indefinite recruitment increased. In short, according to Eurostat data of April 2018, when the People's Party left the government, Spain was a leader. But leader in what? A reduction in unemployment and job creation throughout the euro area. Spain was a leader in creating young jobs, a leader in creating women's jobs, a leader in creating self-employment and a leader in full-time job creation..., and we are not going to give up being leaders in this. [[applause]] This labour framework, if anything, is overcoming the first major stress test and is that of the impact of the economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic. Thanks to what? To the ERTE, indeed, minister, that which you discovered before the eyes of all the Spaniards at a press conference in the midst of the pandemic. Remember? The girls and boys in this country will remember and learn what an ERTE is. We want you to learn what employment is. [[Applauds]] You have spoken of 3.6 million people who have been in ERTE during this pandemic. Indeed, with that figure that develops and modernises with the 2012 labour reform, which you constantly demonize and which you want to repeal today. And the most amazing thing is that, in addition, you are part of a government that has been working on job creation and social security membership data for months, which are just the result of that reform that demonizes the year 2012. If it works, why repeal it? Why not reform it with ambition and under the same principles that have made the labour market work in our country? This is the key to the question being asked by the People's Party and to which we respond with our sense of vote. For the first time in our history, the flexibility and resilience of our labour relations framework have allowed the evolution of the labour market to disengage from the staggering march of economic growth. This is the reform that did not require 2% growth in order to create jobs, but with 1% it could be created. See if it's important and important what the People's Party did in 2012. But, Your Honor, you bring this reform with a triggered inflation and with the foreseeable rise in interest rates, that is, you do not do it at the very best time for this unfortunate counter-reform that you want to validate. In addition, there is something very clear, the reform has worked but also what we are showing these three years of your government - harmful for Spain - is that with economic policies that are not the right ones the situation can be shaken, and today that happens. What is Spain's leader? It is no longer about job creation, but we are now the leaders of Europe's unemployment rate. We are leaders in youth unemployment, leaders in female unemployment, and that is not what we want for our country. There is a second question: is this the reform our economic sectors need? No, Minister. Will its effects be positive or negative? Negative, Minister. Let's go to some specific sectors. Does this royal decree respond to the needs of the countryside? No, no, But I will tell you more, the Ministry of Labour has an absolute lack of knowledge about the Spanish agricultural sector, because what it intends to validate in terms of temporality does not apply to the reality of our field. And this is not just what the People's Party is telling you, this is what the farmers from all over Spain are telling you. [[Applauds]] The field has as its intrinsic condition the temporality, which does not mean precariousness, and that ninety-day contract that you have established is going to be short for a lot of the campaigns that are necessary in our country, but it is also going to entail the increase of labor costs and the increase of bureaucracy; in short, the point that the Spanish field needs to end up out of play. Do you know where this is going to take you? Mechanization and robotics. Is that what you're trying to do? That is not what I want for farmers in La Rioja or for farmers anywhere in Spain. That's why our vote is no. And does the reform respond to the peculiarities of the automotive sector? Well, Madam Vice President, neither. We are talking about the ninth world power in the manufacture of cars, the second in Europe, of a country that has seventeen factories that are located throughout our geography, and that are at risk because this labour reform boosts manufacturing flexibility. There will be more rigidity in a sector that has demonstrated a great capacity for social consultation, a social consultation that has maintained high levels of competitiveness, with internal flexibility and a relative moderation of labour costs. We, with our vote, are not going to take away this flexibility that the automotive sector needs. [[Applauds]] Mrs Díaz, you have spoken about the researchers, and there are 25,000 researchers in this country who do not know what will happen to them on 1 April. Because, how are you going to hire from April 1st if you were to carry out your work with contract until the end of the work and you have decided and said that this royal decree is not changed by a coma? Do you want to tell me what's going to happen that day with them? With our vote we say no. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party does not have a patrimonialist view of labour reform. If this reform were to improve the labour market, it would count on our support. The great weakness he has is that he only looks to the past and not to the future. The great weakness is just what is not in this reform, and I will tell you that it is especially in two dimensions: the first, to bet on greater simplification and to intensify incentives for greater efficiency and equity in the labour market, i.e. to believe in the freedom of enterprise and its right to manage its future. Instead, why do you choose? For administrative and bureaucratic control. You have given an example, but it is not just the best because the disappearance of the contract of work and its replacement by an alternative mechanism of termination of the contract is only for one sector, that of construction, an unjustified sectoral exception that we cannot share. But there is a second part and it is that duality could be eliminated: instead of choosing to restrict temporary recruitment, one can choose to favour indefinite recruitment, and that is where the People's Party is, in favour of indefinite recruitment, not in restricting in what is necessary temporary recruitment. [[Applauds]] Why don't you do other things? Why not reward companies that create stable jobs with less contributions? Your Honor, this reform is neither ambitious nor a necessary leap towards solving the structural problems of our labour market. What is needed are measures in the field of productivity and competitiveness, Mrs Díaz. Does that ring a bell? No, because it's not in this royal decree that you bring us here. If he had been, he could have had the support of the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree runs counter to the new realities of the labour market, and we, the People's Party, cannot compromise or remain indifferent to a change that is objectively bad. Some breathe satisfied because it does not bring us back to the times of Atapuerca. That is insufficient for us. The People's Party neither compromises nor contemporaries nor resigns when the employment of the Spaniards is at stake. Today, too, we are going to go backwards or forwards, and to go backwards and backs and backs and backs, and less so when what we are talking about are the rights of the workers and, fundamentally, Mrs Díaz, of the unemployed in this country. [[applause]] The People's Party, as I was saying, is not content to take some steps backwards so long as they don't push him. Of that, whoever decides, will have to account for it. We do not settle for giving the approval to what we consider a lesser evil for fear of reprisals. We're always going to look forward. Spain deserves a new step forward in the 2012 reform, not a step backwards. Even if this royal decree is validated, it has no doubt that it will have a short life because soon the People's Party from the Government, as in 2012, with an absolute majority, we will be able to take over the reins and return the future it needs to this country. And we will also do so with steps that are taking forward, with reforms that are structural as is the implementation of the Austrian backpack, that is, the creation of that hut of the worker that we register today in the House as a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u8	Mrs. Gamarra, you'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u9	I'm finishing up, President. A proposal for a law that, by the way, has the support of the Banco de España in its recommendations and even has the support of Minister Calviño. I hope that, as you had that endorsement, you will not censor it and allow it to move forward. In short, Your Honor, you asked us a question at the beginning of your presentation: do you confirm, yes or no, the reform of the People's Party? The People's Party confirms that. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Madam Vice President? [[Denials]] It called for the use of the shift in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mrs Peña Camarero. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Yes to comply with workers and entrepreneurs; yes to rebuild lost consensus; yes to agreements that make our country grow. Of course I do! [[Applauds]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the validation of Royal Decree 32/2021, of urgent measures for labour reform, the guarantee of job stability and the transformation of the labour market, and it will do so for three reasons. We are faced with a reform of the labour market agreed at the Social Dialogue Bureau and therefore with full social legitimacy. For the first time in history, the Government and the social partners unanimously agree to a comprehensive labour reform that recovers workers' rights. That is why I would like to begin by welcoming your home and congratulating the social partners for their willingness and for the consensus reached. [[Applauds]] There is another way to govern, with dialogue, with agreements that represent the majority of Spaniards above ideologies, without noise, without theaters, without extremism, without Casado and without Abascal, which, as we are talking about work and rights here today, are not, because they are working and little law, a consensus that has been facilitated by the six previous agreements, by the legitimacy gained during the pandemic, with measures that show that different policies can be made with a positive impact on the labour market. [[applause]] So, Mrs. Gamarra, fair lessons. The People's Party had the opportunity to carry out a labour reform based on the agreement. It was January 2012. The unions and employers signed the agreement for employment in collective bargaining. Just fifteen days later, on 10 February, the PP Government approved its labour reform. The PP chose to do so alone, without agreement and without negotiation, an imposed labour reform that undermines the foundations of labour management, which boosted collective bargaining, which resulted in the loss of rights for workers and an unprecedented wage devaluation. Secondly, we will support this reform because it addresses the main problems affecting our labour market: temporality, precariousness and inequality, issues detected, diagnosed, analysed, which are finally faced with corrective policies, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when you were able, this is what you did. In its first year of government, more than one million workers lost their jobs. The unemployment rate exceeded 56%, temporary contracts increased by 32% and the labour force fell free: 350,000 people left the labour market on account of discouragement, expulsion or emigration. The data are indisputable because their labor reform is perverse, is old-fashioned, persecuted for the data, for the bad data, and for the justice, for the sentences. Don't be frightened, I won't talk about the dozens of corruption plots of the PP of Castile and León - it could and would never end - but the Supreme's rulings to end the precariousness in subcontracts or the ruling of the European High Court of Justice that condemned our country for lack of control and partiality, more reasons to drug them. [[applause]] A third reason. The labour standards carried out by the Government of Pedro Sánchez during the COVID crisis show that there is another way out of the crisis and not destroying jobs, with results. Spain now has 20 million jobs and an unemployment rate of 13%. There are six hundred thousand more families with all their members occupied. Here are the aid to the self-employed, to the enterprises, the important investment in the ERTE, the data of the EPA and the data of the GDP and there is the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage, which show that we are facing a solid recovery, with an extraordinary reactivation of our productive fabric and giving confidence and certainty to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Don't be fooled, there's no magic wand worth it. This is done by engaging with our country, believing in the Spanish; it is done through social agreements, with a labour policy that has saved more than three and a half million workers and thousands of businesses. By the way, it is an agreement that complies with those from within, with the citizens of this country, but also with those from outside, because we approve the European trend of modernising labour relations, we approve European consensus in the response to this crisis, we approve ourselves as a country that takes care of its workers, takes care of its businesses, increases wages and competes in quality and not in vital devaluation. For all this, to be against this reform is to be on the land of no one, nor to help entrepreneurs to create jobs, nor to help to give decent and rights-based jobs, is to remain in the limbo of the most absolute intra-censorship, because this is not a real decree anymore, because there have already been previous balances in this negotiation, and to preserve its content is to respect the social partners. I would tell some groups here today how bad it is that they do not want to respect the agreements of the social dialogue that is being debated here today, but worse it is that we do not respect, for example, that interprofessional agreement signed by the Basque social partners in 2017 that already resolves the prevalence of the economic agreement, with what you today excuse here. He was talking about content, a content where the new type of contracts normalizes indefinite contracting. It will give stability and future expectations to millions of people and will harshly punish timelessness without cause. In the event of a crisis, the easy exit from dismissal is already replaced by internal flexibility and by ERTE, subcontracted workers will charge the decent wages agreed by the sector and not the minimums imposed by multi-service companies. The prevalence of the sector agreement will affect more than one and a half million subcontracted workers, most of whom are women, who will be rescued from the precarious account. [[Applauds]] And the reform regains the ultraactivity of the conventions, key to the negotiating strength. This is the time to put all this into effect, either in favour of or against raising the wages of thousands of workers, to whom, thanks to the proposals of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, a more advantageous sectoral agreement will be applied to them; or in favour of or against betting on ERTEs and training rather than on fulminant redundancies in difficult times; or in favour of or against giving job and wage stability to thousands of young people, to thousands of families who, of course, have the right to start a life project, away from infra-temporary recruitment, betting on indefinite recruitment. And it will be difficult for those who vote against to explain to workers who have to pay less, to companies who do not have to be entitled to internal flexibility or to the unemployed who will be left without opportunities for job integration. This is our responsibility, especially after the data we have known this week. With only one month of this decree in force, this new labour regulations, for the first time in Spain 15% of new contracts are already carried out indefinitely. This is to promote stability in employment and this is what some, from that surprising left and the decadent right of always, do not want to happen. [[applause]] Today there are groups here that will renounce to regain the ultraactivity in the conventions. And I say, what happened to them? On 20 October last left and right voted in favour of the identical proposal put forward by the Socialist Party in the Labour Committee. Moreover, all of you went to take pictures of the Bay of Cadiz supporting the workers who demanded to recover the ultraactivity. They've been fooled, haven't they? Tell the shipyard workers that today they are going to vote against what they promised. [[Applauds]] Today there are groups here who will decide not to end irregular subcontracting, and I wonder: what has changed? Because last March 11 left and right again voted yes to the exact proposal submitted by the PSOE to the Labour Committee, because you, ladies and gentlemen, your groups, voted in favour, met with those in the construction sector and today betray you by voting against what you promised. [[Applauds]] I would say that we are eager to listen to you, especially to the surprising left, explain why you are going to decide with your vote that a woman working in the hospitality sector in Barcelona loses 443 euros a month to which she is entitled from now on with this new regulation because of the prevalence of the sector agreement vis-à-vis the company. [[Applauds]] And he said that we are impatient, but the truth is that not even, because this is not acceptable; as he would say, you do not play with things to eat. It makes no sense that due to his electoral calculations and internal problems a transport hub in Castile and León loses the 585 euros per month that correspond to this rule after agreeing with entrepreneurs and trade unions, has no name and has no forgiveness. [[Applauds]] Today in this House some parties are certainly not going to use sounding words; they are going to talk about things that are missing, about territorial issues, but surprisingly, with their vote and attitude they are going to maintain the spirit of that Member of the People's Party, Mrs Fabra, who said that the workers of this country were screwed. That is what many parliamentary groups are going to do here today. [[Applauds]] I am just finishing, because it is true that in a moment, on a day like today, which has to be of joy, very good for this country, some still very much but very angry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is true that everything is against them. You are voting against raising the interprofessional minimum wage, as this government has raised it by 30 points. It irritates you that minimum wage policies have been shown to be the most powerful mechanism of income distribution, it bothers you. It is not that the rise in the minimum wage does not affect job creation in negative terms, but rather that the Spanish case indicates that it can provide an impetus for job creation. I repeat, today we have the largest number of occupied people in history, 20 million occupied, almost 140,000 unemployed less than before the pandemic. [[Applauds]] You are very upset, very upset because months ago you prophesied and frightened the population in the middle of a pandemic saying that ERTE would become ERE. They deceived the self-employed by saying that they did not accept the aid that the Government was making available to them and, of course, fortunately for workers and businesses, their lies last less than a candy at the school door. So speaking of lies, the European Commission's letter of congratulations to the Spanish Government on the management of the European funds and for this employment agreement does not make Mr Casado ridiculous - not difficult, because he was already, was it? - what he does is equip the citizen who is interested in the truth with an objective and indisputable element to know it. Your scorn, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is monumental. Even if the People's Party doesn't want to, 140 billion euros will come to our country, get on with it. [[Applauds]] Finished. With all due respect to the assessments and decisions that legitimately correspond to each political formation, the labor agreement reached between workers and employers deserves the support of the Congress of Deputies. We come from a very hard year and, after the efforts of the Spaniards, of the social dialogue, all deserve a new stage better, with better wages, with better jobs and with better possibilities to develop, of course, a full life. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not ask whether we fully agree, but only whether we are going the same way. Thank you so much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government present, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your turn in favour of this rule. I do not repeat what I have said, but I am very happy to reply to the spokesman for the People's Party, Mrs Gamarra. I am the daughter of workers and I know what this rule means, and today I feel especially proud, yes, proud. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] I know you don't know what I'm talking about, but I know very well what I'm talking about, I'm very happy, very happy. But, look, Mrs Gamarra, today I will agree with you for the first time on one thing, you have said a truth despite the confusion these days. He said that this rule is placed in the conceptual antipodes of Royal Decree 3/2012, called and known as labor reform of the People's Party. And it is certainly true, it is placed in the conceptual antipodes of the failed model of labour relations of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Yes, model failed, Your Honor, because paper endures everything and interventions much more. But I am going to quote here today in this House to Fatima Báñez, review your speech. She appeared before this House - and she is in the Journal of Sessions of this Chamber - when we had the worst unemployment rate in the history of Spain, 27%, Mrs Gamarra, 6,278,200 unemployed workers; a youth rate of 56%, Mrs Gamarra, today in Spain we have a very high youth unemployment rate, but look at it, in a year and a half we have reduced the unemployment rate by 10 points, Mrs Gamarra. And when that happened in Spain, with the failure of its labor policy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u15	... Mrs Fátima Báñez appeared in this House and said loud and clear: This reform is not intended to create jobs, it is intended to devalue wages. And, indeed, this was served by the People's Party's labour relations strategy. Indeed, you say a truth for the first time and it is that this rule is voted against because it is placed in the conceptual antipodes of our country's labour relations. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I will explain to you, before I give you some data, which I will give you, the catastrophe of the PP's model of labour relations. First, the social catastrophe; I have spoken in the intervention of democracy and it is that when a rule has two general strikes - I participated in them - it is that what he did was very serious, very serious; two general strikes, crushing and scorning the social dialogue, disregarding the respect of those who today in our country know very well what they are talking about: entrepreneurs and workers. [[rumors]] And that, Mrs. Gamarra, is not smoke. You just came to the government in fifty-one days, without talking to anyone, ordering, subcontracting, with that royal decree-law imposed a rule that effectively served - by the way, as the Bank of Spain also said - to promote the greatest wage devaluation of employment in our country. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, it's not true what they say. Not only have they not created jobs, but they have destroyed jobs, more than a million jobs and an unemployment rate - I remind you again - of 27 %. Your Honor, today is 13,3. In Rajoy's years of office - he searches if he wants, even, of other rulers of the People's Party - he searches for a year - to see if he finds it, to see if he finds it - without crisis, in which the unemployment rate is 13.3%. I'm telling you, he's not gonna find it, they haven't made it. Because your measurements weren't meant for this. [[Rumors]] I believe that a leader like you when you come up to a rostrum has to say that, although the structural unemployment rate in Spain is very bad, what we have achieved today is good news. It is curious that the President of the Community of Madrid is arrogant and says that this unemployment rate is very good, but, of course, she says that it is because she governs very well. But, curiously, you are not able to recognize that it is positive for this country when the forecasts - as I say again - for our country were like those that were always expected in Europe, 26% of unemployment in the face of a brutal crisis like that experienced by Spain. They're missing the truth. They have not created employment, destroyed it and put young people at an unemployment rate of 56%. [[Applauds]] I'll talk to you about something else. The temporality with its reform - then I'm going to talk to you about the big goals and its conceptual framework in four blocks - was designed to devalue and set up a model based on precarious relationships, and they have succeeded. It is very successful, what Mr De Guindos said in Europe - indeed, we are going to make a very aggressive rule - is true, they did. And look, with its norm the temporality in Spain grew nothing more and nothing less than 5 points. It was placed above 27 %, exactly 27.4 %; quite a success, a whole life strategy for young people and working people in our country. And yes, they are very concerned about agriculture. I'm going to recommend a book, a very beautiful book, by Manolo Rivas, a million cows. Read it, it's a gem, and maybe we stop frivolizing with agriculture, even though we're on an election campaign in Castile and León. And speaking of agriculture, Mrs Gamarra, do you know what the temporality rate of agriculture was when you ruled? I'm going to tell you: 70%. Shame all over Europe. Yesterday I gave the temporary rate of agriculture in our country, which is still a shame also throughout Europe, 57 %, but when you were ruling, with your labour relations strategy, the temporary rate in agriculture was 70 %. Today we are still 25 points away from Europe. I fully understand that this is the work model that you are defending, but the Spanish Government is going in the opposite direction. And we also say to a sector that is seasonal that has to go to a key figure, that are the fixed discontinuous, that serve precisely for this, to accommodate the seasonal character with stability in employment. Mrs. Gamarra, you've been talking about homes. Do you know how many households were without any employment income in Spain when you were ruling? Record number, we're going to give you a prize: 751,000. Do you know, Mrs Gamarra, how many employment contracts have been registered with the Public Employment Service since you ruled? Shame. When we explain it in international organizations do not give credit: 186 million employment contracts. The figure is truly scandalous, it's a country's worst cover letter. But I'm going to give you another piece of information. You know, of these 186 million employment contracts in Spain, how many are shorter in duration than seven days? Well, look, another cold one: 44 and a half million. Shame on you, Mrs. Gamarra. The People's Party's labour relations strategy was designed for this. But I'm still giving data. You've been talking about the ERTEs. I, Your Honor, will be clear. As much as you repeat the story a thousand times it won't be as you want it to be. The modern definition of ERTEs is supported by a law, in Law 35/2010. Ladies and gentlemen, stop playing because trade union representatives and workers from all over Spain are here, who know that throughout democracy the ERTE have existed in different formulations; stop playing. [[Protests]] It is true that the definition The modernization of the ERTE is done with Law 35/2010, and yes, it was president of the government Rodriguez Zapatero, not Mariano Rajoy. [[Protests.-Applause.]] He was President Rodriguez Zapatero and not Mariano Rajoy. But I will tell you more, Mrs Gamarra, if the ERTE that were in Law 35/2010 are the same ones that have borne fruit for different royal decree-laws in our country, do you want to tell me what we have been doing in this House by voting different rules and what social actors have been doing in the social dialogue? Very simple, these ERTs that we have today and those that are structurally consolidated in articles 47 and 47a of the Workers' Statute do not look like the ERTs of any labor legislation of our country so far, nor that of Law 35/2018. So stop playing. By the way, Mrs Gamarra, if it were for you, with your vote we would never have saved 3,600,000 workers or 550,000 businesses, because you have not accompanied the Government of Spain or the social partners to the main extent that you have served to save the lives of working people and businesses. If it were for you, how many and many are going to do today, this clear rule would fall. And I'll give you the data again. The ERTE sounded so far away that the data I have given is real: 36,000 people working in ERTE when the People's Party ruled the financial crisis. And today, Mrs Gamarra, we have had 3,600,000 workers in ERTE and more than 550,000 companies saved. This means multiplying by 100 the deployment you have made. But I will continue, Your Honor. You've been talking about employment. Mrs Gamarra, look in the years of People's Party government and the implementation of your labor reform a year in which you have 20 million occupied in your country; look for it, you will not find it. I'm going to give you the affiliation data you've had. Do you know what membership was when you ruled? Sixteen million working people. [[Rumors]] I don't know, cheer up, because this is positive, Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u17	And this is not thoughtable, it's data: 16 million versus 20 million. I guess you're here to improve people's lives and you have to be glad that in Spain we have, compared to your 16 million occupied and occupied workers, 20 million employed workers. But I also assume, Mrs Gamarra, that you must be pleased that we have been able to create jobs, to create nothing more and nothing less than 840 700 jobs. I guess he's happy, 'cause he's positive for his country. I guess he's also happy that half of those 480,000 jobs are occupied by women, and I guess he's also happy that we have a record Social Security membership figure of women workers: 9.3 million. I want to think, Mrs Gamarra, that, even if you are on the right and I am a woman on the left, you are also pleased with this. And look, Mrs Gamarra, before entering those four blocks of what your labour reform entailed, which, in fact, this rule combats, I want to say something. You do not speak, even though Mr Casado speaks every day about it - I suppose he will speak later - that the great recipe for the People's Party is to maintain the labour reform of the People's Party, a reform that has been questioned by the European Court of Justice and by the Supreme Court itself in many of its measures. But what you are saying to the Spanish workers is that the guarantee for our country is to recover the Austrian backpack. What you are telling us is that you simply want us to pay with public money the layoffs of workers in our country. I thought you guys were gonna stay there, but no, you didn't stay there, you gave him one more screwdriver. Suspolitics are of such lightness that, of course, when I read them I was absolutely surprised, because the great idea you have had is that the Government of Spain dedicates 10 billion euros - which is what it is difficult to implant the Austrian backpack in Spain - of the funds for economic recovery to pay the compensation for dismissal of the workers of our country. Believe me, Mrs. Gamarra, when I read it, I didn't give credit. Do you know the position of the European Union on this frivolity of devoting EUR 10 billion to firing workers in our country? Do you really know what you're talking about? Are you seriously telling our country that they want the recovery funds to allocate 10 billion euros to lay off workers? I think sometimes you don't know what you're talking about and, above all, you don't know what you're talking about for a simple reason, Mrs. Gamarra: you were ruling, it was Minister Fatima Báñez and, look, Mrs. Gamarra, there was a committee of experts to address the implementation of the Austrian backpack in our country. The Austrian backpack, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, randomly only applies in one country, Austria. For something it will be. And not only that, it applies in a country that is called Austria in a very small percentage of the salaried population, and this, Mrs Gamarra, is data, is reality. When no country deploys the Austrian backpack, it may not be a good tool for maintaining employment. [[Applauds]] But I say to you more: Do you know what the conclusions of that committee of experts are? Well, look, that committee represented all the political options, employers and trade unions, and they all concluded the same thing: the Austrian backpack cannot be deployed in our country. But you don't, you don't make mistakes, you screw around and tell the Spaniards nothing. For example, so much that they are concerned about the car, the EUR 4300 million of the PERTE of the electric vehicle, which would not reach us, we are going to dedicate them, instead of the transformation of the Spanish production model, which needs EUR 10 billion, to dismiss people. This is a brilliant idea, and this I do, Mrs. Gamarra, is irony. Look, Mrs. Gamarra, you've been talking about flexicurity. You do not like what this rule does and what we have done in the deployment of the management of the biggest health crisis, you want something that you have taught the Spaniards very well; even people who are outside the world of labor law and work already know what they were talking about. You are not of internal flexibility, you are not of ERTE, as has been shown, you are of a very clear euphemism that we know in Spain called external flexibility. Do you know what that is called, Mrs. Gamarra? Massive layoffs, which is what we had in Spain when you ruled: 6,278,200 unemployed in our country. [[Applauds]] You can talk about internal flexibility, if you want, as an adjustment in employment, which is much more delicate, or, as normal people on the street know: mass layoffs. And this is precisely what you, it is true, have effectively practiced. Now yes, I summarize the conceptual model of Royal Decree-Law 3/2012. First of all, I was thinking of deploying our country's largest wage devaluation strategy. I will give you a figure, Mrs Gamarra: the reduction in wages in Spain since they applied your law was 10%. Now you're talking about purchasing power. When you were ruling and practicing this wage devaluation, in our country, Mrs Gamarra, the minimum wage was 641 euros, not 965 euros, as it is now, thanks to the Government of Spain; it was 641 euros and, despite that, you decided to cut wages by 10% on average to all workers in our country. That is what has allowed us to move from a harmful reduction in the share of wage income in national income, in fact, with a loss of more than five points, Mrs Gamarra, to the fact that, thanks to another labour and economic policy strategy, we have now recovered three points. This is what the Labour Reform of the People's Party was basically for, to massively lower wages. [[Applauds]] And yes, Mrs. Gamarra, there is a second block that has to do with something very important. I will quote, as I said, an article that Nicolás Sartorius has written these days. He said: Only by the implementation of the indefinite ultraactivity, only by the recovery of the indefinite ultraactivity, must we vote in favour of this norm. Of course, we must vote in favour of this rule, because what you have done with Royal Decree 3/2012 is the biggest, unprecedented attack on the rights of workers in our country, the biggest attack on class trade unionism in our country and the greatest contempt that has been given to the majority of the working population in our country. If for something has served what is called sudden death in the conventions it has been for something very easy. If the collective agreement falls a year, do you know what many companies were doing, Mrs. Gamarra? I can give you, if you like, names and surnames. So sit back and wait for time to pass, because when that agreement fell, do you know what happened to the workers? That, at best, the inter-professional minimum wage was applied. And I don't tell you the degradation of working conditions, I don't tell you what the housekeepers have been through or I don't tell you the need to sit down and negotiate anything, because the force was imposed directly by entrepreneurs in our country. As I told you, with this rule, this is over in our country. This rule regains the bargaining power of workers. [[Applauds]] And, Mrs Gamarra, yes, I am very pleased, the Government of Spain is very satisfied, and I share with Mr Sartorius, whom I have known well since I was a child, who only by this precept should I vote in favour of the rule. But, look, the attack they've made on unionism has been brutal. I say that again in this House today. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u19	This government is a defender of trade unionism, because talking about unionism in Spain is talking about democracy, and when there is a vocation of the Spanish constituent to place, nothing more and nothing less, social agents in article 7 of the constitutional text, it is that they are telling us that they are key to the transformation of the country. I am not going to quote sentences, which will pass into the history of this House, of leaders of the People's Party about trade unions because they are shameful, Mrs Gamarra, they are shameful. It's an unprecedented attack. Despite you and despite the opposition you have practiced, today unionism is stronger in our country. Notice, Mrs Gamarra, the third strategy of Royal Decree 3/2012 was to provoke, nothing more and nothing less, the pirate subcontracting, low cost, or the absolute degradation of labor relations in our country. You can tell me: No, look, we haven't touched Article 42. And he's right. Royal Decree 3/2012 did not touch Article 42, but do you know why, Mrs. Gamarra? It was a very skilful combination - I recognize the jurists who made the rule that they knew very well who they were defending - and it was successful for theirs, not for ours. But do you know why there was no need to combine or touch article 42, which is almost the mother of Spanish labour law? You know why? Simply because the combination of 42 and the preference of the company agreement made its retouching unnecessary. And you know what you've produced, Mrs. Gamarra? For this is well known to the workers in our country. Simply that workers performing the same functions in companies - you see at an airport different private security companies - doing the same activities, the same tasks, with the same professional classification, had radically different working conditions. Not to mention, Mrs Gamarra, what was going on with the combination of the company agreement. Knowing the nature in many sectors - he talked about cleaning, private security, telemarketing, whatever you want - you knew very well what was going to happen automatically with the implementation of the multiservice company agreement. Basically, the strategy of combining non-indefinite ultraactivity with the preference of the company agreement has served to achieve what they wanted, which was to destroy labor relations in Spain. Indeed, the conceptual model is radically different. Why, Mrs. Gamarra? For what I've said before. First, and very important, auxiliary companies today with outsourced activities cannot have temporary contracts, they have to have stable labor relations. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u20	Excuse me, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u21	But the best thing is that Article 42 now says that the convention in the field of the carried out activity is going to apply. To be understood, if a working person is a floor waiter, that person will be subject to the agreement of his or her executed activity. Do you know what this is? Catering. This is what this rule says, but this rule says something else. Look, Mrs. Gamarra, I'm from Ferrol, a city of great workers' struggles. I'm very proud. But, look, in 1972 - there are Members and Galician Members here, some greater than certain who lived it much more intensely than we - murdered two workers, Amador and Daniel. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u23	And you know why they were murdered? For defending a company agreement. [[Rumors]] I don't know what laughter or grace makes them. For defending a company agreement. The Government of Spain has nothing against the company agreements, on the contrary. We know that there are productive sectors in which the company agreements - so much you talk about, for example, car - are indeed exemplary. We therefore have nothing against the company agreement. And what do we do in Article 42? To have a rule that if there is a company agreement that improves the working conditions of the sector, it will also apply to the workers of our country. Indeed, this work model has nothing to do with the one designed by the People's Party in large law firms in our country. [[Applauds]] And, look, with this rule, the workers were done taking and putting, that this is what you were doing with it. There are no more removal and laying workers. In addition, we have told you that when the contract is temporary, it is the post. There can be no trapping with the recruitment chain of different workers. If that position has a cause of temporality, it has the position, Mrs. Gamarra. The things that you have designed in that rule to bring about the greatest precariousness of labor relations have been over. I'm finishing up. The fourth strategy resulted, in addition to devaluing and attacking workers, in collective bargaining and class trade unionism in our country, in defending pirate subcontracting. Look, Mrs Gamarra, I am not going to reveal any of the debates we attended at the social dialogue table, but believe me that the business side understood that low-cost subcontracting was genuine unfair competition, and this is also going to be avoided by this rule. Of course, companies that comply with the law have to be rewarded against others that were inspired and enhanced by this rule that you claim today. Finally, its norm, which it presumes, was a real strategy to destroy the labour market in Spain, so that precariousness was the norm. I'm just going to give them three sentences. There are phrases in the history of Spain and Spanish politics that have already been configured as authentic policies: All Spain is urbanizable; the best industrial policy is that which does not exist... Finally, there are phrases that are going to pass into history, but there is a phrase that you were constantly repeating - we know very well - about the model that you designed with the labour standard. You said to us, "That's what's left. I remember Mrs Fatima Báñez perfectly saying: You have to choose between unemployment or precarious work. What a leader and a model of society. This today, ladies and gentlemen, is over. [[Applauds]] The Socialist spokesman literally quoted the phrase of a prominent leader of the People's Party who in this House insulted all the stops and stops in our country. I will not repeat the rudeness - Mrs Peña has already said - but it was true. That is the model of social protection, the real one, which the People's Party defends: insulting the unemployed and the stops of our country. Imagine, Mrs Gamarra, if what we had done today was, in this crisis management strategy, to apply the rule of the People's Party. As you know, the Spanish unemployed would see their unemployment benefit reduced to exactly 50% of their regulatory base. You were telling us: they have these good figures thanks to the PP's labour policy. No, Mrs. Gamarra, we have these good figures, you know, thanks to what? A strategy deliberately adversarial to your norm. So much so that throughout the crisis, with the support of the majority of this House and the social partners, what we have done has been to circumvent the legislation of the People's Party. Look what we have done: we have come to prohibit dismissal in Article 2 of Royal Decree 9/2020, Mrs Gamarra. If we had applied your rules, today we would have those unemployment rates of 26% and 27% that you have come to have. And look, the saddest thing for a country is to listen to rulers, as several and several of its leaders did, tell the young people in Spain: There is no alternative. What we are doing with the Labour Reform of the People's Party is called external mobility. Trembling euphemism. Hundreds of thousands and thousands of young people were expelled from our country. [[Applauds]] External mobility. They came to say - and with this I end - that the young people were leaving our country because they had adventurous spirit. Mrs Gamarra, this rule not only ends this, it does something more important, which is to defend the decent work and dignity of young people in our country. Therefore - as I have started - this rule is going in the opposite direction to the conceptual model of labor relations that you have designed. On this occasion, you, Mrs Gamarra - and you have said so expressly - will, of course, vote against the validation of the rule, because, indeed, you want, if this rule does not come out today, what is in force is the rule of the People's Party; the Government of Spain is just working to the contrary. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and United States parliamentary groups Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government present, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u25	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, you are going to allow me, before going to the bottom of the matter, to give you a precision, because you constantly reiterate that you are the daughter of a worker. I don't know where he thinks we're from. Sons of the sun are not. [[Applauds]] Most of our parents, if not all of them, are obviously workers, at least mine. [[Applauds]] I greatly appreciate that literary recommendation by Manuel Rivas, a fantastic writer we have in this country, whom I have read and whose value I really recognize, but I, to know the depth of agriculture, do not have to go so far, because I come from the countryside and know what it is. For my own family, I know perfectly well how the sector works. In addition, I would ask you not to be demonized or so pointed out, because the persecution that is taking place from the point of view of labour inspection of agricultural holdings is a crime; frankly, it is a crime. [[Applauds]] That reference you made to the change in the sanctioning regime that establishes this reform, frankly, becomes a persecution for many farmers, who are constantly denouncing. But let's go a little further. I believe that many of the questions that you have raised to us here are based on prejudices, prejudices towards policies that another party is developing and that it has historically developed, when the Spanish have decided to do so, the People's Party. They are policies that have worked, Madam Vice-President, and it is not a bad thing to recognize when things work, although that is something you do not have as a habit. We have seen here how we talk about the year 2013 and the situation of unemployment in 2013. The truth is that it takes courage on the part of the Socialist Party and on your part to refer to that quote. But more courage must be given, Madam Vice-President, to refer to the years 2010 and 2012 in relation to the ERTE, when you were one of the people who was in charge of the demonstrations and the strikes in the years 2010 and 2012. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President - I was telling you at first but it is being ratified - you are ratifying and what you are exposing is how you have moved from picket to troika. Because, are you the same Yolanda Díaz that in 2010 in Galicia called for mobilizations and demonstrations? Are you the same Yolanda Díaz who in 2012 called the demonstrations and mobilizations, the one who also said, before being vapulated in the ballot box by Feijóo, that wanted to be the Dolores Ibarruri? I think that's not going to leave it to you, it gives me the feeling, especially seeing how the blue bank is today. [[Applauds]] Look, in 2010 and 2012 the two reforms were carried out by the ERTE, both of which you have supported during all these months and which you have counted on for ratification and validation with the People's Party. By the way, in many matters we have asked you in advance for the extension of those ERTE that you left until the last day, generating anxiety with it to thousands and thousands of Spanish families, who did not know until the last second - from that great sensitivity that you say you have and practice - what would be theirs on Monday morning; I did not know if I would remain inert or if you would be unemployed. [[applause]] [[The applause continues]] That is the great sensitivity that you have shown. And this party is the one that has been calling for the expansion of the ERTE constantly and we will continue to ask for it, of course, because it is an instrument that not only works but that we are honestly proud of, even if you are the ones who apply it. Of course we're happy when it's going well in our country! That is why we do not understand that you want to repeal a reform that you have been implementing for three years and that has worked. Because you say you're proud of the data. If you are proud of the data, we cannot understand why you repeal it, unless it is for sectarianism and ideological bias that you have to implement absolutely everything. They're talking about 2013. [[Rumors.-Shows a graph in blue and red on Registered Unemployment Evolution]] Look, this is the development of unemployment in our country. I have had the deference to put in red what corresponds to the left and in blue what corresponds to the People's Party. You can see clearly how, thanks to the inheritance, to that inheritance that all Spaniards know that Mr Rodríguez Zapatero left to Spain, to those social cutbacks measures, which counted on the vote of Mr Sánchez, who has been absent from this debate, all that made that figure, that of more than 6 million Spaniards, come to be reached. [[applause]] But those policies are the ones that made that reform - which you want to repeal today - from that moment on would generate half a million jobs for five consecutive years. Do you think you're going to get the same with this reform you're bringing in? I'll tell him no, and that's the key. [[applause]] You speak of how this country was when we left it, and you lie; you have shed lies one after another. He's been talking about membership. Look, according to the EPA, in the second quarter of 2018, when the People's Party left the government for a motion of censure, there were more than 19 million Spaniards affiliated with Social Security. [[Applauds]] And what was the purpose of this reform? This was achieved: 20 million members of Social Security in 2020. Got it? Yeah. With what reform? With the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And better than I could go if the economic policies that were being implemented were not those of tax increases, those of legal insecurity, those of bureaucracy, which is what is generating this bad government for Spain. Madam Vice-President, in addition, in your obsession with lying every day, you have given us a phrase from Mr Solchaga: 'The best industrial policy is the one that does not exist'. Come on, come on, He says it's ours. [[Applauds]] I just ask you if you take it as a new socialist or sanchist. [[The applause continues]] Then he'll explain it to us, if he wants to. But there are some more issues that I think it is important to address in this debate. Here we not only bring the validation of a royal decree, we bring the validation and non-processing as a bill, something that is being settled in this House like: here the Executive does what he wants. And this week we have two frankly embarrassing exercises. The first one occurred on Monday; today, 47 million Spaniards go down the street with this mask, without any report that says we have to carry it, because you are worth it and you are doing it. They kidnap - legislatively speaking - a group of pensioners, blackmail parliamentary groups that pass through the ring and here 47 million Spaniards go with a mask on the outside until Mr Sánchez wants us to smile again. [[Applauds]] And when he wants the little Spaniards to smile again, we'll smile. And in the meantime, we will have to validate it to those who have given the vote for validation because, if not, there is a group of pensioners who are left without a measure. When with a parliamentary majority, which is what the opposition represents, we could be bringing in the rest of the groups the approval so that those pensioners do not lose that measure that you have cheating on and that you thus prevent it from being legislated. But it is that today we return to the same in another way, and in the background what is behind it is to turn this House into a Chamber of red tape validation. We don't do anything else, and here we are to legislate. This royal decree law is not only negative for us, but also we do not want to be robbed of our ability to legislate and improve it in what, within our convictions and for what the Spaniards have given us their votes, because we have an electoral program to represent, we want to develop in the parliamentary process. Therefore, this again becomes what could be called a political robbery: either you take it or you leave it. And we rebelled. That's not where we're going! And less with the reform of the Workers' Statute! [[Applauds]] It seems a lie that you, who presume to be such a trade unionist, feel well that the roll of a government is the one who modifies by means of a royal decree law nothing less and nothing less than the Workers' Statute. Well, it's true that you've been changing a lot and you've also made something very important clear to us throughout your second exhibition and it's the defense of unionism and its strengthening, strengthening of which we have no doubt as to how your subsidies have risen from the general state budget. [[Applauds]] Let's go if unionism gets stronger with you! [[The applause continues]] And you question what European funds can go for. Why not for the Austrian backpack, why not? Ah, for unionism yes, to strengthen unionism yes, but for an instrument that can allow duality to be something with legal certainty, isn't it? Curious, curious, curious! But I'll tell you something else, aren't there unions when there's a company agreement? Because in the business and trade union reality that I know the company agreements have unions negotiating those company agreements. And that's what we don't give up. You know why? Because we do not give up something that you have missed in all your exhibitions and which is fundamental: productivity and competitiveness. And any labour reform must address productivity and competitiveness. [[Applauds]] And when this is obvious because the only thing that obsesses is the defense of trade unionism and the strengthening of trade unionism is when a personal and partisan interest is being put before the general interest of the Spaniards. And that's what's here and what we rebel against, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u26	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u27	I'm finishing up. I'm terribly sorry for what you're going through because, even if you say you're very happy, you know perfectly well that the machinery of sanchismo has set in motion against you. It can be said that he has entered the cabinet room of the President of the Government. I recommend that you ask people who have been with you on the blue bench: Mr Ábalos, Mrs Calvo, and you will tell how that machine starts to work because that watch has also been started on you. Thank you very much. [[Rumours.- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u29	Well, well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what a mess, isn't it? With your intervention I have three options: to enter a data battle, to become a true verifier or to talk about what really matters to the Spaniards. I'm almost gonna do the three things. Data battle. I'll let you know it's going to turn into a boomeran. The People's Party - of course - made us temporary leaders: twenty-two million contracts a year are temporary. He made us leaders in wage devaluation. The INE says so. The salary structure, the net salary when you arrived at the government was 26,000 euros; three years later, eight hundred euros less. He also made us leaders in destroying vital projects, in throwing into the abyss young people who, after the effort of their families to form themselves, either go away or get frustrated with the labor market that you have left us here entangled. [[applause]] I can also do a checker. He told his partner that lying without memory loses the thread of history. This is the 17th time that we have to point out here that Law 35/2010 was signed by a socialist president and provoked the ERTE, which has benefited more than three and a half million workers in this pandemic in a modernised way. [[applause]] They're talking about processing by royal decree-law and they're confusing the royal decree-law with the royal decree. Married that day, he should not have gone to the class in which the regulations were explained. I'm gonna end what's really worrying. Worry a little bit about preparing the topics. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u31	I still remember when the other day the vice president of her party went on television and did not remember that the People's Party made a labor reform unilaterally and without the consensus of anyone. Get ready a little bit because you have a chill... Some, let the text be read; others, let them not say that not before reading it. Focus and stop harming businesses and workers. The People's Party often speaks here of Atapuerca - as a bourgeois, I encourage you to visit it - and it always does so with contempt. I'm going to set you an example to finish. Atapuerca is an extraordinary place, a place where we can observe human evolution. 450,000 years ago there was a little girl - her name was Benjamina - who was born with a head injury. By itself, Benjamina would not have survived, but far from being considered a ballast... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u33	...and abandoned, as did the societies of that moment, decided to take care of her. That fact caused us to see for the first time how societies and groups take care of those who need it most. From Atapuerca to today it is you who have not evolved, the recalcitrant right of this country. [[Applauds]] This government certainly captures the milestone - of course it does - of that group society in Atapuerca that took care of its own, a government led by Pedro Sánchez that takes care of the Spaniards in the workplace, in the economic, in the social, and today comes to sign a labor reform that benefits entrepreneurs after a long journey. The rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, the repeal of article 52. (d) so that those who have been discharged by COVID cannot be dismissed, the Rider Law, the Telework Law, that is the long way to support the workers and companies that today the Socialist Party defends also here. [[Applauds]] It seems a lie they don't remember where we came from! We're still in the pandemic! We have lived two very hard years - very hard years - in which we have seen how important it is not only the public, but the care; two years in which we have seen responsors in subcontracted supermarkets, nurses serving twenty-four hours with temporary contracts, garbage pickers. Only for them is it worth saying a great yes to this labor reform that improves working conditions, after the care and service that - they do - as good patriots have done to this country. [[applause]] Of course I do. For them, it is only for them that it is worth saying that yes, because that is what this rule is about, to take care of workers, to take care of entrepreneurs, to take care of the productive fabric, to take care of ourselves as a country and to show ourselves before the world that we are a serious, reliable and consensus-building country. It's over now. With all the pride, with all the respect for the agents who have negotiated to get here today, with all the joy and with all the passion that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party always imparts when it comes to raising the labor rights of the workers of this country, yes to this labor reform. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, you also have a problem with democracy. It would be convenient for us to listen. If you want more time, you can have it, but it would be convenient for us to listen with respect even if we think differently. Mrs Peña, thank you for defending this rule, because you know very well what we are talking about, the lives of the workers of our country. Thank you also for the collective work that we can and the Socialist Party are doing in the Employment Committee. Mrs. Gamarra, man, you tell me this is a robbery... Of course, you should reflect before you speak so strongly in this rostrum. I remind you again that what you did without social dialogue was Royal Decree-Law 3/2012, that there was no discussion, that imposed it and that caused two huge general strikes in our country. That you're telling us about mugging is at least a joke of bad taste. I will remind you, Mrs Gamarra, because I suppose you know him or should know him, that the European Court of Justice and the rules of the Union point out that social dialogue is a source of law. I guess you know that. Or are you telling us here to the social partners, the Government of Spain, our country, that social dialogue is useless? Is this a robbery, Mrs. Gamarra? Are you serious, that you have done nothing in fifty-one days more than to undermine our country's labour rights? I know that in politics it's worth everything, but this is looking more and more like what a great Galician illustrated very well, it was called spurt. And this, Mrs. Gamarra, is not a robbery. Mrs Gamarra, that you tell me, the Government of Spain and the Spanish society to raise taxes is a joke of bad taste, because - I have already told Mr García Aegean on several occasions - you in your mandate, with Mariano Rajoy at the head, practiced up to thirty tax increases, you came to record the sun, Mrs Gamarra, and when you have to accompany the Government of Spain to suspend taxes, to reduce them, to lower them in this huge crisis, do you know that you have voted? Well, not exactly. In other words, if it were for you today, VAT on electricity would not have been reduced. The tax model of the People's Party has led - it is no joke - to 30 tax increases, Mrs Gamarra, and this is not that we know it here, it is that the working majority of this country, who has suffered it in their own flesh, knows it. Do not give us lessons from tax increases to this government or to the previous governments, because you were the champions of tax increases, and also the most unfair, that is, indirect taxes, which, as you know, have a regressive character. Yes, Mrs Gamarra, I have quoted Solchaga and I have no inconvenience; I have quoted Solchaga. [[Protests]] What are you worried about?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u37	I have also quoted José María Aznar: All Spain is urbanizable. And watch how we end up. [[Applauds]] And speaking of inequality and talking about pay, I'm going to quote Mr. Rajoy. Do you remember, Mrs Gamarra, what the President of the Government told the Spanish workers? Do you remember the benches that accompany us from the left of what he told the women of our country when we defend breaking the gender gap in retributive activity? Do you know what Mr. Rajoy told you? Let's not get involved in that, which, in total, what women get paid for the most. [[Applauds]] Faced with that phrase, the Spanish Government, and the result of the social dialogue, Mrs Gamarra, has made two great rules which Minister Valerio has initiated with a real decree, two great rules which, by the way, are the vanguard in the European Union, which are currently being discussed in a directive: nothing more and nothing less than equal pay for men and women and equality plans for businesses. And look at you, who are so against the interprofessional minimum wage, who said that employment was going to fall and collapse, that there was going to be a hecatomb in Spain because of rising the interprofessional minimum wage, the rise of 31% of the minimum wage has served to narrow the gender gap between men and women by 2.5%, Mrs Gamarra. You're not going to think much of it, we're not. Maybe you think, like Mariano Rajoy, that you don't have to get involved in this. The Spanish Government is getting into this and in depth so that the women of our country continue to win rights despite their policies. Mrs Gamarra, as much as it tortures EPA data and the use of verbs, excuse me, it is not going to get the creation of three million jobs. That is indeed a falsehood, Mrs Gamarra; that is indeed a falsehood, and it invited all journalists, journalists and this House to review Mrs Fatima Báñez's speech, explaining well why the Labour Reform of the People's Party served, when she, in fact, acknowledged that in Spain we had 6,278,200 unemployed people. [[Rumors.-Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] Torture the data as much as you want...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u38	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u39	..., they're not true. Not only have they not created employment, but what they have provided are massive redundancies. Mrs Gamarra, that was talking about Article 51, that was talking about ERE, which you do not know very well: what is an ERTE and what is an ERE, when they affirmed those things that the ERTE were going to become ERE - I say again - with a huge technical ignorance. So keep torturing the data and, I'm telling you, they're not gonna find us. But it would also be good if you would have used your intervention to tell us whether in one year of the mandate of the People's Party you had an unemployment figure of 13.3% and the youth unemployment figure we have, because I say no, Mrs Gamarra. No, Mrs Gamarra, not even the average rate, because the average rate was 17%; not even the average rate, but I note that this gives you exactly the same. And look, Mrs. Gamarra, I've been worried about something you said and I didn't expect it from you. I am very concerned that you say here that it may become criminal for the Social Security Inspectorate to act and that it acts - not Minister Marlaska - often at the hands of the Ministry of the Interior, because we are no longer facing violations in the social order, but genuine criminal behaviour. That you have said on behalf of the People's Party, the main opposition party, that these actions can become criminal worries me very much, because, in fact, you are already determined to be out of the system. [[Applauds]] Do you want to tell me that when the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of the Interior are acting, they are doing so in violation of the law, Mrs. Gamarra? Are you telling me this for real? If that is true, I lose hope, there is nothing to do with the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I understand that you are kidnapped by VOX, but that you are on the verge of legality seems to me serious; it seems to me that you are not even responsible; it seems to me that you will have to explain to the inspectors what you have just said here today. And I am going to tell you, Mrs Gamarra, of the actions we carry out in the field, just as we do in many other productive activities in our country, do you know how many violations have been committed? It could give you serious offenses, how many offenses... Do you know how many, Mrs. Gamarra? Well, 3677. You mean here that this was committing crimes, Mrs. Gamarra? Do you know how much in terms of collection these violations were only in the social order and only in terms of the Public Employment Service, detached from Social Security, which Mr Escrivá leads? Well, nothing more and nothing less than $22.6 million. Do you know how much in social security contributions? Well, 4.5 million. Do you know what I would expect from a party that is right-wing and conservative and that I hope to defend legality in this rostrum? To send a clear message and tell the productive sectors of this country that those who do things right will be rewarded... [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u40	Mr. Hispan, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u41	...but to those who violate the law I would expect you, clearly, to tell them to abide by the law. This is what we have to do with the people we run in different areas of our country. And your role, Mrs. Gamarra, is very important. Perhaps you have the opportunity to correct and tell us Spanish and Spanish if you are in the rebellion of what we have seen these days in Lorca or are in compliance with the law. [[Protests.-Applause.]] It would be a good opportunity for him to explain it to us. And I'm still going, Mrs. Gamarra. You told us about the investigators. It would be good if you explained it. What do you want to tell us? That you want to continue in public research with the failed model of the People's Party? They say yes, phenomenal. Contract by work and determined service, that's an absolute country guarantee. They're very clear, all right, I like to hear it because we understand each other frankly. So, you want a devalued and poor public research; the Spanish government does not, because it knows that research is key, how we are living precisely in these pandemic times. It would therefore be good, Mrs Gamarra, beyond the discrepancies, that you will also ensure quality public research in our country. And I'm finishing up, Mrs. Gamarra. Let you tell us again here that you want us to earmark 10 billion euros from our country's Recovery Fund, depriving it of Spain's productive transformation, to fire the workers... I am waiting to be explained to the Commissioners of the European Union, because it is something impressive; impressive. Of course, they are bold, it is true; they are bold and daring, if I may say so, because it is never seen: 10 billion euros, which is actually what costs the implementation of the Austrian backpack - that is why it was rejected by employers and workers - you tell us that we are going not to transform the productive model but to fire workers in our country. [[rumors]] I insist, I thought it was press statements, but when I saw it on paper I didn't get out of my astonishment. And I finish the way I started, Mrs. Gamarra. I really like you quoting Dolores Ibarruri; it was too big, too big... [[Ms. Gázquez Collado utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u42	Mrs. Gázquez, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u43	... but look, Mrs. Gamarra, I was in Galicia these days, and you know what I've been told in my city, a city tired and beaten by unemployment and the evil so-called social conversion, the one we've never seen? Do you know what the naval auxiliary workers told me with names and surnames, Mrs. Gamarra? They said to me: Yolanda, I can't believe I stop having a contract for work or a certain service. Do you know what two personal friends told me when a letter came to them, without having to do anything, telling them that their temporary contract had become indefinite, friends and friends who often argue and make me even blacker than I can see? That they felt excited and that whoever they were thanked. [[Rumors]] Do you know what the workers at the hotel I slept at on Sunday in Santiago de Compostela told me? That the policy deployed by the Government of Spain had saved their lives. And to me, Mrs. Gamarra, that makes me proud. Believe me, my escorts were with me, I didn't make anything up. No, I get more... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u45	...that the good of the workers of this country, because they and they know that talking about contracts for work and determined service is talking about people's real lives. So, Mrs. Gamarra, having many discrepancies, I'm going to keep doing... don't worry, if I know it's an education problem. [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u46	Quiet. I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u47	It's an education problem, that's it, there's no turning back to it. [[Applauds]] Mrs Gamarra, I am a great defender of mobilizations in our country, first of all, because I recognize them in the constitutional text and, believe me, the social actors are here, but there are many social groups to which I say without a doubt - as Minister of Labour I have said many times publicly, although I cannot do them now - that, of course, they and they must continue to mobilize. Do not worry, I say it loud and clear, because I am convinced that this is what the Spanish constituent wanted to do and, above all, Mrs Gamarra, because I am a Democrat and I know that democracy in this country is not only built on social dialogue and political dialogue; I also know that democracy is widened by the mobilizations of the different groups of our country. [[rumors]] So, believe me, I'm going to keep defending myself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u49	Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u50	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Guitarte. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has to continue under silent conditions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u51	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the validation of the Royal Labour Reform Decree-Law. We do this, first of all, because of its origin and nature, a rule built from the social consensus, debated and agreed by business and trade union organizations with the support of the Ministry of Labour, in order to order labour relations and improve the modalities of contracts. The Voter Grouping 'Teruel Existes' is a cross-cutting demand and took consensus building as a basic rule of internal operation and also as a principle for intervention in politics. The well-built consensus has been the method that has allowed progress in Spanish politics; it must also be the way to design, for example, reforms that correct depopulation and reverse territorial imbalances. For this reason, the consensus between social organisations to design labour reform,this labour reform, is a step forward for the country. As we have already pointed out, it may not be easy to apply it in some labour sectors in the unpopulated provinces, which because of their economic atony and size of companies lack representative and legally constituted works councils to negotiate agreements. At this point it is possible that adaptations should be made to protect, help and contrast the implementation of the law, which we hope will be beneficial and fruitful for all Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Second Vice President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. In 2012, after the ruin bequeathed by the socialist government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, who in his damaging presidential fantasy had come to promise full employment, Foro Asturias supported a labour reform that was ousted by the left, but with the infallible Sánchez already in the Moncloa it has taken three and a half years to implement it. That reform proved to be a successful package of measures that reversed the socio-economic calamity that was likely to cost a very hard intervention by Spain, avoided by the government of Mariano Rajoy. Now, those of the derogatory culebrón who have failed to propose an unshakeable text of accession, which diminishes the participation of the General Courts and reduces it to the role of comparator, blocking legitimate parliamentary amendments in favour of the labour market. He refused to participate in this anti-democratic ceremony and I will therefore vote against the validation of this rule. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u55	Good morning. In the PRC we have been clear from the beginning. Although everything is better, we applaud an agreement reached by the representatives of the majority of Spanish entrepreneurs and the majority unions, where the Government, which is the largest employer in this country, is also present. In the PRC we are consistent with our itinerary, with our idea. The PRC does not negotiate blackmails or opposes when what is there is good for everyone. That is why we have been so clear from the first moment, we are here to defend the interest of all Spaniards, including pitchers. That is why it is incomprehensible that this Congress will vote against this agreement. People would not understand how their representatives can be so far away from society, so far away from what the street thinks. Wasn't it said that the majority of citizens' feelings had to be reflected in the laws? What democracy do those who are going to vote against today want? Isn't everyone asking us to come to an agreement? Well, here we have it, this is the cotton test, this is not a decree for use. Let us see the result of the vote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. First, a clarification, New - without that - Canaries - with that -, with eight islands and four spectacular islets, will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. And we are going to do so because, despite the fact that I am among those who, when the work counter-reform of 2012, committed ourselves to, as soon as possible, completely repealing the labour reform proposed by the People's Party, we have to recognize that, being this an incomplete labour reform project, it is a labour reform project that obviously represents a step forward on the above. [[The Lord]] And it is not only a step forward in terms of content - I must congratulate you on your explanation - but also on your procedure. The consensus procedure is directly opposed to the procedure by which the previous reform was carried out, which was to apply the roll, order and command, without listening to anyone, either in the House or outside the House. Therefore, that has a value that we recognize and, after a debate of our executive, we understand that we must support this royal decree-law because it is an advance. It is also true that we believe that there is more to be done, Minister, and I suppose we will have time to talk about that. One concern I have to move is that of the third sector. You know that the third sector is very important in relation to employment in the Spanish State. The third sector is a partnership of public administrations and operates on a project basis. Either this question is clarified as it has been clarified by the alternation training, for example, which is recognized within the reform project, or it is necessary to contemplate that they are in monumental trouble, because although we agree that contracts for works and services are a Francoist formula to extinguish, it is also true that they must be replaced by something so as not to endanger them in the future. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Coalition Canaria believes that if those who create jobs in this country, that it is businesses, and those who defend workers' rights, that it is unions, they have an agreement, because we have to accept it, because that is really the world of work. And not only that, because in this case not only do the employers and the national unions agree, but also the canary unions and the canary entrepreneurship. We've got two little things. One, there is a technical error in a certain article, and where it should say island says province, and that will be to the detriment of the workers precisely. We have already spoken with the Secretary of State, for the Canary Islands it is fundamental, because there would be layoffs of precarious workers if they did not move to another island; then for the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands it is important. The second thing I wanted to say to you is that I wish this job reform would apply to the public administrations, because part of those millions of day contracts have been from the public administrations. If we are concerned about the construction and service contracts of the third sector - I am referring to the Red Cross or the NGOs - that they come in, say, for a project and that they also affect certain municipalities, and we have been asked by the Federation of Municipalities that you see it. Finally, I would like to say that you have given some data on the development of unemployment and youth unemployment in this country when you were ruling the PP. Unfortunately, that 24% unemployment ten years ago and that 54% youth unemployment in the Canary Islands are today's data. We must continue to work with employment plans, with vocational training and, above all, with European funds to reverse this employment situation. In any case, we will support this labour reform, which is the one that has been agreed between employers and trade unions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u61	Thank you, President. Minister, what brings us to the vote today is not the repeal of the 2012 labor reform, which is their commitment in election campaign or speeches in previous legislatures. Only by comparing what you vehemently demand at that time and what you bring us, can we see that those who have missed the word and the commitments to the working class are primarily the PSOE and the Union Podemos. It is true that temporality is reduced, but, if you continue to say goodbye to the conditions imposed by the People's Party, what we have is that the indefinite are very fragile. They will continue to be dismissed under the conditions they imposed in terms of compensation, processing wages, ERE administrative authorization, etc. And, in terms of subcontracting, not all of the progress that you mentioned has been made. And he quotes the housekeepers, but in the collective where they are organized, which are Las Kellys, they are no less satisfied with this labor reform. [[Applauds]] See what Las Kellys have said lately. However, today, with what they bring us, they have the support of the employer, with that of the FAES, with that of the banker Botín, and they will end it by voting Citizens and the PeCat, heirs of Convergence, who already voted that of 2012. Any progress that can contain, with this photo, proves that it's ridiculous. And they'll tell us that any progress is good. Well, it depends, because what you are doing today is squandering a force accumulated in ten years with strikes and mobilizations, and what you lose is credibility. With what credibility will they present themselves at the next elections to say that it will now repeal what was left on the road, if when they have had the opportunity they have not done so? They have not, and have excused social dialogue, because social dialogue is a method, not an end in itself. And what is unfair is that the right hand, in its moment, approves the labor reform only by agreeing with the employers and, then, when you arrive, heeds the Social Dialogue Bureau's feet and hands, so that the employers are back on the table, put their vetoes and limit what can be won. [[Applauds]] And they are always, in 2012 and 2022, they always win. In our view, it is a mistake to convert the accumulated force of strikes and mobilizations, the force that led you to the government, into the fiasco that you bring us today. It's a mistake. That is why we will vote that no and we will continue to fight for the repeal of the 2012 labor reform by the hand of the alternative fighting trade union forces, especially in Galicia, Euskal Herria and the Catalan countries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u62	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on, good morning. We come here today with a hand extended, but with a closed fist. The closed fist is that of the tradition of workers' struggles, of general strikes, of the historical claims of class trade unionism and combative. It is therefore a gesture of commitment to yesterday, to today and tomorrow, to the principles and values that societies have always made progress in public rights and freedoms. The hand extended is that of the agreement and the proposal. This has been the willingness of our group, of the Basque sovereignist left, to make this bill, this law, the best of the laws for the workers of Basque Herria and the Spanish State. Not that we are left by those who do not stand for election, but that we want and need. That is why we made a concrete proposal, a proposal that improved this law, so that it would move from current inadequacy to one of notable results. A proposal that we have moved and made public with the clearest will on our part to have been able to reach an agreement that would gather everything that has led millions of people to mobilize over the course of these ten years, mobilizations that prompted the consensus of the social, trade union and political left virtually as a whole. That is why we have raised five questions, not twenty-fifty, five. One was to recover and establish the prevalence and enforcement priority of provincial and autonomous collective agreements and agreements, together with the legal shielding of autonomous interprofessional agreements wherever they exist, and it has not been possible. Another is the incorporation into this law of the necessary administrative authorization in the face of collective redundancies or employment regulation files. They know well what the workers of PCBs, Tubacex, Arcelor, Arnova and hundreds and hundreds of companies are talking about. This has not been possible either. We plan to specify, within the framework of this law or reform, a revision and modification of the causation and procedures of dismissal, as well as of the processes of substantial modification of working conditions, so that they stop scrambling once and for all the reasons of economic, technical and organizational cause such as the drawer or attic where they can put the rights and lives of the workers in order to further optimize their business benefits. It wasn't possible either. We plan to incorporate in the text the recovery of compensation for wrongful dismissal of forty-five days and a maximum of forty-two monthly instalments, which was before the 2012 reform. The answer is that this was not possible either. We intend to recover salaries for improper dismissals, so that no worker will be blackmailed on a long judicial journey. And what was the answer? That this wasn't possible either. This, and not another, has been our position at all times, and now that this is so fashionable, for me to understand correctly, I will say it: not one more or one less coma. You see, compañeros and compañeras of the left here present, it's not a proposal of maxims, it was five points. We did not bring here today the socialization of the means of production, nor did we bring the assault on the heavens immediately. We go step by step, but with firm and decisive step. We just suggest that in this historical situation - because this is what is historical, the conjuncture of a parliamentary majority of the left and not so much reform - we carry on something that has been proclaimed for decades, but centuries, the working class: that the balance be leveled between the slave and the boss. [[The lady]] Because which of the issues I have mentioned is harmful to the working class? Which of the five questions I have said makes life and personal development of the working class difficult? Which one of them doesn't deserve to have from now on? Should we leave them for tomorrow, ten years from now, for when the employer wants to press the veto unlock button that has been given to her at this Social Dialogue Bureau? What was not part of the argument that made millions of people go out on the streets from 2012 until now in different general strikes, more if it fits in Euskal Herria? We hold onto this position. You see, it's nothing original, but we also say it. We do not do this to weaken this government and to make the investiture block stagger. If today it fractures, and it will fracture in the devout sense, from tomorrow it will touch to do it again and we will have a constructive spirit. We and we are going to work for it, but let no one forget it: only left-wing policies achieve progress for the working class, for the popular majority; never do the right-wing or the right-wing. We stand in our position because we promise the workers. We promise to repeal the reform of the People's Party and therefore ask them to vote. Today we defend the value of your vows to the end. You see, nothing surprising. If anything, it's consistent. We continue to defend the need to repeal all the harmful aspects of the 2012 labor reform, because one or the other marks the line between defending the popular majority or giving the right-wing elites a taste. But above all, we cling to this decision because we have a word, because we are people of our word. We have advocated for ten years the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party. We have signed with you the repeal of labour reform, and for us and for us it is binding. It's commitment acquired or word given. Julio Anguita: Program, program, program. The program is concrete, signed and promised to the popular classes. There can be no demand from the black men or women in Brussels or from the CEOE - and there has been, even if they do not want to count - that it is above our commitment to our class. Not for us and us. It is neither logical nor reasonable for the opportunity given us by a self-proclaimed left-wing majority to improve and strengthen this law in its handling as a bill with the proposals that we have again moved here today. Neither reasonable nor very innovative, I would say, when the forms and modes that directly evoke the Moncloa Pacts and the regime of 78 are given more courage and force; pacts and a regime that seem to want to be resurrected today rather than taking advantage of the historic opportunity given us by the investiture bloc and the initial shared and expressed commitment to go far beyond what is intended today. We don't do well when the employer is given more courage and decision-making power than the forces we represent hundreds of thousands more than the employer itself. I end with two quotes from two great women who I believe, together, are summarizing our past, present and future position in this space of struggle and work that for us and ourselves, for the people of the Basque independenceist left, is the Congress of Deputies. To the left-wing people who fear access to the power of the extreme right-wing, we say to them: do not be afraid, we are people of our word, and if it is for us and ourselves, they will not pass, which has been printed in the history of Dolores Ibarruri. And to whom these days ask pragmatism and embrace the memory of the fish, we repeat to them what Angela Davis proclaimed: We are not here to accept the things that we cannot change, we are here to change them things that we cannot accept. [[Finish your speech in Basque.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the day is well chosen to vote on this amendment to labour reform. Today it is San Blas, celebrated in many places, and already know that it is the pattern of otorhinolaryngologists and protects from sore throats. Man, you will always protect when you have to swallow an ice ball large enough to approve by those who do not vote for this reform by conviction, but simply do so by their intolerance towards formations like mine, and who actually want to take over the government. To others, being a patron of otorhinolaryngologists, I hope to protect them from deafness, despite the continuous warnings and with time they had. We like consensus, and we also appreciate what has been done in the social dialogue, but consensus is not imposed, let alone in a democratic parliament. I do not hide that there are many things that seem to me to be positive: encouraging indefinite procurement; the new regulation of the fixed contract discontinuous, which is going to have more impact in other places than in Euskadi, but it seems to me very positive and it was necessary to do so; the mechanisms of reduction of the temporality; the recovery of the ultraactivity, which we, too, have always demanded. We were helped by what we pointed out to them about the Special Employment Centres. They also assisted us when we pointed out to them that alternating training is not limited to vocational training, but also that it is open to the framework for training for employment; and it is in the second final provision. We are also concerned about other things, for example, that measures for structural flexibility of enterprises and job stabilization are active employment policies. The provision of the REDD mechanism, related to these, in the reform is given to SEPE on a unitary basis, although this provision is not of a contributory nature, and this breaks the jurisdictional distribution already laid down in judgments 100 and 157 of 2017 on the Preparatory Plan and the Activation Plan for Employment. The same applies to the financing of allowances for common contingencies and the financing and monitoring of training activities of companies, both in respect of allowances and in respect of their additional financing. It will therefore be necessary to respect the division of powers, and where there is competence in active employment policies, it will be the bodies responsible for them that develop this, not the SEPE, and, at the same time, to adjust the financing channels, which in our case, as you know, are particular. In addition, we have a matter that for us was irrefutable and urgent, and that we considered - and we warned it so - that it should be fixed, that it is to protect the Basque framework of labour relations and the Basque interprofessional agreement of the year 2017, a matter that requires the unanimity of the social partners in Euskadi and that does no harm to anyone; it does no harm to anyone. By the way, I would like to recall that the trade union majority in Euskadi, which is different from that of the whole State, has not been represented in that social dialogue. Therefore, you also understand that our perspective in contemplating the agreement affects some of the duties that are there. We, of course, have been clear and transparent, we have not deceived anyone; in fact, we have warned a long time in advance, because we were seeing that, delighted with bringing forward the full agreement in the social dialogue, they were not paying attention to Parliament, and then we had to go through here; they were not securing a majority, and we were concerned. That's why we warned the unions, and we've been with them, as you know. We warned the boss, and we were with her. We also warned the Ministry of Labour. I thank you very much, Minister, because I know that you have committed yourself, the effort and the will you have always shown with us also to try to reach agreements; I tell you sincerely. And we warned the president; we expressly went to La Moncloa to tell him this: for us this is something that has to be there, and we have to fix it now; that it be arranged in social dialogue if you want, whenever and, if not, it will have to be later, but we cannot look elsewhere with this topic. I think they have had it in their hand, and the members of the government know perfectly well, from the president to the last minister, that the content has not been a problem. The content has not been a problem, it has been the stage fear or the rigidity of some. When the employer said that she would not admit to changing a coma, to me what I thought, sincerely, was an intolerable blackmail to democratic representatives. From the first day they closed in the band, they, the boss, with statements like this: we will not admit a single change. But it is that ministers and the President of the Government joined immediately, socialist ministers especially as they did not admit any change. Well, that's the height of anti-parliamentarianism, because if you wanted that to be the case, you had to have obtained a majority before, to negotiate a majority, because it is up to Parliament, by law, to approve a reform of this caliber. Bringing it as a decree-law is an anomaly per se, but you justify it, and I can understand it. They justify this on the basis of the European demands that processing be swift and that it be more or less, let's say, fitted. Well, but if the problem is Europe and the problem is the millions that can come, and so on, talk to Declan Costello, who has been his interlocutor and is Deputy Director General of Economic and Financial Affairs, or with Gentiloni, and clearly explain to them that you can make changes without touching the fundamental core of the agreement, which is what Europe cares about. I'm sure Europe would understand this. Europe would understand that changes could be made that did not mean breaking the heart of the negotiation. But it has not even been attempted by the Government. We asked them nothing to break the core of what was agreed at the social table: to protect the Basque framework and the interprofessional agreement; to protect the agreements at the level of the autonomous community when they improve the situation of workers. Who can be against this? In any case, some of the employer, and I think not all of them, because today, however much is said, it is at the dawn of the reservation that can be made in state agreements and if they say they prevail, they prevail. Therefore, this framework is not guaranteed today. The employer says it is not necessary and today has said the spokesman of the PSOE: if it is not necessary, if they already have it. If so, if it is not a change, if in practice it is the same, why are they opposed to it? Why do they object? It's a contradiction, a real contradiction. If it does not change what we are proposing, if it is already, then do so. The only explanation for this is that this foolishness is simply for symbolic and political-ideological reasons. We must hear Mr Garamendi's statements saying that he breaks the unity of the market, when in private he has told us otherwise. What hypocrisy on his part! What the hell will the relationship of agreements to market unity have to do with it?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u66	Mr. Esteban, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u67	Yeah, I'm finishing up. What the hell does that have to do with anything? It has nothing to do with it, because then, as it is now, this would be an archipelago, with the amount of provincial and minor agreements there are. Our position - it is over, Madam President - has been clear, honest, moderate and reasoned. They know that what we requested was possible and did not harm anyone, and I appreciate your efforts. The Basque Nationalist Party will not give up, well known to its people, and will take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the parliamentary procedure to try to incorporate it into the legal system. May St. Blas protect the throats and heal the deaf. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first. [[Pause]] Excuse me, because I've jumped into a parliamentary group. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Today is an important day for Spain. It is an important day for Spain because it is going to adopt a fundamental regulation for one of the most relevant issues in the life of any Spanish citizen, who is his job and his future job. But today is also an important day for Spain because for the first time in a long time those who usually win in the political market of Congress lose today. Today he loses Bildu, today he loses Esquerra and today he loses sectarianism, which he wanted to make our country a much worse country for employment. We know that employment, precariousness and unemployment have been and remain one of the main structural problems in Spain. They have been so with the governments of the People's Party and the governments of the Socialist Party, they have been so with the labour regulations of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which do not manage to assume that we have a country problem and that it is not simply resolved with their dialectics of blaming each other. The data is there, and with both PP and PSOE governments we have been leaders in precariousness, unemployed leaders and youth unemployment leaders. Therefore, I would ask both the People's Party and the Socialist Party or Podemos not to try so hard to make these parliamentary speeches, because the People's Party is going to vote as long as not for any regulations that the government approves of the opposite sign, as the Socialist Party and Podemos would vote as not for any labour regulations that the People's Party would bring, even if it was endorsed by the social actors. So I ask you please to save us the usual theater, because budgets are not supported, investments are not supported, educational laws are not supported or negotiated; they are only going to agree to distribute Spanish Broadcasting, the judges and the Court of Auditors. That is why it is so necessary that, in the midst of these two gentlemen, of these two parties, of these two political movements or spaces, there is a liberal party, there is a sensible party, that always in important moments for Spain contributes sensibly and has a sense of state. We are very aware of what is being discussed and adopted here today. We are aware that employment for a citizen is one of the most important things, because it is what allows you to have a life plan, to be independent, to form a family, to realize yourself personally and, ultimately, to be free. We have not had to tell them: we know very well the nerves that pass before going to an interview; we know very well the joy with which you call your family or friends when they hire you; we know the satisfaction that you feel when you go up or progress within your company; we know perfectly well what it is to go through a very hard crisis like that of 2008,2009 or 2010 in a private company, and we know what self-employed people and SMEs suffer to keep their jobs with taxes, bureaucracy and costs. I think that if all the political leaders of the main parties in this country knew what this is in their own flesh another cock would sing in Spain, another cock would sing in our country. That is why we have worked wisely and hard these weeks, to bring forward what is common sense. I will tell you about the characteristics of the rule that is being voted on and that I hope will be adopted today. This is not a rule of Sanchez nor of Yolanda Díaz nor of the Government, this rule has been made by social actors. Therefore, it is the least sanchist rule that can be adopted in this legislature; it is very little like what Sánchez promised, it is very little like what Podemos demanded and it burys many of the sophlamas that the left had made with regard to labour regulations. I do not know if you remember this document in agreement between Bildu, Podemos and the PSOE, signed by Mrs Lastra, which said that labour reform would be completely repealed and that this kind of thing generated uncertainty and legal uncertainty. [[shows a document]] Well, today this rule consolidates elements of the 2012 Labour Reform. Today there is more legal certainty, because it is a rule that will have been adopted by a conservative government and by a supposedly left-wing government, and that will be good for Spain, because it will give credibility and legal certainty, as these sophistications and promises of Podemos and of the most radical part of the PSOE what they did, as you know, was to stop investments and drive away recruitment. Is this rule better? Yeah, a lot, like the one from 2012. Undoubtedly, but it also incorporates improvements, and I have to say that some of them are in line with what Citizens have often asked for, which is to decrease that contract menu to favor the indefinite contract and fight against temporality. But it has another characteristic of this rule, and it is that it will give Spain credibility in view of receiving European funds, which was one of the commitments our country has made to our partners. Why? Because it's backed by the social partners. This is not the reform of a government, but the reform of a country backed by the social partners, which is much better - much better - than what Mr Sánchez would have wanted to have done. All we have to do is see - with affection I tell you - the little enthusiasm, Mrs Díaz, that you have had in defending this reform. It is therefore ridiculous for the People's Party to say that the 2012 reform is wonderful, as if there had been no unemployment and precariousness since then; it is ridiculous to say at the same time that this is a mere make-up and that they do not touch even 10%; it is ridiculous to acknowledge that it is endorsed by the CEO and the entrepreneurs and the self-employed and then come here and vote that not saying that it is very bad. It is ridiculous, because these social partners will continue to oppose other things from the government, such as the rise in taxes or the axe that Mr Escriva wants to give to the self-employed, but in this they have achieved a good agreement. I would also like to say that today Bildu and Esquerra have not managed to get rid of Spain's labour regulations. Today Bildu and Esquerra have lost negotiating power. Today Citizens have managed to ensure that the future employment contracts of the Spaniards do not depend on what Otegi and Rufián decide in an office with these gentlemen of the government. [[Applauds]] And since that is good for Spain, there has been Citizens. Thanks to our responsibility to go out and say that if you didn't touch a coma and you didn't give in to these gentlemen, there we were going to be, these parties have lost negotiating power. I know that other games - VOX and PP - would be delighted that Bildu and Esquerra would have gotten away with it, that today Bildu would have been very happy and Mr. Rufián too, but we always, always and always will think about the general interest. And we do not like this government at all, but we are aware that, as long as this government is, each and every one of our votes will serve to do the least possible damage to Spain. Today, thanks to Citizens, they lose Bildu and Esquerra and win the workers and entrepreneurs of this country. Today, thanks to Citizens, Spain will have more legal certainty and more credibility in an important labour market. Today, the wisdom of sectarianism will triumph. I am always proud to be the president of Citizens, but I want to tell you, comrades, that today I am more proud than ever of being the president of the liberal party than always, in important moments for Spain, acts responsibly and thinking about our country. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, after two years of always-delayed promises, you come here today with a proposal that not only does it not repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, but consolidates its most damaging aspects. In the face of propaganda, the reality is that they keep without touching the most harmful elements for the interests of the workers and that they motivated two general strikes in 2012. You do not touch the facilities or the reduction of redundancy; the administrative authorization of EREs; the salaries of processing; the prevalence of company agreements, which can worsen those in the sector, except in wages; the prevalence of state agreements; the possibility of discontinuing the agreement; the ability of companies to change working conditions and collective geographical mobility or the irregular distribution of the day, up to 10%, for example. This proposal is an expression of non-compliance with their promises and commitments and does not serve to recover rights for workers. You say that we will have to explain why we are voting against a disappointing and fraudulent proposal. No, Madam Minister, it is you who will have to explain why, by having a parliamentary majority to do so, you did not want to recover, for example, the compensation of forty-five days a year in the wrongful dismissals. [[The Lord]] You have chosen to follow the dictates of the European Union and to satisfy the interests of employers rather than to comply with workers. To have it approved by the ultra-liberal right is the best practical image of it. As a consistent and firm force in the defence of the interests of the Galician working class, the BNG voted against to force this government to negotiate a proposal that would really allow for progress in rights for workers, which would happen if this decree were not validated. In any case, we ask that it be validated as a bill, because we will never renounce or renounce progress in collective rights for the Galician working class and the entire State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u72	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u73	Thank you very much, President. The legislature does not end today, and I recognize that today is a complicated day for me. People I know and appreciate have brought me their disconcertingness or disappointment, and I understand that. Others have brought me their encouragement and recognition. Thank you. Whatever the meaning of my vote would have consequences. I could have voted no. I understand the reasons for Esquerra, BNG, CUP, Bildu and also PNV. They are legitimate and I share many. The government generated so many expectations... and now they're too short. The reasons for PP and VOX are others, the worse. They are not interested in the workers or the early Spain, they are interested in returning to power to make politics precisely against the early Spain. Despite sharing the reasons for a part of the investiture block, Compromís has decided to vote yes. Because bringing down this reform does not guarantee that there will be another. Because although many rights are lacking, we advance in others. Yesterday I got a tweet from a person who had been chaining partial contracts for four years and said to me: I am indefinite. Because workers, fixed discontinuous workers, temporary workers, low-cost subcontractors will earn rights; they will recover rights and wages. Because trade unions regain negotiating capacity, they maintain sectoral agreements. Because sanctions are tightened for those who fail. The corporal. No, it has not been easy to decide our vote, but we voted with our heads high and our conscience calm. If a cleaner from a hotel in Benidorm, Malaga, Las Palmas or Mallorca ends up winning 2000, 3000 or 5000 euros more will have been worth my vote. And today the legislature does not end, today a new session begins. We have at least three. Let's have the skill...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u74	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u75	... to take advantage of them. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u76	Thank you. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about how we end this debate or how we go to the different political parties, it is about how the workers are left after this debate and this reform. That is what we are really playing in this debate. The workers, Mrs Gamarra, suffered a lot with the 2012 reform: the workers saw their rights violated; it brought them precariousness, temporaryity, and struck especially young people and women. Therefore, from More Country-Greens Equo we will support this reform, because it is the first one that in many years does not recede in workers' rights and because it regains social dialogue. These are two very important reasons for taking a stand in this debate. Moreover, we have had dialogue - the ministry has listened to us - and we have tried to compromise agreements that accompany this reform, such as putting in place a plan to combat the abuses of partiality in employment, which affects especially women and young people, or a line of collaboration on mental health and precariousness. In any case, this is an important day for workers. And a warning to navigators, minister and gentlemen of the government. Much progress has been made in this legislature by a block of investment progress. Today we have this reform and, of course, it will not change the majorities, but if we are not careful what can change is the legislature. It is therefore necessary to recompose, because it may not change the majority, but it may interrupt a time of change and a time of proposals that are essential for workers and for society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u78	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u79	Thank you, President. Vice-Presidents, ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this labour reform that we are going to be voting on today is the result of a consensus, an agreement between employers and workers, between employers and trade unions. This in any other country would be good news and the Legislative Chambers will receive it with open arms. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, we would like to congratulate you personally, the Government, but above all the trade unions and employers, on this agreement. Political agreements or consensus should always contribute upwards. With regard to content, in addition to some specific issues, we agree with the aspects that are being modified: the prevalence of the sectoral agreement versus the company agreement, the ultraactivity and the reduction of temporality. And we agree with the aspects that are not addressed: processing wages and the cost of redundancies. If this labour reform is not approved today, the social dialogue is affected by death. If this labour reform is not approved today, more instability is created in the labour market at a time of economic recovery, the labour relations framework is not improved and, most importantly, the European funds are coming in. That's why we're going to vote in favour. And, look, I see here today a paradox. While the unions and the employers make an effort to agree and agree on a realistic, pragmatic and feasible labour reform, I am seeing that some of you are striving to advance the employers on the right and others of you are striving to advance the unions on the left. Paradoxes of life. We voted in favour...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u80	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u81	... of this labour reform of 2012 and we will vote in favour of this labour reform. Time takes away and gives reason; it did so in 2012 and it will do so in 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u82	Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u83	Thank you, President. I am not the first to remind you, Minister, that you promised to repeal the Labour Reform of the People's Party, a labour reform made by and for large companies: it excludes 99.9% of the business fabric of Catalonia. What you have done has been to make a patch with the usual and from above. A dialogue between the CEOE and the Spanish trade unions is that, a dialogue between the CEOE and the Spanish trade unions, is not a social dialogue. We cannot give good for a dialogue that excludes the majority of workers in Catalonia, the Catalan self-employed: more than six hundred thousand Catalan self-employed members mistreated by all the Spanish governments, also by their own. It is a dialogue that excludes 99.8% of the business sector in Catalonia, small and medium-sized enterprises that account for more than 60% of GDP, 70% of employment, and also - I will give you a figure - a quarter of the SMEs in your country. I hope you find some arguments strong enough, Minister. You have turned your back on them, sticking to the same ones the People's Party turned to in 2012. I'm getting to the point. Are you prepared to amend Article 84 of the Workers' Statute, as you ask... Is this government prepared to return the powers that belong to Catalonia and that the People's Party has taken away from them? [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] I doubt they will, because you're doing the same thing. Can you commit to respecting the... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] I'm on my way. Madam Minister, you cannot demand that we support a labour reform based on a dialogue in which workers, self-employed people and Catalan SMEs have been completely ignored. They have ignored 99.8% of Catalonia's business fabric. Social dialogue in Spain, Minister, not for català. Thank you so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u84	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u85	Allow me a preview, a memory for our colleague Jordi Salvador, who is confined in his house by COVID, who has cured all this and would deserve to be here. [[Applauds]] A hug, Jordi. A couple of comments. Some of you, especially since the ministry, have spoken a lot about Cadiz and the metal workers of Cadiz. That's very good. Next time don't send them a police tank; it would be fine. [[Applauds]] And the second comment is that you - also from the ministry - have spoken a lot about Fatima Báñez. Well, Fatima Báñez works for the CEO and supports her labor reform, so don't name her that much. I think at this point a couple of headlines can be drawn from everything that's going on this morning. The first is that the world does not end; the world does not end. Some believe that today the world is over. It's not over. Tomorrow we will have to keep talking because we are, at least us and ourselves, very aware of the alternative. And the second headline is that social dialogue is very good. We greatly respect social actors, enormously, and we even find it very skilful that they are all in this, but laws are made in Congress, like it more or like it less. [[Applauds]] And when you come here saying: this is what is and is not touched because I have agreed out, you don't think Congress is the seat of popular sovereignty; you think Congress is a notary, a notary that seals agreements that are out. And for us and for us that is a very dangerous precedent that we obviously do not accept. But today I am not going to address those who have made this law. We've talked a lot between us, ladies and gentlemen. We talk so much among ourselves that sometimes we just talk to ourselves. So today I am going to speak to those affected by this law, that is, to the people, that is, to the workers. So, you who will be affected by this law, do you know how much it cost your boss to fire unjustly, after two years working and charging 1000 euros a month, with the PP and Rajoy labor reform? Exactly 2531 euros. Do you know how much it costs your boss now to fire unfairly, after two years working for 1000 euros a month, with this labor reform? Same thing, 2531 euros. Same thing. You know why? You know why? Because neither the Ministry nor the Government - and it is hard to say this - have wanted to recover compensation or just compensation in the face of unfair dismissals. Could they do that? Yes, they could. First, because they promised it-very important in politics -; second, because we proposed it to them, and third, because they had the numbers and most lefts to do so. That this job reform pleases the CEO, believe me, it's no coincidence. You, who are affected by this law, do you know how much it cost your boss every month since I unfairly fired you until a judge handed down a sentence on the PP's labor reform? Zero euros. Why? Because the PP and Rajoy took on the processing wages that, hey, make your boss think before they unfairly fire you. Do you know how much it'll cost your boss now to fire you the months since that happens until the judge makes a sentence? Zero euros, same thing, exactly the same thing. And you know why? Because the ministry and the government have not - they have not - wanted to recover the salaries of processing. Could they do that? Yes, they could. First, because they promised; second, because we proposed it to them, and third, because - I repeat - there was a majority of leftists willing to do it. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the question is not why we do not accept this labour reform; the question is why they accept it. If you like it or if they tell you that you have to like the same job reform that CEOE, AFAES, Santander Bank and Citizens like, who's wrong, you or them? [[Applauds]] Esquerra Republicana is not asking the government today to honour the promises and the electoral program of Esquerra Republicana. Republican Left today is simply asking the government to keep its promises and to keep its electoral agenda. Perhaps some militant or militant of the Communist and United Left Party sounds like this: program, program, program. It's just what we've been defending for ten years. Because this is not the repeal of the labor reform they promised you, this is the retouching of the labor reform they promised you they wouldn't do. And let no one come to tell you that if this isn't voted on, it's that the PP's labor reform comes back, because if you sell someone a motorcycle and it turns out to be a bike and you tell him that at least he has wheels, you're lying to him and, above all, you're trying to scam him, and we're not to scam anyone. [[Applauds]] The truth, the hard truth - and to the facts I refer - is that this reform - it is very hard to say - is exactly the labor reform that would have negotiated, signed and voted for Albert Rivera if he had been vice president. [[A Member of Parliament: No way!]] It's as hard as that. Let me say something to end it and to whoever wants to understand it. Republican Left, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't work under threat; it doesn't work under threat. This has not been a negotiation process, this has been a process of pressure and denial. Here the inexplicable position, believe me, is not ours, because, ultimately, we and we have voted to do exactly what we are doing here today. And you? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u86	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u87	Let's start at the beginning. This is a quiet, ambitious and useful reform to face the scourges of the system and, in addition, to change the culture of employment relations in Spain; it is an extensive text and all its content are improvements for the workers, everything, absolutely everything. This reform is designed, for the first time, so that the most precarious people have rights, for women, for young people and for those who are not so young anymore today. With this law, for many - for many - it will be the first time we win labor rights, that is nothing, and is that in this country there are already several generations that we have only known precariousness. In the 1990s, they told us a story: if you studied a lot, you spoke many languages and you endured a precarious trembling, the longing for stability was waiting for you. Better a bad job than being unemployed. When you're a father, you'll eat eggs, they'll tell us. They told us, moreover, that it was temporary, that young people could go shooting with less and that when we were older - parents - it would already arrive that unicorn white called a fixed contract. Work hard, they told us, and we did, we worked for four hard 7 to 7 and the garbage contracts became the norm. Aznar and Zapatero told us that Spain was in the Champions League of economies, but the benefits are not redistributed and we moved from precarious work to vital. The 2008 crisis came and the losses - there they are - are redistributed and socialized for all: cuts, redundancies, unemployment, evictions..., and what had to be temporary became structural. Poor Reserve Army! Precarity and unemployment were not a youthful stage, they were and are the right-wing plan for our lives, that is their idea of freedom and that is their model of labor relations. We also learned that recognizing a right does not mean being able to exercise it. And M. Rajoy arrived with his labor reform and took advantage of the great recession to lower wages structurally, to kick off collective bargaining in favor of the employer and to facilitate individual and collective dismissal. This law completely reverses the objectives of the reform of the People's Party, a reform that they obviously imposed on the social partners and Parliament. Not all Parliament, there were the founders of Junts perCat, who gave powers to the Generalitat of Catalonia, because their flag is business. [[Applauds]] You don't vote not out of love for the workers; no, Junts despises the workers, despises them. They obey Foment del Treball, who voted against this reform in the CEOE's internal vote. They have also left Catalonia with the lowest levels of self-government that we have ever known and allow the luxury of calling Spaniards, as if it were an insult, the Catalan unions - Catalans, Mrs Nogueras - that founded the Catalan school and those who voted for them - and listen to me well - more people than the President of the Generalitat. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Do you share Republican Left this contempt for trade unions? Are you going to be the fool helpful in the struggle of Foment and CEOE dragged by their government partners? Are you going to whitewash your classism and your supremacism? What are Esquerra and Bildu playing right? I'd like to believe that no, I'm telling you, but there are a lot of people who might think they're voting not for election calculations. That Junts makes a reminder and re-votes with the People's Party is understandable, but that Esquerra or Bildu vote with the People's Party and with VOX against an objective - objective - improvement of rights, there are many people who I don't think will understand. While some were walking through Congress with printers and agreed with the right in Parliament, others were planting faces at companies playing the job. [[Applauds]] Thousands of men and women have struggled tirelessly to curb and dampen the scope of laws designed to express and exploit workers, not a few of their voters. At every negotiating table, in businesses and on the street we have many labor reforms; we endure the repression of 315.3, that article of the Criminal Code which, thanks to this Government, we have already combined in the past, but more than three hundred trade unionists have gone through criminal proceedings for exercising a fundamental right. And, thus, a new generation of workers has been created to whom today this reform responds. Many people have made it possible for this rule to come here, and I cannot name them all, but if we talk about people who have left behind to defend labor rights, today I want to remember a name, that of Alberto Rodríguez. [[Applauds]] Deep changes never happen by a person or by a law, this is well known by the minister, although there are people who help and laws that encourage him. This reform is neither decaffeinated nor makeup. Those who say that are scorning the achievements of thousands of workers, are scorning social dialogue, show very little knowledge of the world of work and lack empathy with the people who have endured precariousness for decades. The reform that we validate today not only reverses part of Rajoy's decree, is that it goes much further: it means a break with all the legislation that has promoted abusive temporality since 1984. To those who legitimately think that we should go further I tell you that there are two years left of the legislature and you can be sure that this will not be the last law or the last right we win. We will continue to raise wages, continue to improve employment and continue to reduce precariousness and temporality, and we will do so through social dialogue. And I wonder, how will we be in better condition to meet these challenges, with indefinite contracts and strong agreements or with temporary contracts and precariousness? Ask yourself that. With this law we gain strength to keep moving forward, what matters. What fight are you gonna give if they don't even have to fire you? With not renewing it at this time is enough. In the face of the abuse of temporality, compensation for dismissal and guarantees of collective dismissal do not come. Let's see if you understand that. Either this reality changes already, before recruitment goes up as a result of European recovery and funds, or precariousness and unemployment will mark our lives forever. This is what we play today. This is the conjuncture, Mr. Matute. Nobody talks about the content of this reform. If they really thought it was insufficient, they would vote in favour, making legitimate criticism, or abstain. [[Mr. Matute García de Jalón makes negative gestures]] Today, the whole of Parliament should vote on this reform because it is consensus-based, but it is not unjustifiable for those who identify themselves as leftists, because they basically vote on the reform of the People's Party today. In addition, it is curious the awareness of some critical voices with the appearance of extremely favorable polls for Yolanda Díaz among the voters of these formations. At least be honest. This reform is the first serious attempt to combat insecurity and is based on the experiences of market protection policy in the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u88	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u89	The right-wing proposal is temporary contracts and EREs; ours, stability and ERTs. Massive redundancies versus job maintenance. This is it. And here protecting employment, generating employment, improving rights, all this, generating employment. [[Rumors.-Several ladies and gentlemen: Time!]] I'm on my way. These days I've felt a lot of shame, but I want to remember Almudena Grandes once again. They're not going to steal our joy, because we've had a lot of trouble getting here, it's a lot of people who have struggled and today we're happy to be able to go home and say we're coming back with new rights. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Commu Puem-Galicia in common, stand-up.-Applause from the members of the Government present in the Chamber, some of them stand-up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u90	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u91	Mr. President, thank you very much. These are times of darkness and uncertainty, of fears and pre-powers. Minister, you, in the purest leftist style that has been imposed as a dogma of sapphire behavior in this House, threatened VOX a short time ago with the following sentence: if VOX were to rule, they would have massive strikes and mobilizations. It was not a distracted warning to navigators, but a statement of intentions where it is made clear who commands in the subsidized class unions in Spain, turned into tools at the service of the political interests of the left. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, language modifies thought, indeed, and you, only because of this altar threat to the purest Long Knight style that you like so much, to justify the negative vote to this labor reform, to which we have opposed from the first moment for clear and obvious reasons in form and substance. In shape. Once again, the Government resorts to the misuse of article 86 of the Spanish Constitution and to the figure of the royal decree-law, as did the People's Party at the time, by curtailing legislative power in a structural reform, which is not a minor issue at all, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out. And on the merits: five amending articles, seven additional articles, nine transitional articles, one derogation and eight final articles incorporating some of the reforms outlined in component 23 of the recovery plan submitted to the European Commission. Well, without going into the criticism of the still and vaporous texts that appear in the report, which admit an interpretation and the contrary - hence the Commission accepts them - the truth is that the reform is mainly understood in two areas, that of contracting and that of collective bargaining. In short, recruitment: it's just a nominal make-up of contracts that costs the same. Point. Beyond the provisions, we could have sought formulas by which the temporality, necessary by the Spanish productive model, was not associated with precariousness, but for this purpose it should have introduced a flexibility mechanism through, for example, article 41 of the Workers' Statute, since, in the face of complicated situations of companies, they can only opt for dismissal. [[applause]] That is to say, we are once again increasing the cost of hiring the company, the tax on labour and more barriers to entry. Collective bargaining. The aim of ultraactivity and the strengthening of the sectoral agreement, when it was already de facto and did not endanger the rights of workers, has only one objective, according to the text itself, and says: Recovering the central role and strengthening the legitimate scope of action of the negotiating subjects of the collective agreements. In short, raise the power of the subsidized left-wing unions, the same that run through the streets at the hands of terrorists asking for the freedom of ETA prisoners who have killed hundreds of workers. [[applause]] So let it be clear that we are not the People's Party, let alone Citizens. We will not only admit any labour reform that would be beneficial to Spanish workers, to job creation, to businesses, to boost our economy, but we would even be their supporters, but not precisely of this reform, because this reform, as the Government wants, only serves the interests of the class unions and the IBEX 35, abandoning the majority of workers, making it difficult to create jobs and obviating SMEs and self-employed people as the main drivers of the occupation in Spain. [[Applauds]] And most importantly, the main thing is forgotten and yet the text itself gives us the clue in the second paragraph of the exhibition first, when it is said: It is not the labor norm the only place to face and solve these problems, and this is where the big changes have to be made. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish State today is a looting and plundering structure of the middle and working classes, which confiscates by the double method of inflation, on the one hand, and the fiscal pressure, on the other, which is reducing to misery millions of Spaniards, when work is the great heritage of many of those Spaniards. [[applause]] What cannot be done is that a worker who collects 1400 euros costs the company 2200 euros, and that, moreover, that average Spanish Juan has to pay 21% of all his operations to the largest commissioner who is the State, without prejudice to all the direct and indirect taxes plus the shameful cost of the party of autonomy. [[Applauds]] A milleurist is a dosmilleurist harassed by the state. And as long as the reform penalizes the private sector, the Ministry of Labour, as the rule is already in force, it is allowed to hire temporary workers, in particular a thousand, in an agency that directly depends on you, Minister, as is SEPE. You can't lie to everyone all the time. We are in a society of deceived young people, without jobs, and with our forgotten older ones, who are forced to operate with financial institutions and hire bank cards and cannot even count on the smile of the cashier when they go to the bank, for greater glory of digitizations and international agendas. It's those little things that don't kill time or absence. This government is a farce; they do not care about the workers, what they care about are the privileges of the trade unions, which have not represented the workers for a long time. Therefore, the lesser evil is not admissible when there is a possible good. The State must be strong, but small, austere, effective and agile. [[Applauds]] In short, in the face of a reform that reinforces confrontation through class unions, we propose to sow solidarity; in the face of a reform that hinders employment, we propose to sow recruitment facilities; in the face of continuous State intervention, to sow subsidiarity and private initiative; in the spirit of prohibition, to sow responsibility; in the face of the constant threat of sanction, to sow advice and help; in the face of unnecessary bureaucracy, to sow simplicity of processing; in the face of arbitrary imposition, to sow legal certainty; in the face of State abuse, to sow the rule of law; in the face of Agenda 2030, to sow Agenda Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the way to grow without fear, live in peace and face tomorrow with optimism. The flag is high and it's not a game, it's a movement and it's called VOX. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Thank you!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u92	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2022, OF 18 JANUARY, AMENDING LAW 9/2012, OF 14 NOVEMBER, OF RESTRUCTURING AND RESOLVING CREDIT ENTITIES; THE LAW 11/2015, OF 18 JUNE, OF RECOVERY AND RESOLUTION OF CREDIT ENTITIES AND INVESTMENT SERVICES ENTERPRISES; AND THE REAL DECRETO 1559/2012, OF 15 NOVEMBER, ESTABLISHING THE LEGAL REGIME OF THE ASSEMBLY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY, IN RELATION TO THE LEGAL REGIME OF THE ASSEMBLY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY PROCEEDING FROM BANK RESTRUCTURATION. [[File number 130/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u93	We turn to the following point: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 1/2022 of 18 January, amending Act No. 9/2012 of 14 November 2012 on the restructuring and resolution of credit institutions; Act No. 11/2015 of 18 June 2015 on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies; and Royal Decree No. 1559/2012 of 15 November 2012 establishing the legal regime of asset management companies, in relation to the legal regime of the Bank Restructuring Asset Management Company. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u94	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear today to defend the validation of Royal Decree-Law 1/2022 of 18 January, amending three rules, Law 9/2012 of 14 November, on restructuring and resolution of credit institutions; Law 11/2015 of 18 June, on recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies; and Royal Decree 1559/2012 of 15 November, establishing the legal regime of asset management companies in relation to the legal regime of the Asset Management Society of Banking Restructuring, Sareb. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u95	Excuse me, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u96	Thank you. This royal decree-law modifies these three rules, with the aim of updating the legal regime and governance of the Sareb after its accounting reclassification within the public sector since the end of 2020, due to a change in statistical consideration imposed by Eurostat. In other words, it is a question of adapting Sareb's management to its current economic reality. This is a very different royal decree-law from what has just been discussed here in this House, which was looking to the future. It's also a very different royal decree-law than I've submitted to validation before. It is not a question of responding to the pandemic, it is not a question of setting up measures to support businesses or of creating a safety net for people, nor of adopting such important labour reform for our country. This is not an issue where there has been room for decision or alternative. This is one of the last collections of the response that in its day was given to the financial crisis started in 2008 - which has been mentioned repeatedly here this morning - and that led in 2012 to the creation of the asset management entity from the balance sheets of financial institutions, which, finally, has resulted in an increase in the public debt accounted for by almost 35 billion euros and the public deficit of almost 10 billion euros last year. In view of this reality, it is clear that we cannot continue to leave control of the Sareb in the hands of private shareholders. I insist that this government has had no room for manoeuvre in this matter, the sole consequence of the decisions taken in 2012 and 2013 and the imposition by Eurostat of the accounting reclassification of Sareb on the perimeter of public administrations. I'm going to detail some of the most relevant background to then finalize the measures taken by this royal decree-law. To talk about the Sareb we have to remember its origin and go back to the financial crisis. The excessive exposure of the Spanish financial sector to construction and real estate promotion ultimately affected the solvency of a group of banking entities in our country, and in that context in 2012 the Government - then of the People's Party - requested financial assistance from the European institutions on the basis of a memorandum of understanding that included the creation of an asset management and settlement entity. Sareb received from nine entities, between December 2012 and February 2013, a package of nearly 200,000 problematic assets, including loans and real estate. These were loans of very dubious collection as well as properties of heterogeneous quality, their irregular state of determination and located in different geographical areas. These assets are valued at almost EUR 51 billion. In exchange for these impaired assets, the transmitting entities received bonds endorsed by the State. The aim of Sareb, therefore, was to manage and sell such assets in order to obtain the necessary funds to amortize the bonds with which it paid to the entities that rescued them. The deadline for doing so was 2027. At the time of its creation, according to Eurostat and taking into account the characteristics of the Sareb and European accounting regulations, it was classified as a private financial institution, not controlled by public administrations, which determined that it was not consolidated in the public accounts. Since then, in the European Union, similar entities from other Member States - which had also initially been classified outside the public administration sector - have been progressively included in the public sector. In this situation, Eurostat required the National Statistical Institute to reclassify Sareb into the national accounts as a unit belonging to the general government sector within the central government subsector. The reclassification of the Sareb therefore had an impact on the public deficit and public debt with effect from 2020. From that moment on, Sareb's debt computes as the State's debt. However, it is very important to note that this is not an additional debt issued by the Treasury, but an accounted contingent liability whose final impact will depend on the future evolution of the company, on its management from now on. At this point, I also think it is important to note that, while assuming the three points of GDP corresponding to this accounting change, thanks to economic growth, good economic management, in particular of the Treasury, and transfers of European funds during 2021, we have been able to maintain a strong investment effort in our country, respond to the pandemic effectively in health, economic and social terms, and the public debt-to-GDP ratio has already begun to decline, thus exceeding our fiscal targets. Although the final data on the government debt-to-GDP ratio for the year 2021 will be known in the coming weeks, we can confidently say that the year closed below the target of 119.5 % of GDP. Perhaps the word that best synthesizes our management in this matter is responsibility; responsibility to respond to the heritages of the past, to manage the present and to try to channel the future in the best possible way. We are faced with a new economic and accounting reality that up to this royal decree-law had not been reflected in the governance of the entity. There is still a shareholder structure in which the State has a minority participation, i.e. that management decisions are taken on a board of directors in which the State does not have control, and this situation is what we want to put an end to this real decree-law. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow decisions that affect our public accounts, our public debt, to be taken by people who do not represent the public interest. In addition to making it possible for the State to exercise effective control over the management of the Sareb, we must also provide this company with a regime that will allow it the necessary flexibility to achieve its objectives of liquidating the assets transferred to it. To this end, the royal decree-law submitted to its validation today, first of all, eliminates the limits to the participation of the State in the shareholders' office of Sareb. The seventh additional provision of Act No. 9/2012 of 14 November 2012 limited the State's participation in the capital of Sareb to 50% through the Bank's Ordained Restructuring Fund (FROB). Currently, this participation is almost 46%, with the rest being private participation through banks, insurers and other entities. After the change adopted by the Royal Decree-Law, the limits to the participation of the State in the shareholders' office of Sareb are removed, thus allowing a possible increase in its weight in the capital of this company, with the aim of enabling the State to exercise effective control over the management of the entity. The conditions under which FROB must take the decision on the purchase of Sareb shares, which must be submitted to a prior report of the General Intervention of the State Administration, will assess both the compliance with the procedures and the reasonableness of the proposed price. Secondly, wage limitations are established. So far, Sareb was a private entity and was not subject to public sector wage constraints, so the remuneration of staff was in line with the prevailing remuneration in its sector of activity from its staff: banking, funds, real estate. Given the consolidation in the public sector, it is considered ethically and professionally appropriate that the remuneration of managers be in line with those of the public sector. The Sareb shall be subject to the pay scheme for public sector workers and, in particular, to the pay scheme applicable to managers of the public business sector for those to whom it applies. This scheme establishes a standard salary structure and maximum remuneration according to the classification of the company which is regularly updated. Compensation shall also be limited in the event of dismissal. Of course, as far as members of the board of directors are concerned, they will necessarily be persons with recognized professional honourability, who have adequate knowledge and experience to carry out their duties. These requirements of honourability and experience shall also apply to the general or assimilated directors of the institution. It cannot be otherwise, given the ethical and professional due diligence requirements that are required for the exercise of professions in the field of public administration, as provided for in the general rules applicable to the public sector, the rules governing the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State. In addition, the Banco de España will monitor the criteria of commercial and professional honourability of the Sareb advisors. Thirdly, the legal and supervisory regime of the Sareb is adapted. In view of the special nature of the subject matter of the Sareb and the fact that it is a company with a limited duration of 2027, it will not acquire the status of a State trading company and will remain subject to private law. However, Sareb shall be subject to the relevant procurement regime in accordance with the Public Sector Contracts Act. In addition, a technical change is taking place, exempting Sareb from the application of Article 327 of the consolidated version of the Capital Companies Act, which provides for the compulsory reduction of a company's capital when the accounting losses have decreased its net assets below two thirds of the share capital figure and would have occurred a social exercise without the recovery of its net assets. This treatment complements that already approved by Royal Decree-Law 6/2020 of 10 March, thus ensuring a high level of legal certainty. Moreover, the current supervision and sanction regime attributed to the Banco de España is maintained and external control is left to the Court of Auditors. In order to avoid conflicts of interest that could arise from the participation of Sareb's supervisors in the strategy and management of this company, the FROB's Steering Committee, in its small composition, is entrusted with taking decisions affecting the management of its portfolio of holdings, shares, securities and other instruments. Finally, this royal decree-law introduces the principle of sustainability in the disposal of assets. The Sareb's role in housing must be realized respecting the unique objective of this society, which is to optimize the value of its assets and maximize the resources obtained to amortize its debt, thus minimizing the final impact on Spanish taxpayers. However, this value optimization should not only take place in economic terms, the social aspect being also essential. Therefore, another important change that is introduced through this royal decree-law is aimed at giving coverage to Sareb's action in this area, enabling the possibility of disposal of assets in line with the general principle of sustainability. In this way, it introduces the possibility for Sareb, in coordination with the Government, to develop strategies for the transfer of real estate to public or non-profit entities where the weighting of their social utility is particularly relevant. Indeed, since we arrived at the Government we have promoted this social aspect of the Sareb. In 2019, Sareb closed for the first time the sale to a public administration of housing for social purposes, sales that increased significantly in 2020. In addition, agreements have been facilitated with municipalities and autonomous communities in order to take advantage of the buildings for social housing policy. In 2020, Sareb expanded its social housing stock from 4000 to 10,000 units and in 2021 signed an agreement with the Ministries of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda and Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, extending the number of buildings destined for social housing to 15,000. This work must, of course, continue in the future, thus maximizing the value of Sareb's assets from an economic, financial and social point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, you will share with me that the measures included in the Royal Decree-Law, by their nature and purpose, will allow the updating of the legal regime of the Sareb and an update of its governance to address an already existing economic reality: the impact on the public deficit and public debt, with effect from the end of 2020, resulting from the reclassification of the Sareb into national accounts by Eurostat. This is a problem that we drag away from the management that was made of the financial crisis and, at this point, the objective of this royal decree-law is to give the State the tools to manage what is already its own. We must have these tools and focus on using them well, defending the general interest, so I am counting on you all to see the importance of the vote that we face this morning and to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, which, as I said in my introduction, is radically opposed to what I hope will be validated today and which has been debated this morning in Parliament. I was thinking, ladies and gentlemen, about how different the exit from this unprecedented crisis caused by the pandemic is, how different our Government's response has been, how different the European response has been, how different the prospects of all citizens in contrast to that financial crisis whose last collections we are still addressing with the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u97	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs. I will support the validation of the royal decree-law that you have just presented to us and that only in this 14th Legislature is progressing fast towards the hundred of regulations to which the Government applies a procedure that should be exceptional but that with the Executive of Pedro Sánchez has already become a routine thing. In 2012, as then senator, I intervened in the urgent handling of the draft law on restructuring and resolution of credit institutions, which was the result of the reform process that, as you have recalled, was overseen by the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. Being critical with the then incipient government of Mariano Rajoy, there was no other emergency left to face that catastrophic economic legacy produced by socialist management. Ladies and gentlemen, I then tried to amend some of the plans of the Bank Restructuring Asset Management Company, also known as the bad bank, alerting about the transfer of those toxic assets resulting from the explosion of the real estate bubble and the unusual crisis, the only formula for banks to be able to dispose of the flood of real estate assets and failed loans after revealing the red numbers accumulated in previous years and hidden irresponsibly by the supervisors. Some of us do not forget - I think it is appropriate to remember now - that the savings of millions of Spanish families were in danger because of the failure of the system. Tens of thousands of jobs in the banking sector were also at risk. Here, in Congress, a commission of inquiry was subsequently set up on the crisis of the banking system which had eloquent conclusions, but still today the consequences of the disastrous management of the government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, which, as you will not forget, culminated in the express reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which Forum Asturias, by the way, voted against. Now, given the insufficient repayment of Sareb's debt, the bad bank, is necessary, the updating measures envisaged in this rule, explained by Mrs Calviño, are essential, and hence I will vote in favour of validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u100	President, minister, today we are living a new chapter in a recurring history, that of capitalism which privatizes profits and socializes losses, the history of the capitalists who call themselves liberals and who do not want the state to intervene, for example, to raise taxes, but do want it to intervene to buy their debts when they need it. And within this story, the case of banks is the most scandalous in the Spanish state: on the one hand, the privatization of profits. Let us not forget that since they were rescued in 2008 they have continued to amass benefits. Between 2008 and 2018, approximately EUR 100 billion of profit is estimated for banking entities, which have been distributed among shareholders and the salaries of managers, because in other matters they have not invested them, have thrown staff into the street and have closed offices and, therefore, there is now an incipient movement that complains precisely about this, that banking entities are not taking care of customer care. For that, these profits were devoted to profit, shareholders and managers. Privatization of these benefits, but socialization of the losses, because when they fell with the explosion of the bubble and the crisis of 2008, the public authorities, according to the troika, carried out their direct rescue with a figure that was 60 billion euros at that time, which has then been increasing and that some specialists estimate that it would be about 80 billion euros what we have ended up contributing to the bank rescue. And there were even more maneuvers, because they were gifted, they were given the savings boxes and there is a bestial banking concentration in the Spanish state, and also what brings us today, the creation of the bad bank to absorb toxic assets and even derived maneuvers, such as turning the state into a guarantor of the bonds of that bad bank, which were garbage bonds, but, of course, with the state's endorsement they ceased to be. All this scam - which has no other name - that is to spend public money to save the business of private banking, was obviously made with the blessing of the European Union and even has a prize, because the principal responsible, Mr Luis de Guindos, is today vice president of the European Central Bank. But today who is in the government is not De Guindos, nor is the PP, yet what they bring us has a certain continuity with his work, which is to buy the rest of the shares of the bad bank, to keep it and thereby assume its debt, about 35 billion euros, that will increase the public debt of the Spanish state. By the way, this generosity that is held from the institutions with the debt of the banks is not the one that was held with the debt of the families, to which the evictions were applied for unpaid mortgage. So, now we have a public bank, but only half public, because public will be their debts, but what about their assets? This is the speech that we wanted to give and, consequently, abstain in the vote, because the assets of the public bank must pass, cede indefinitely to the social housing policies of autonomous communities and municipalities, because, if not, before what we are today is a very bad business, to stay only with the debt. They are left with the assets and must put them at the service of social housing policies indefinitely. Only in this way could it make any sense what is approved today.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u102	President, ladies and gentlemen, I've moved on. We again have to discuss a real decree like the one that was denounced one or two days ago - I don't remember exactly anymore -. It's those royal decrees that include seemingly different things and then you don't know if you have to grab some of them because it may seem good to you or you have to look at it that it doesn't look good to you. Because it is true that this decree speaks of the Sareb - it is what has occupied much of the intervention - but it is no less true that it also speaks of a technical correction of the Statute of the Workers. Well, it looks like it's not that hard. We are pleased, that is, that we are already going to follow through the reforms of the Workers' Statute for all that we have said in the previous debate that remains to be done. And then there is another question that has to do with the tensioned tourist areas, which is also another element that appears there and that in principle one could not be in great disagreement either, beyond the fact that the Basque Autonomous Community has a logic of making commercial hours available to the Spanish State workers, so that they do not have to work so many Sundays, I mean. But there is one thing that draws attention to in this particular case, and then I will focus on the Sareb. They plan that municipalities in these tense tourist areas have the ability to point out, depending on the adaptation that they propose, whether or not it is a tense tourist area and, therefore, enable more commercial schedules, and have time for them to determine which areas they need to have, say, that commercial time flexibility, but they put a six-month cut-off. That is, if they do not do so within six months, the State will decide for them and declare that everything is a tense tourist area. Well, if you think you're going to do it and you think you should do it - and we also think you should do it, let the autonomy and the localities do it - let's leave them, let's not put any time limit on them and let them do it, that we will already take care of others and others that business hours do not go beyond the right to rest of the workers. [[Rumors]] But by focusing on the star theme of this royal decree - because the others are added - and by focusing on the Sareb, I want to point out that in the end this is the end of a sad journey for the Spanish State. We are thinking that among all of us we swallow the toad of this agonistic walk and of this waste that has meant for the public arks to have to sustain the greed and greed of a few, which are those who decided to make savings boxes little less than platforms or startups - which is now said to be more in boga - for their own personal profit. And this is a frog and I don't think it's honest to say it tastes good, there's no frog that knows good. You said that the word that can define this, what the Spanish State is going to do, is responsibility. Well, there's a part of that argument I can buy, it's true. It is responsible to take charge of debts, even if they are not yours. There are also those who might say that the word that defines this with the State is pagan, because in reality what we are proposing here is that all that they have done remains in nothing or remains in a certain situation of selective amnesia so that from now on we move forward. You've been quoted before, and I totally agree. This is the clearest example of socializing losses and privatizing profits. It is a clear example of how responsibility has not come to those who took EUR 60.6 billion and have not returned them. I believe that the state, the different governments that have been in the state all along this way, would have to do some thinking about whether they have done everything possible to recover the EUR 60.6 billion, because if they have done so it has been insufficient, but if they have not done so it would be negligent. And if they had done nothing, we would have to infer that what was ultimately proposed was that we could not touch in any way those who had decided that they should be rescued from their shipwreck with 60,600 million euros. It has also been pointed out that what is now being proposed here is to recover the 35 billion of debt, to make it their own, and this would add or increase the amount I have indicated before the 60,600. All this in a context like the current one, where we see how the profits of the bank have continued to fire. It doesn't look like the Spanish banking sector is going through low hours, it doesn't. It is true that it is firing thousands of workers, but it is certainly doing so to increase its business profits, not because its turnover goes wrong. If one sees the data, with the profits that Santander has thrown in the year 2021, 8124 million euros; BBVA, 4321 million euros; CaixaBank, 5226 million euros, and Bankinter, 1333 million euros, it seems that one cannot say that one has to be sorry for them. Precisely because they have been using the Sareb all this time to do business, and you know it as well as I do. In fact, there are open disputes by the Sareb against CaixaBank and against four banking entities that I have cited on this list of banking entities with huge profits because now they do not want to take over the negative debts. They ask us to give a folder to this bottomless hole and we cannot look elsewhere and say that 'for peace, a Hail Mary', which I would say - I suppose - a Catholic, I don't know if I'm very wrong about this. It seems to us that we must denounce it and that we cannot give our support to this reality, because not only were they rescued, but they also decided not to return any of what they did. However, in Germany and France they have recovered the money. I think we could look a little bit at Germany and France to know what they have done to recover all that money - in the Spanish state, 60.6 billion; in Germany and France, whatever amounts it is - and then, then, yes, take over the assets. To go on finalizing, as far as the specifics it proposes, apart from the assumption of a greater share of capital until being majority, even if it remains a private or private entity, you propose the social use or assignment of housing to public entities. We do not disagree with that - with that in particular - but it seems to us very little that is required for the enormous sacrifice that the Spanish State is going to assume to see its debt increased in that capital. We would like, for example, to ensure that in the properties that belong to the Sareb and that it incorporates or makes its own the State, as long as it becomes a majority partner of it, there is no eviction. It could be done and we would like it to be done. We would also like to say that these dwellings are going to be used for public social rental in at least 60% of the total assets and, in addition, establishing special reserves or clauses for people under 35 years of age. Perhaps this would also help to solve people's difficulties in accessing housing, and we would do so with public resources. Also - and I conclude now - measures could be included, in the tax reform that the Government is going to propose, for the progressive return of amounts of bank bail-out owed by profit-bearing banks, that is, that we should not give up recovering that money, as it seems that Germany and France did not do and managed to recover. That is why I pointed out that we cannot vote affirmatively on this, because it would be as much as asking us to close our eyes to a management, from our point of view, disastrous in what has to do with the difficulty of recovering the money that we have had to put among all of us so that they can come out more or less of rosettes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Mrs. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea addresses the rostrum]] Does the Basque Group want to intervene? [[Consent]] I don't know, but, if you want, of course. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u104	I'm not very fond of talking too much, fast yes, but good. Good morning. Today we discuss the royal decree-law to allow the state, through the FROB, to acquire a majority stake in the social capital of the Sareb and to have control of the entity. It is an inheritance, of course, to which anyone would like to renounce, because it is the story of a misconception. A decree that, as you have rightly said, unfortunately looks to the past, to that past that we do not want to remember for the conditions and consequences it had. A decision is taken, as the Vice-President said, following the decision of Eurostat, which has forced the deficit to be accounted for by the purchase of toxic assets after the famous bank restructuring. An amount that was endorsed exclusively by the State without the latter having a majority stake, so that these amounts contributed will not be counted as a deficit. An operation that told us, as has been said here, that it was not going to cost money, because the plan was to sell all those assets and above get a profit, they said, between 13 and 15%. What was not going to cost a euro to the taxpayer has resulted in a ruinous society with the state's endorsement. One thing is that toxic assets should be removed from the balance sheet and something else, perhaps, the way it was done by the authorities. This plan, that of the Sareb, has failed dramatically; an entity that has recorded losses in all its exercises and that, despite this, even came to pass regulations that have prevented its dissolution and that could continue to function. A mismanagement that we can say has consisted of a kick forward waiting for a future solution; the future has arrived and now all responsibility will fall on the public coffers. It is up to the Government to manage this inherited backpack, which once again entails a socialization of losses to the citizenry and which, nevertheless and paradoxically, the banks will also maintain tax credits, so that these losses they have had during these years will be accounted for in the coming years in order to certainly diminish their accounting profit and thus reduce corporate tax. But regardless of what has happened, the fact is that it now makes no sense for the State to be a minority shareholder and not to have control of a bank or a company with a negative net worth when it has to account for that debt as a public debt. We therefore believe it is appropriate, from the point of view of public accounting, that the Government should assume ownership, along with the burdens borne by that Sareb. But also, Vice-President, we are going to ask you for transparency, because until now, the truth is that it has not been very clear; that at least you are going to explain and detail that strategy that you are going to follow to carry out a management, of course, professional and efficient of the Sareb and try, at least, to recover some of the lost, and that you are also going to explain to us what it obeys and what that social value implies as an optimisation factor that appears in the decree, why efficient management and social value I believe that they should not be confronted if what it is about to help those most disadvantaged sectors or groups. Finally, it must also be said that we have a decree which contains other provisions which do not have to do with this and incorporates, see, two amendments to a decree which has not yet been validated, that of labour reform. It is a legislative technique which we, of course, do not like and which we thought we had to denounce here today. Having said that, we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u106	Thank you, President. Well, it's time to eat, this topic is very technical and it doesn't arouse many passions, and less so after the heated debate we had this morning with labor reform, so I'm going to try to arouse interest. I ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember when Mr. De Guindos said that the bank bailout was not going to cost the Spaniards anything? Do you remember? For it was a lie, because the public cost not yet recovered by the bank bailout amounts to 80 billion euros; 45 billion of the FROB and 35 billion of the Sareb. In order for you to get an idea of the magnitude of the failure, the important European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism to transform our economy, that deeply lost part that we do not have to return and that is called grants, is only 70 billion euros, those that, as I said, we do not have to return. It is desolating that today, in the year 2022, ten years after its creation and going through the crisis resulting from the pandemic, we have to be debating this decree, which is, let us say - and so I understand and my parliamentary group understands - a bad news. It's bad news for our economy, it's bad news for citizens and, ultimately, it's bad news for our country, because when you have a sense of state, it hurts your country to go wrong. We liberals are not that opposition that seeing how this government can do the worst and can do policies that can lead to the sinking of the country caressing a kitten and laughing like the villain Dr. Gang. No, we are responsible and we have demonstrated it today. But since we are talking about the popular, I remind you that this disaster in the Sareb, that bad bank we are debating today, is because of its irresponsibility. Turns out his supposed economic miracle had mud feet. I would like to remind you that the architect of creating the Sareb, as has already been said here, so that the banks could clean up their accounts and park toxic real estate credits, was the government of Mariano Rajoy in 2012 and that Mr De Guindos was the father of that black hole to which more than EUR 50 billion was thrown and which was baptized as the bad bank; a bad bank composed of about 200 000 problematic assets, of which 80% were loaned to the promoter and 20% real estate. According to De Guindos' predictions, this bad bank, the Sareb, would have benefits in the second half of its life through the disposal of those toxic assets. Well, we have all unfortunately seen what the reality is, the Sareb has not only not presented benefits in any of its ten years of life, but also today it is in technical bankruptcy and it is the State and it is the Spaniards who are finally forced to take control of it. That is, that - I open quotes - 'I believe the bank that will pay the bank itself', which Mariano Rajoy said, through that accounting bullshit that had as its sole objective to conceal what was clearly a rescue country of Spain, was a chronicle of an announced death. A piece of accounting that today Eurostat leaves in evidence and that has entailed the increase of the public debt in 2020 by 35 billion euros and of 10 billion euros in our deficit; speaking in silver, ladies and gentlemen, a cost of 1700 euros per Spanish. And of course, to see your popular lordships boast of being good managers, when the only management that is good for them is to burst governments and buy transfugas, for it is to applaud. [[Applauds]] The failure of the Marianist Government's approach is public and notorious, yes, but that does not mean that we should hold the present Socialist Government responsible, Vice-President, because you Socialists have been in the Government for three years, so the excuse is that it is for the inheritance received because it no longer hangs. Honestly, Madam First Vice-President, in my parliamentary group we hope and hope that you will have an acceptable and useful action plan for the Sareb, because, since we are all paying for this party, it would be unacceptable for the Socialist Party, taking advantage now that the government is going to have or take full control of society, to use it as an agency for the placement of its friends. It would only be necessary for a ruinous business of the People's Party to serve now to pay favors to the Socialist Party. Let's hope not and let's hope so. We will support the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, on this subject, unfortunately, everything that the BNG has been denouncing since the creation of the Sareb has been confirmed, so we voted against it in its day. All the actions that were carried out by the PP government following the 2008 crisis, acquisition of assets, injection of liquidity via FROB, creation of the Sareb, etc., were in the same direction, rescue the bank, which worked scandalously for decades, and socialize its losses among the population as a whole. A scandalous example in Galicia is that of Abanca, before Nova Caixa Galicia, rescue of 9 billion euros and release of toxic assets for the Sareb, sale for 1 billion euros and more than 1 billion euros profit only in the first year in which it was privatized. Now, the Sareb makes the already abounding Spanish public debt considerably fatten. When black men again demand cuts because debt and deficit are excessive, remember where a debt like today comes from. It is not that the working class lives above its possibilities, as so many times we were told, but because the Spanish oligarchy never loses. When he wins, he gets everything. When he loses, we pay for cleavage. This obscene debate, moreover, if we contextualize it precisely at a time when the rescued bank closes branches, leaves whole municipalities without service, no staff in favor of electronic banking, which excludes our largest and most vulnerable population from passage, charges scandalous commissions, etc. We therefore reaffirm the need for public intervention in the banking system, but not only to get the chestnuts out of the fire to bankers when they are badly given. Public banking as an essential instrument for credit to SMEs and families and a non-speculative policy, Galician public banking to support the economic and social development of our country. That is why, in spite of everything, we prefer that the Sareb remain under public control, among other things because that should allow for greater transparency - an issue that so far has not existed - and, moreover, to open the door to different policies. For example, in Galicia there are 2735 homes owned by the Sareb. We demand that it be made immediately available to the Xunta de Galicia and the councils in order to strengthen public housing policy, so that it can be used as social housing. We believe that this is the least that can and should be done. We will therefore abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u110	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law. I think you have exposed it with simplicity but with clarity. There's little alternative right now. And in politics it is always very relevant, before positioning yourself in favor of or against any proposal, to study the alternatives, because one may be against a proposal, but if all the alternatives are worse, one will have to choose. And that I recommend, I did it every time I was mayor, and I do it often as a congressman. With regard to the content, it is obvious that at the moment the Sareb must be controlled exclusively by the Government and the public sector, which at the end of the day has put the resources. We only ask that the Sareb Intensify all this space of collaboration with the territorial public administrations, the autonomous communities and, especially, the municipalities because, now that it has a hundred percent public control by the Government, some of the assets that appear in the Sareb and that are surely still greatly overvalued in relation to the possibilities, can be fixed with the corresponding compensations in the hands of the municipalities and autonomous communities, that they will surely be able to give it this social profitability that is necessary. And, also, a reflection to finish. We arrived here because in 2012 the Sareb was formed. Indeed, we arrived here because in 2012 the Sareb was constituted, but we do not stay here because, how did we get to 2012? One also has to learn from history, and I give you a reflection: evaluate, look at the origin and composition of those nine entities for which the FROB had to go out to the rescue and look at the boards of directors, and look at how the policies of these entities were set. I say this not for today, but on other occasions, when certain political forces with some joy demand a public bank or public financial institutions, they know that they are no guarantee that things will be done better than in the private sphere, and this could also be an example. In any case, we will support and vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u112	Good morning, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, esteemed stenographer, dear Diario de Sesiones - two points -: today we attend a new episode of a series that could well be called, as a premonition, 'Bank rescue will not cost the taxpayer a euro', premiered there for 2012, with the government of Mariano Rajoy, Luis de Guindos in possession of the portfolio of Economy and Competitiveness. Does that sound like you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP? I am curious and somewhat confused by Parliament as to who in the PP will have this item on the agenda hung up on, as I will not be able to attend because I have a commitment to a union. I'll make a quick chronology of the facts. The financial crisis leads to an ambitious intervention by the State to recover the bank and the financial system. Financial redemption bill: EUR 64 billion. The Sareb is created, popularly known as the bad bank, to concentrate all the toxic assets that the banks and savings banks accumulated, and thus to heal their balances, unrepaired action to save the powerful. But, of course, they're systemic, you have to save them, if not, everything falls. Parenthesis: Was it done with the same diligence to save citizens from the poverty caused by the financial collapse? Well, no, and it's not spoiler. No, repeat thousands of evicted. Let's keep going. Sareb was made up of funds provided by the State by 45 % and the rest by financial institutions. It therefore had a private nature and was outside the scope of the public accounts. The idea behind this operation was to sell these assets to return the investment. Obama did it and European civilized governments did it; they recovered the silver. According to the then minister De Guindos, a round operation, since it was a process without losses neither for the entities nor for the Sareb. For the Sareb it wasn't. There we can also find strange cases of rotating doors and, moreover, surely also a person of recognized honorability and professional experience, Mrs. Belén Romana, do you remember? It cost us - it's a way to say - 3 billion, a very curious swap. Madam Vice President, raise your right hand and tell me there won't be a PSOE Roman Bethlehem that ends at Santander Bank. [[Applauds]] From here, there are still years of opaque information, of more shadows than you can see in the management of the entity, even the Banco de España itself has issued reports in which it questions the processes of purchases and approvals of executions, decisions and sales of real estate assets. New season: March 2021, Eurostat, a European statistical agency, obliges the government to assume as state debt the €35 billion remaining in the company's liabilities. I mean, it doesn't come out of you, it's Eurostat. Bonus track: this also means an increase of €9 billion in deficit, with which it is falling! Faced with this obligation, and because they no longer have any remedy, the Government brings us, through this royal decree-law, the modifications to take control of the Sareb. Literally, according to the ministry of Vice President Calviño: to modify its legal regime to adapt society to the current situation. The question that many of us have asked ourselves is: What is the use of the Sareb? In the face of the serious housing crisis of recent years, in the face of the unsustainable increase in rents, from Esquerra Republicana we have claimed the great opportunity lost during all these years by not including any obligation in the Sareb that obliges the transfer of housing to allocate it to social rent and thus create a necessary social housing park. You make very little concrete in your royal decree-law. Corolario: What less than assuming control of the commodity when we have already eaten among all the losses in the amount of - let's put - 35 billion, more than double the annual fiscal deficit of Catalonia. I've got that coin unit. For all this, we demand a stake in a public housing park, where social criteria are prioritized above market criteria. Given the origin of the financial crisis and its dire consequences on society, many of them related to housing, we demand social return through the use of all those real estate assets derived from bank bailout. We cannot allow it to remain a clear example of privatization of profits and socialization of losses. In short, we will abstain and ask for it to be treated as a bill. I've called before. My spokesman has already told you: So, not with Esquerra, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u114	Dear President, dear Vice President, colleagues: from those dusts, these muds. Today it is up to us to recompose the broken crockery of all that party of so many years in which there was a massive use of public instruments against the general interest, in favor of the particular interest, and against the mandates of the Constitution. In this we have a different diagnosis: there is one sector of this Parliament that believes that what happened in 2008 was a crisis, and there are other people, other groups, that we believe was not a crisis, but a scam. That is precisely why we mobilized politically, and that is why some of us are not in the work we were doing until then, because we believed that we had to take a step forward in policy in order to try to fix the disguised act that was being committed in this country with so many years of public policy against the general interest, in favour of particular interests and against the mandates of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] He's been a real mess for years. Because that crisis was not a vulgar crisis, because something strange happened with Lehman Brothers and subprime mortgages, but it was the consequence of the deregulation of the credit system, which after the United States came to Spain and in Spain multiplied by interacting with the real estate bubble, a real estate bubble that had not only been stopped, but had been strongly driven by the public policies of the governments. It had been driven on the basis of'more brick, which can still grow the bubble', until it burst and brought all the pain, all the suffering and all the disaster it brought. That is the reality, and it is the reality that today we have to try to start recomposing, all that disaster that happened, because all the public policies that were implemented were public policies against the general interest and in favor of particular interests, of illegitimate interests, because it is not illegitimate for a particular individual to use his or her home as a business, but it is legitimate for the public authorities to use the home as a business or allow it to be used as a business. The public authorities have other obligations in this area, and we, as we have not come here alone to protest and we understand that politics must move from protest to proposal, Mrs Calviño, we are going to make you a proposal. What do you have to do with the Sareb? It's very simple, you don't have to think much, you don't have to think about how to make this happen or what we can do with those assets, you have to think a little bit. Basically, what needs to be done is to grab this little book, read its article 47 and execute it. [[shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] What does Article 47 have? Three explicit mandates, three mandates that have been rejected, three mandates against them have been made policies: guaranteeing the right to decent housing, ensuring that soil policy is used in a way that prevents speculation and ensuring that the gains generated by urban policy by public authorities revert to the community. And that is not what we can tell you, we do not need ideas; you, Mrs Calviño, let us leave so many years of particular interests, let us leave so many years of anomalous use of public instruments and let us stick to the constitutional mandate and prioritise the general interest on the particular interest. [[applause]] How do these three mandates, which we have to ensure access to decent housing for citizens, to ensure that anti-speculation land policies are made, and to ensure that the surplus value of urban planning by the public authorities reverts to the community? How do we do it? It's very simple, this country doesn't have just a public park of housing. This is regrettable, it is in what we are farthest from Europe, and in what is farthest, farthest. We are also on employment issues and on other issues that we are trying to recompose after so many years of disguise. This very morning we tried to recompose a little of all the disguised things that brought us; now we can also recompose it in this matter, controlling the credit system, but in the area of housing, in particular, dedicating the assets that are housing to guarantee the right to housing of article 47. And that is guaranteed by creating a public housing park that is minimally close - it is still going to be very far - to what France, Germany or any European country have, because we are in the antipodes, we do not have 10% of the housing park that others have and we need a housing park. And how does that have to be done? How does it have to be managed? It must be managed in accordance with what the Constitution says again, taking into account those who are competent in this area. And who are competent in urban matters? The Autonomous Communities and the municipalities. The Vice President of the Valencian Generalitat is telling you, Mr. Héctor Illueca is telling you. We have a public instrument that has cost us a barbarity, which we have paid for at a cost; please, let this be done by using it with the idea of profit, business or to compensate for particular interests. This has to go to the general interest, it has to go to the fulfilment of constitutional mandates and it has to revert to public housing park, and not because we create it, but because it is required by the constitutional norm, and that public housing park has to be managed by those whom it declares competent that same constitutional text. [[applause]] As you can see, our proposal is very simple, to start applying article 47 of the Constitution at once - which is too many decades gone by without doing so. That's all right. We guarantee the right to housing, we guarantee that it does not speculate with the soil and we guarantee that the gains of urban action revert to the community. We create a housing park and involve the autonomous communities and municipalities in the management of that housing. And what does the state government have to do? For, quite clearly, to generate sufficient caution so that, in that participation, certain autonomous communities that we know are always going to put particular interests before the general interest cannot do so in the management of that housing. We believe that the necessary precautions should be taken to ensure that the assets of the Sareb are devoted to the objectives imposed on them by the Constitution, with the powers distributed by the Constitution and with the guarantees that they will always be used in the interests of the general interest and that citizens can live in decent housing, which is what is required of us by the text of the Constitution. Comply. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u115	Thank you, Mr. Uriarte. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u116	Thank you so much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Madam First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Economy. We came to discuss the validation of Royal Decree 1/2022, which, by its title, should simply reform some aspects of Sareb and FROB. In fact, it is the only thing the minister has told us about, which has forgotten that not only Law 9/2012, Law 11/2015 and Royal Decree 1559/2012 are being amended, but also the Royal Decree-Law 32/2021, which we were validating this morning, and Law 1/2004 are being amended. It is to say, apart from the reforms on the Sareb and the FROB, a series of minor reforms are made, in this usual technique to which we are accustomed by the Government: the commercial hours of the areas of great tourist influx, the Statute of the Workers and the regime of the workers in the service of the public sector are touched. This legislative technique with the House and the citizenry generates a kind of tragala like that to which we attended before yesterday: if you vote against the obligation to use masks, you are voting against the updating of pensions by correction of the deviation. So we might as well sing, minister, as in Mary Poppins, that of: 'With a little sugar that pill they give you, the pill they give you, it will go better, if there is a little...'. [[continues his intervention singing]] [[Applauds]] You, who already know her, can continue her. But I am going to focus on the two main points, which are the reform of the FROB and the Sareb, apart from the doubts that generate us the definition that make of the participations of the FROB as outside the heritage of the public administrations. This does not concern the left, that the participations of the FROB are outside the heritage of the public administrations - it is true that it is when it is done within a process of resolution - but we are concerned; we are especially concerned because the participation of the FROB in La Caixa through BCA has not been acquired in a process of resolution, but by exchange. What are we worried about? We are concerned about the two major points I am going to deal with, which are the taking of share ownership over 50%, which, as you know, was banned to date, and the transfer of real estate assets to non-profit-making entities. I'm not going to insist on the figures. The minister explained them to us very well. What did he tell us? Eurostat told us that this counted as deficit, as debt - debt was increased according to the excessive deficit protocol by 34 billion - but it also told us something more. The financial engineering operation designed by Mr De Guindos at the end of 2012 - it is true that he had just taken the disaster that you, the Socialist Party gentlemen, left behind a disaster - all he was trying to do was avoid the computability of Sareb's public debt, and what Eurostat has told him is that this is public debt. And this could not be known? Didn't you know? Well, look, this took me by surprise. You will forgive the immodestness that is self-citing. In December 2012 the newspaper El Economista gave me a column to talk about this issue - in December 2012 - and I said that an analysis beyond the formal aspects of the operation showed that it was public debt. In the end, it's what it's turned out to be. Eurostat's decision does not force the majority of share capital to be taken - it does not force - regardless of the commercial problems generated by a company with a capital deficit, which many have long been solved in the regulation of the Sareb. What the government has done - from my point of view, in this case, with good judgment - has been, once it has lifted the veil of falsehood in which we have lived all this time, Minister, to make an offer to 54.1% of the capital, at least less than 200 euros, last week. About the price, we're not gonna say anything. The Sareb is broken and nothing's good. It has a capital deficit of 9200 million and it has to be assumed by the State, but it does not have to be assumed by the State because we are talking about a private sector, as you say, but because it endorsed the bonds. The bonds issued by the Sareb were what the Sareb handed over to the seven savings banks, to a subsidiary bank of a savings bank plus a very small private bank as a counterpart to the assets that were handed over to it, and endorsed it at the same time. I mean, we can't now get our hands on our heads, Mrs. Calviño. In this case it is not because of ignorance, but because of lack of intellectual honesty. You can't say you're saving the private sector, because this was public from the beginning. If it was known that after the 48 billion of capital was consumed, everything that was lost had to be put by the state because it was a guarantor, a guarantor since December 2012. [[Applauds]] It has cost us, with data on 30 June 2021, 14,092 million, of which 11,495 are absorbed by the public sector, because it loses all its participation and loses 9200 million of the capital deficit, while private shareholders lose 2597. Was this predictable? I already told you. This was nothing more than a silo, a silo where assets bought from the beginning over their reasonable value, on the one hand, to prevent the rescued entities, which were basically savings banks - these seven come from mergers in turn from savings banks - from recording more losses than they had already published, and on the other hand, to sustain the prices of the real estate sector with that long-term sales policy. It is not reasonable that, having received 51 billion assets and sold only 20 000 in the first eight and a half years - data as at 30 June 2021 - 14 billion losses have been reaped, and that with the high market since the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014, which shows that this is not a problem of mismanagement, but of operation - forgive me the expression, Minister - misguided, misguided. [[applause]] I wouldn't have liked to have been given this responsibility. This, rather than a silo, has been a sine qua non to hide the painful management of PP and PSOE with the help of United Left, unions and business associations of savings banks, entities with more social perspective than the exclusive digitalism that you are promoting. [[applause]] And now they complain that there is part of the population that does not have access to basic financial services. I will conclude, Madam President. We are also concerned - I said at the beginning - about the transfer of real estate to non-profit entities, because it seems that you pretend that every chiringuito...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u117	Mr. Manso, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u118	...have its location, and that will only result in losses that the State, the State already alone, will bear, because the shareholders have lost everything they had to put on and the private ones withdraw. We cannot participate, as you will understand, in this assault on public flows; perhaps you do because you have done so in the past. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u119	Thank you, Mr. Manso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Madam Vice-President, it seems that we started 2022 in the same way, another royal decree-law, the first of this year, basically of the Sareb, but in which there is a roundabout, as always, an article of labor regulations and an additional provision on business hours. It's not that it's not appropriate, it's not, it's not even urgent. We have known Eurostat's opinion for over a year. Hasn't there been time? It's three articles, Madam Vice President. As always, we believe that, on the one hand, they try to avoid legislative controls and, on the other hand, to reduce the legislative power to the minimum. This is the usual behaviour of this Government, in addition to its opacity: to control State institutions, to attempt to influence those which cannot control and discredit the rest. There is only Sanchez and his executive, only you and your governing partners decide the future of our country, and let me tell you that some of them are the worst thing unlike these General Courts. Democracy, gentlemen of the Government, is based not only on law enforcement and the rules - which they are not always doing either - but also on custom, something that has been continually jumping since they arrived at the Government. In addition, the democratic behaviour of politicians, the powers of the State is needed, and that is where the Government and this House are failing us. Spain needs them to react and return to the democratic path. They're doing a lot of damage to our system. I must remind you that the crisis originated with the Government of the Socialist Party, that the crisis did not know how to deal with the Government of the Socialist Party and that in the end they left the Government in 2011 because they did not know how to recover the country. The Government of the People's Party, with greater or lesser success, managed to save Spain from a terrible situation and consequences that would have been very harsh for some collectives if we had had to come to the country's rescue at the end. One of the consequences of this management of the socialist government was the situation in the financial sector. Ladies and gentlemen, when the People's Party came to the government the situation in the sector was as follows: the basic scenario used to determine capitalisation needs estimated a volume of losses in the sector of EUR 129,400 million, while the adverse scenario raised losses to EUR 209,100 million; entities that, logically, were unable to finance growth and that caused more closures of companies than they supported. The Government of the People's Party forced the bank to provide and dispose of real estate assets and doubtful receivables and to recognize the losses that had been hidden in the face of the passivity of the supervisors in the socialist era. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial system was saved to save tens of millions of Spaniards with deposits in banks. Europe gave us a hand, and one of the solutions imposed by Europe for the agreement was to create the bad bank, the Sareb. In an exercise of optimism, which was probably the most appropriate at the time, it was expected that it would not cost the Spaniards a euro. Now we know we do, though we don't know how much. There are still hundreds of assets left to sell and time for sale. The other option, ladies and gentlemen, would have been to inject more capital into the institutions, i.e. to assume the State's losses from the outset, but subsequently the sale of the assets would have only increased the profits of the bank. Therefore, this system seemed appropriate. I hope that the spokesman for Citizens has heard the reality, because I suppose he has not consciously lied in this plenary and has only been the result of his ignorance. So far, Sareb's losses have been almost all asset valuation adjustments. What the Government does from now on with the Sareb will be a new responsibility. We will vote in favour of the Royal Decree-Law because it seems logical that this change and the arguments put forward by the Vice-President are correct, but we will also demand sufficient controls, taking into account the background of this Government in the management of aid and in the distribution of public funds. [[The Lord]] Madam Vice-President, you spoke to us again yesterday about robust growth. It would have been so if its maximum growth forecast of 9.8% had been met by 2021, but we have almost half. It would be more necessary for us to grow after the brutal fall of 2020, but this is a mere rebound. We will grow, but much slower than we want, and that entails direct costs for the deficit and debt state. For this year they do the same again, very high forecasts, higher than the average of the analysts, who set them a 20% below before starting. We'll see how it evolves. And all this with an inflation out of the question. What is the government going to fight against it if it provides them with extra revenue in collection, points of GDP and debt improvement over GDP? What does it matter to you that you have such a pernicious effect on all our families and all our businesses as long as it goes well for you, right? Please, Madam Vice-President, stop propaganda and seek support from the opposition and civil society to find a truly robust growth model for the Spanish economy. Yours isn't working, we're the last in Europe. Doesn't that tell you anything, Madam Vice President? Please think back, and I'll tell you this out of responsibility. And I finish, Mr President, with a small point on Castile and Leon, which has been discussed so much this week. Castile and León's trade balance reached a surplus of 5090 million in November last year, compared to Spain's deficit of 20,836 million euros. Our GDP fell less than the national average in 2020, and by 2021 it will have grown somewhat more, and that we have our two most important economic sectors, the automotive and the agri-food sector, constantly attacked by Mr Sánchez and his governments since they arrived in mid-2018. We are still with 3 points less unemployment than the national average and we are in a leading position at the national level in health care and in one of the top three in education. As for social services, the Basque Country, Navarre and Castile and León continue to have the best rating in this area; of those of the general system of autonomous financing, it is the best autonomous community, especially highlighting the system of dependence, that is, the most vulnerable, also important because it is the system with the most under-financing. We are the best in Spain in effective coverage of services and services, that is, in results for people, and we are also the best in recognition of rights and management of the sector, which facilitates the improvement for the coming years. And you want me to change the government of Castile and Lion. I assure you, citizens are not interested. It would be better for you, ladies and gentlemen, than for other autonomous communities led by the left to try to look more like Castile and León. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u121	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u122	President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I hope, and I am sure that it will be so, that the citizens of Castile and León will realize what they have been doing for years in their autonomous community, also facing the territories and the Spaniards, and their last action, that of the European funds, being Castile and León the fifth autonomous community that is receiving the most funds from the state. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have no shame. After what they have linked with the banking in this country, they come here to defend their management and, moreover, they are allowed to say that this has to be treated as a bill because, otherwise, there is no control. And who controlled the People's Party when they dedicated billions of euros to rescuing the banks, which was the money of all the Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Who controlled you? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is probably one of the most important days of this Congress of Deputies. We put an end to the labour reform of the People's Party with which they precariously put employment in this country and we also put black on white the largest bank bailout in this country's history, both sides of the same coin as the People's Party policy to respond to an economic crisis as unfair as all the measures they took against the Spanish and Spanish, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And here we are, and we are going to give answers to your disastrous economic management and we are going to do it responsibly, ladies and gentlemen. I could finish my speech with a single sentence. Do you know which one it is? They tricked us. We were told that the bank bailout and that the Sareb was not going to cost us anything to the Spaniards, that it was going to cost us zero euros, but today we know that it was billions of euros that cost us the policy of the People's Party. Yeah, we were fooled. Moreover, its poor economic management is already part of the political and economic history of this country. Mr De Guindos told us at this very Congress of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, that the Sareb was part of the response to the financial crisis, which was part of its solution. Not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, that this was your solution, because here we are ten years later still having a living loan with the European institutions and the Spanish taxpayers have borne behind them the burden of the rescue to the bank that the People's Party did with its bad performance. It was a mismanagement, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in which the business plan approved by his Government for the Sareb was not sustained anywhere, as has been shown later. You set transfer prices to give taxpayers money to banks and to remove the problem from the table in the short term. They transferred the problems of the banks to future generations of Spaniards and, not content with that, they hired a number of financial intermediaries who sold the most valuable assets of the Sareb at a price of destruction, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And to close the circle of its financial misconception, they hired a financial swap that has done nothing but give losses, 3000 million euros of losses, that have also led to the Sareb to losses during all the years of life of the company and that make today have a negative net worth of more than 10,500 million euros. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, a reality that shows that we were deceived and did so at the expense of the Spaniards. There was no response in that you gave to the crisis EUR 10 billion to rescue the families, but you drew EUR 100 billion to rescue the bank. [[Applauds]] That is the reality, the harsh reality, dramatic, by the way, for millions of Spaniards in this country. In addition, lessons are allowed. Even Mr. De Guindos, in June 2021, said in a reply to Vice President Calviño that he did not want to compare inheritances. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I do want to compare inheritances today in this forum of the Congress of Deputies, because it is easy to sum up. In the face of its massive rise in taxes, privatisations and cuts, a policy to leave no one behind, with rescue for workers, workers, self-employed persons, SMEs, businesses in this country and all families through ERTE, ICO, direct aid for self-employed persons, benefits for cessation of activity. Faced with those policies of rescuing banks, we do rescue people. That has been the great difference in this country, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Today we have to make that decision to control the Sareb, to take control of the Sareb, because there is a reality that Europe has also told us, and it is that all the debts of the Sareb are now debts of the Spanish and Spanish. If so, let us also monitor the future of this company to at least decide what to do and, among other issues, promote social housing policy, public housing policy. Because that too we are playing in this royal decree-law. I conclude as the Vice-President said in her final reflection. Today we put an end to much of the response that the People's Party gave to the economic crisis and most importantly, ladies and gentlemen - which is probably why it bothers you - is that we have demonstrated in two years of socialist government management that there was another different way out of the crisis: with more rights, with more social justice, with more employment and advancing as never before in our history. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u123	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u124	We continue with the point on the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives and, in particular, on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, in order to penalize harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u125	Thank you very much, President. Our parliamentary group has already expressed its position in favour of the initiative we are debating today, both in the debate under consideration and in which we reject the amendments of all the popular and VOX parliamentary groups and in the work of the Commission and the Commission in which we approve the opinion that is being presented to this House today. That is why it will not be new if we now vote in favour of the Commission's opinion again. This initiative creates a specific criminal type within the crimes against freedom, and more specifically within the coercions, to punish harassment of women who wish to terminate their pregnancy voluntarily, as well as those conducts aimed at restricting the professional practice of the staff of health centres qualified for this health practice, since, as we said in this plenary, we must be extremely assured with those who want to exercise their rights, without having to argue by those who do not share the regulation on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy their freedom of expression to act in the vicinity of accredited health centres by harassing women and workers in these centres. One thing is the freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of demonstration and assembly to express the rejection of concrete and other regulation, to intimidate, coerce, harass, hinder and publicly signal individuals who wish to exercise their rights recognized by the legal order by limiting their freedom to act with conduct aimed at affecting the process of formation of their will, filling themselves with a feeling of fear, intranquility or anguish to change their conduct and without the active subject being legitimized for it. Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view - as we said earlier in this plenary - acting as a police officer is not freedom of expression; acribulating questions and considerations for women who have not asked for their prayers or their advice or their support is neither freedom of expression; interfering in the life of another against their will is neither freedom of expression; invading women's privacy in a difficult trance and who have not asked them to be rescued is neither freedom of expression; violating the exercise of a right is neither freedom of expression. In short, harassing and coercing in a premeditated, organized and persevering manner is not freedom of expression. A modern and tolerant society, which has given itself rules and which has chosen the rule of law, cannot tolerate such conduct; it must censor them and put the means in place so that they do not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group has tabled two amendments to this initiative. The first, that in the pursuit of the facts described there was no need for the aggrieved person to report or sustain the action or its legal representation; that it was no longer, in the end, a private crime, and was thus welcomed in the debates of the Commission and the Commission. The second of the amendments that we tabled, which has not been accepted and that is why we are bringing it to this House, consists in the introduction in parallel to the criminal offence of an offence against public security in line with what is stated in the explanatory statement of the initiative, which states that it is essential to ensure a safe area around health centres that facilitate the voluntary termination of pregnancy, which is, we add in our amendment, 150 metres away, in which neither demonstrations nor meetings of persons are allowed against the regulation of the voluntary termination of pregnancy, so that the privacy of women, their freedom and physical security, as well as their right to free movement, as is already the case in French or Irish legislation, are guaranteed. In this way, the sexual and reproductive rights of women are guaranteed, as well as the professional and labour rights of workers in health facilities qualified to practice the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for consideration of this second amendment not accepted in the proceedings of the Commission and the Commission because we believe that it is a major deficiency of the draft, especially when that circumstance is invoked in the explanatory statement, but then it has no reflection in the regulatory body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u126	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u127	Thank you, President. Those of us who grew up in the culture of reconciliation that the Transition entailed, which brought the freedom that brought us together as free and equal citizens, the recognition of rights embodied in a Constitution and a full democracy, we see with concern the degeneration that it suffers, the thinning of that space of freedom since it ruled Sánchez, the sectarian use of institutions for partisan purposes, the pardon to those who gave a coup d'état, the opacity and discrimination between Spaniards in the distribution of funds, the 1200 breaches of the Transparency Act, the veto on press freedom or the manipulation by stripping into the criminality of an institution such as the CIS, converted into chotheonational, are more of the long list of their sectarianism, of which this reform is another example. A reform with a clear ideological bias that undermines tolerance and freedom, the foundations of liberal democracies; it does not seek to solve a real problem, but rather to prevent the exercise of rights such as the exercise of expression or assembly of specific citizens. Because it is not a question of punishing harassment, it is already penalized, as in the PP we believe it must be and we always condemn, and that also differentiates us from many of you, from those who justify harassment against citizens who are contrary to their thoughts or purposes, because according to some of you you can humiliate the victims of ETA, harass Spaniards by speaking their language in a region of Spain, police or civilian guards just because they are, to those who practice a particular religion or to those who militate in a particular party. Or is it not harassment of the violent attack suffered by Congresswoman Llanos De Luna and members of the PP of Catalonia in Vic, one more of many, to prevent them from exercising a constitutionally recognized right? How many of you consider this woman more than deserved this violent harassment! [[Applauds]] Dear Llanos, all our support for the comrades of the PP of Catalonia in the face of the persecution of which you are victims by exclusionary totalitarianism. [[Applauds]] That is why it is not credible for them to justify their proposal for the protection of women, who have not been prevented from doing what they wanted to do, to have an abortion. The reality is that with the agreement reached by sanchismo and the ultra-left with the support of Citizens and PNV, on the one hand, the economic interests of some private companies are protected - curious - and, on the other and more serious, a message is sent to the Spaniards: care, gentlemen, those who have the dare to express peacefully an opinion contrary to the interests of the Government, its related partners or collectives you may be subject to legislation that sends you to prison. Because in Sánchez Spain, children can be harassed with impunity for speaking Spanish, the police and the Civil Guard, democratic institutions and the Head of State, will be protected by those who violently and illegally occupy your home, but if you dare peacefully exercise rights such as that of expression or meeting for issues that disturb the interests of the left, you will be able to end up in prison. [[Applauds]] An authoritarian conception of criminal law from the most absolute discretion. It is not true that they seek to protect women from a cause on which they have not given a single figure that supports their need, so they bring it as a bill, in order to avoid the reports of the consultative bodies, which the Government repeatedly despises, aware of the unconstitutionality of many of their reforms. While denying a pandemic law to combat the virus and to have prevented the death of some of the more than 100,000 Spaniards killed by COVID, there is a hurry for ideological reforms and the demands of its partners, such as to include as alleged victims of harassment the managers of specific private companies, to whose complaints they grant a presumption of veracity that they deny the State security forces in their anti-police law, the world upside down. And aware that there are no complaints from women who believe that they have really been prevented from having an abortion against their will, they include this crime among those who do not need to report the alleged offence. I mean, they deprive me, woman, of my ability to say whether I have been harassed for receiving a brochure and whether it has prevented me from doing what I wanted to do, abort, or whether I have actually not carried out that abortion because I, in my freedom, have reconsidered what I was going to do and I have decided not to do it; neither do they ask me. You do not want to criminalize harassment, what you want is to restrict by pre-censorship the right of expression, something that prohibits our Constitution. That is why they will not deceive us with incendiary speeches and with the overaction that we will surely see here today on the protection of women, while in Spain there are very serious events of gender-based violence without meriting the urgent attention of the incompetent Minister of Equality, dedicated to her, to them, and to plug in those condemned for justice. Never has a minister done so much harm to the struggle for women's equality. [[Applauds]] If it has provoked until the appearance of a new party, Feminists to Congress, precisely to fight against their policies! So stop covering up your incompetence in the defense of women and take care of our real problems, because poverty in Spain has a woman's face. According to Caritas' latest report, the terrible increase in exclusion situations has further affected women, widening the gender gap also in inequality. Work to ensure that women have more opportunities and are freer with measures to support families, birth and reconciliation, because their policies are preventing them from exercising a fundamental right, the right to a dignified life. I'm on my way. As a Democrat, I trust the rule of law and no one is deprived of their liberty by distributing a brochure on the street. There are those who become crutches of a Government that sharpens our freedom, promotes intolerance, restricts the rights of a liberal democracy and wants to impose the law of silence with the threat of imprisonment. But I tell you to make it clear that the People's Party is not going to frighten or silence us, and with us those more and more Spaniards whose cry of survival has already become Sánchez, go now! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u128	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that with this proposal, as has been said earlier, intimidation towards one-sided thinking is sought; that is, that no one can think in freedom and a warning to navigators that those who do not think as the Government thinks know they can have the prison sentence. That is the political objective of this initiative, which in this case affects those persons who have decided to exercise the right to abortion that they have under the law and those other persons who want to give information on the possibilities of abortion. In that sense, in the end what is sought is not only that one cannot give a brochure or pray on the street at the door of a place where it is born, of course without coercing, because then, as it is said, it is already in the Penal Code, but the warning to navigators to say: look, here you can only think that abortion is something that is very good, that is part of normality and that, obviously, going to abort is like going to do other things that can be done one day a day. To those of us who think that abortion is a drama, that it is a limit situation, what we want is to prevent us not only from saying it, but almost from thinking it. Because here one can only think that abortion is a great thing and, of course, try to frighten those we think that elaboration is a drama and a failure of society as a whole. That is the political objective, to pursue freedom of expression on this issue and, from this, on other issues, as we have seen. That is, what they like can be done, but what others think cannot be done freely. For example, you can interrupt, of course, in a church without any problem and insult all the people who are there, that seems something fun and can be done, but you can't allow some people to pray on the street. Of course, we are against one-sided thinking and we are against the persecution that is being done by the Government and the parties that support the Government so that there will be less and less freedom in Spain, which is what the citizens are seeing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u130	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. A few weeks ago I told you that extreme right-wings are continually lying about issues that concern citizens to create concern and insecurity and use it politically, although in many cases this generates an increase in hatred attitudes; I recognized their ability to twist narratives and arguments and to appear as the saviors of rights such as freedom of expression or freedom of assembly when in reality their political action is a continuous search for the limitation of these for those individuals and groups that do not defend their postulates, and we have reached the end of the processing of this law in the same way, with the anti-abortion campaign organized a few weeks ago by the ultra-Catholic Catholic Association carried out simultaneously in thirty-three municipalities throughout the State, including Vitoria-Gasteiz, in Basque Herria. It is incredible that in a secular state like ours the Catholic Church has so much news to call for prayer or harassment in front of the clinics where pregnancy interruptions are carried out, or for pederasty in institutions run by it, or for the patrimony of registrations. In Euskal Herria we have known for years the harassment of women who go to a clinic to perform an interruption of pregnancy of groups of the right rancia. This happened years ago and continues to be repeated in Antsoain, in Gasteiz, in Donostia; they are violating and restricting the freedom of Basque women and the rest of the state, even if they strive to argue otherwise. Let us recall once again that it is necessary to guarantee the exercise of the rights recognized for the interruption of pregnancy in the context of public health and that if this benefit is guaranteed on the public network as any other benefit, in a standardized way, the issue that brings us today will end. And we say it clearly: praying in abortion clinics is harassing. Leave us alone, we don't need your paternalism; we decide. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u132	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u133	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a proposal to amend the Penal Code to penalise harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. We have already discussed this proposal in this House on several occasions and have made known our position on this matter. We believe that women should make progress in the exercise of their rights. In a democratic society, in an advanced society like ours, what we cannot afford is for our freedom to be questioned, for our freedom not to be guaranteed. And I think it is also important that we know how liberals defend freedom. Freedom is not guaranteed in all cases. We have to fight to get it. Fight with energy. We must defend it from those who want to make us back, because we are faced with speeches that want to make us back, and especially when we talk about the exercise of women's rights. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is not free; we have to sweat it and fight it, and I think that is the way we are. The law recognizes women's right to abort, I don't know why we have to question at this time those assumptions that we already recognize in the law. Are we going to have a legal setback in the area of recognition of rights right now? I just don't know why we have to question the legislation that we currently have in force. The system must provide support to those women who decide to have their children. Of course I do! Because I also believe that here there is a twisting way to see what today is the guarantee of rights we are working on. In Citizens we bet that all women who decide to have their children do so with a guarantee of rights. Of course I do! That they do so with services, that they take into account women in a situation of greater vulnerability, but this does not mean that those women who freely decide to abort according to the assumptions we have recognized are coerced, frightened and unable to exercise their right to freedom. I think we need to put everything in place. [[Applauds]] Defending equality is for every woman to do and develop what she considers. I believe that women have already passed - and in some things we still have - too many impositions. We have already given many explanations about our rights. We've already been suffering a lot of inequalities, and we're still suffering them, but that's all right! when we're talking about assumptions like we're working on today. I believe that we have the right to exercise our rights in freedom without being harassed, judged or coerced. That is not to be informed, because I also see that it is being said that it is being limited to being informed. No, it is limiting coercion, harassment and fearing us in very difficult times. When a woman decides to abort it psychologically goes wrong, it's tough decisions, and besides, when you're going to exercise your right, you're faced with that coercion. I think that's what this proposal is for, to avoid it. Because my freedom - that's what I'm saying - I can exercise it, ladies and gentlemen of VOX and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, but as long as I don't trample on the freedom of others. [[Applauds]] I believe that women - as I said - have already experienced enough social impositions that have undermined our development, that have undermined our effective equality, and that is why I am proud to be able to say that, although we have much to go through conciliation, co-responsibility, glass roofs, in everything that represents an advance in equality, there is the vote of Citizens. Because there are political formations that do not bet on defending the exercise of women's rights. We're already seeing it. What is going on with the People's Party as citizens are not in the Community of Madrid? What can happen if we leave them alone in Castile and León? Because we must not forget the possible involution that can be assumed for more than 50% of the women we have in Castile and León to join the People's Party with VOX. Because we currently have the People's Party's Abortion Act in the Constitutional Court; we now have Mr. Almeida's statements saying that we would have to go back to the 1985 Pregnancy Interruption Act. That is why I say that Citizens must be like a containment dam in defense of the exercise of equal opportunities for all, and especially for the most vulnerable. The competition between the People's Party and VOX to corroborate who the right-wing hegemonic party is cannot be done at the expense of the reproductive rights of the women we have achieved with so much effort. I think this reflection is vital. I think it is vital that we do not take a single step back from the speeches we are seeing in this House, but it is also not acceptable for women and professionals who exercise the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy to be questioned, harassed and coerced. Many of us know women who have made this decision, and hopefully none of us have to look at a case like this, but if we have to be, there has to be a guarantee in their exercise, without questioning, without attacking, without threatening, without assaulting those who are in this situation and decide to exercise their rights. It is not to inform - I say again - because if we see what the Ombudsman's report has told us, we will see that it is not to inform on certain issues, the intention is different and that is why we no longer pass the women. We defend our freedom and legislation must move forward in the recognition of our rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u134	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u135	Thank you, President. This bill broke out with a VOX deputy - you will remember - calling a socialist deputy a witch, thinking she insulted her when, in fact, the witches are today for many of our other symbols of female empowerment. Just last week the Parliament of Catalonia adopted a motion for a resolution to repair, restore the memory of women accused of witchcraft, tortured and sentenced to death victims of misogynistic and macho persecution. The Socialist Party of Catalonia voted in favour, but did not want to sign the proposal. They said that this restorative initiative in history had nothing to do with the real problems affecting citizens or today, but, as I said, very recently, here still punished the memory of witches by using them as insults. Let's not forget, we are the result of our past and repairing it makes us better. But let us remain positive: what began with the spirit of insult will end with a vast majority of the witches in this House doing, if not magic, justice. Abracadabra, compañeras! From now on, the 'leave them alone' we asked for for women who wished to interrupt their pregnancy, exercising their right, becomes a new article 172 quater in the Penal Code, which punishes those who harass or harass them at the door of clinics, those who put at risk the necessary discretion and confidentiality that must accompany this difficult and painful time for women, those who contravene the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. Instead of harassing, offending, intimidating and coercing women, we recommend that those of the - open quotes - 'information and support works' go with their prayers elsewhere; for example, to the beaches of the south. On January 24, the bodies of five migrants appeared in Malaga. That's what it's like to look at the sky. And those of Cañas for Spain, who called for harassment of clinics on the last Friday of the month, too; we also tell them to go elsewhere. I already said in the consideration that the cold cane and hot returns go against our rights and convey through harassment the false idea that something is being done against the law generates stigmatization in the harassed people and, from now on, will have criminal reproach. There are pending issues about termination of pregnancy. Yesterday, without going any further, a non-law proposal was adopted to regulate a paid leave in cases of spontaneous seasonal loss. It was argued by the PP that pregnant women who lose their child after 180 days are entitled to maternity leave, but not those who, sadly, lose their child previously. We abstained because that petition was short. We understand that a paid leave must be regulated, a loss of duel in cases of spontaneous seasonal loss, but also in cases of women who decide to terminate their pregnancy for whatever reasons, making use of their right. Or don't these women need psychological support? Or do they not go through a painful and difficult process? Furthermore, if it is finally possible for the termination of pregnancy to take place in public clinics normally, as it should be, there would also be official certification for such cases. As you know, because it is a recurring topic in the appearances of the Minister of Equality, the vast majority - 85% - of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy occur not in public health centres, but in specialized clinics, so there is a great deal of road to go, to work with conscientious objection and to work with stigmatization. The reform of Organic Law 2/2010, on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy, which we have pending, will give us opportunities for discussion. Before I finish, I would like to mention the spokesman for the PP, who has commented that this law runs counter to the right of expression and demonstration. It seems that someone has made a spell and deleted it from the State's Official Gazette. People's Party gag law. But, well, at the moment we are celebrating the magic of the witches and some sorcerers in this House and, as I said, hugging. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u137	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Let's focus a little bit, because since we started this discussion - which is already the fourth time that we have taken it to this House, or the third time, I don't remember it anymore - it has come out a little bit of everything: it has come out that if the independenceists are not democrats... Several things have come out that you will already explain to me what they have to do with this proposal! During all these sessions, we have been explaining our vision on the subject, and it is interesting to see that what we are doing today is so small, compared to what we would have to do, that it is even a little sad that this overaction that you said, Mrs Angulo, has been created. It's a little unfortunate. Yesterday we talked about these issues and said: we have taken very few steps and all of them want reversible as conditions change, because we have not been able to establish and sufficiently strengthen the awareness that they are linked to human rights that, as women, we have in this world. Look at Poland! Not long ago a woman died because she was not given the abortion she needed, and she died because the rights of women are in direct decline, because they are the battle horse of the right and the right. And this is the drama! They're using it as a battle horse! And give the monkey that's rubber! And it's completely unacceptable, because they're playing with our lives! That is, its legislation - yes, using the CT, okay - is always untouchable, but when the only thing that is done is to articulate an element of the Penal Code to guarantee the exercise of a freedom, what is in question is freedom! It does not call into question the energists who, through their actions, coerce, intimidate and even terribly rape women! No, no, now it turns out that it is we who are trying to guarantee the exercise of a right that we are violating other rights? You know what's going on? That you only know of your rights! I mean, what's really here is: I have the right to pray in the nostrils of a woman who's going to make the decision to abort, because she wants me! Well, it's going to be no, it's going to be no!, because at the moment we have a majority enough to prevent it. [[Applauds]] Its position is: my right passes over yours, yours, yours and yours. Reason: because it's mine, it's mine! And it turns out that since you don't have enough churches - let's not talk about registration - because you don't have enough space, you should go pray to the doors of the abortion clinics! I told you the first time, I tell you the second time, sometimes I'm angry, sometimes I'm just disappointed, sometimes I'm frankly sad: it's bad, it's pathetic and it's petty, and if you had the least dignity of Christian people who say that you love your neighbor as yourself, you would never do it! But it's not about that, it's about imposing your vision on the world and your vision on the belonging of women's bodies. To see that they have believed, we give them rights and they intend to exercise them! Hey, they're leaving and they're trying to abort! [[Applauds]] Therefore, after four sessions listening to opinions that we could qualify as reactionary, after four sessions hearing approaches that we could qualify as authoritarian, all I have to say is that you look at the big difference - the big difference, we would say, ontological - between your proposal and ours. Do you want to pray? Well, it's a Don't you want an abortion? Don't abort. Don't you want a divorce? Don't get divorced. They don't... don't do it, but they don't stop us from doing it! Because it's starting to be an extraordinary coercion. To finish, I'll make you a little reminder. Violence in Catalonia has occurred. Yes, indeed. On October 1st, we were beaten until we stayed purple. That's violence, and state! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u138	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to deal with a very important issue that directly affects women's freedom, the freedom to decide on our motherhood and the sovereignty of our body; moreover, it is covered by legislation in force in our country that has been so hard for us to achieve. Because when we talk about voluntary termination of pregnancy what we're talking about is who the woman's body belongs to. And I will tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, our bodies, the bodies of women do not belong to the church, the state or the men. The bodies of women are not a conquerable territory - put that in your head already - our bodies are sovereign. I am a congresswoman for Cordoba, where there has been a forty-day campaign, which is said soon, in a clinic in my city. From here I want to send all my solidarity to those women who - they say, I do not say - have felt harassed, distressed, who have wept and entered with fear after meeting that horde of ultra-Catholic fundamentalists. They even asked that at the exit of the clinic they could go through the back door so that they did not have to go through that calvary again, that harassment and that marking. [[Applauds]] My solidarity also with the workers of those clinics who have declared - they and they, and not me, declare - that they have been disturbing and disturbing them for forty days. When a woman decides to interrupt her pregnancy she has thought a lot, a lot, because it is a tremendously hard and tremendously difficult decision to have that horde of integrists harassing me at the door of the clinics. It's an absolute cruelty! And that's clearly what I'm saying to whoever's defending him. Moreover, I do not think anything more contrary to religious freedom than to use prayer, regardless of religion, to strengthen the freedom of others. And let us be clear: prayer is not freedom of expression if the goal it pursues is to point out and coerce! That's not freedom of expression! [[Applauds]] Let's get this straight. Religious freedom, lords of the far right, is the separation between civil and religious life, and the differentiation between civil and religious spaces is the basis of democratic coexistence in any rule of law, and this is also stipulated in our Constitution, which defines our country as a confessional state. But it seems that VOX has not yet found out when its councilwoman in the town hall of my city, Cordoba, goes to a plenary, which is a public and confessional institution, to pray the hareariat. We expect no less from you, because you have not gone to any institution to do politics, the only thing you are going to do is to do shows. So keep doing your shows, but leave us alone and women. They also come here with their amendments on the basis of freedom, something else that I am grateful for. For you freedom is to leave on reeds. You will have to explain to me what kind of freedom or what extension or addition of freedoms provided me to take a cane in Madrid or to take it in Cordoba. No additional freedom. His freedom is to disguise himself - it seems good to me - as Mr. Married, who one day goes as a farmer, another day goes as a scientist, another day as a harvester and another day as a snowbreaker; or as Mr. Abascal does with all his troops, disguised as characters of the innocent saints. [[Applauds]] And while they are disguised on the street, they come here and do not support the Food Chain Act to regulate farm prices and vote against all measures in favour of businesses, families, workers and women. That is their concept of freedom, an absolute value to the powerful, relative to the people and very limited to women. That's his concept of freedom. [[Applauds]] Well, do they know what I'm telling them? That we are tired, very tired, of systematically questioning women's freedom, our freedom. We are tired, we want to be free, and we want to be free not to be afraid to come home alone, not to kill us or not to rape us, but also to decide on our body without being harassed and pointed out. And it's that there's an extensive tradition of pointing out to women. I can go back to the Middle Ages, when free women were pointed out for being free, calling it witches and burning in the bonfire. Now that they can no longer burn us, they pray to us. Leave us the women alone. The only thing that has not changed all this time from the Middle Ages to here is that they continue to point out to us and make public mockery of women when we exercise our freedom in our decisions about our sovereign bodies. We're in the 21st century, find out. Our free feelings and decisions also have to be protected, because it seems, gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, that here the only feelings to protect are the religious ones, and here the only freedom is that which benefits you. I will not deny that amending the Penal Code to penalize precisely this harassment of workers, workers and women who go to abortion clinics is a good measure to put an end to these concentrations, but we have to take a more important step, and it is that voluntary interruptions of pregnancy can develop in public hospitals where no one can know if a woman is suffering from an earache, a sprain or to interrupt her pregnancy. Abortion must also be carried out under conditions of maximum guarantee and a system that does not allow anonymity is not guaranteed. According to official data, in 2020, around 97% of abortions take place in concerted clinics, an anomaly in a country with a public health system and an extensive network of public hospitals. Therefore, with this reform of the Penal Code we are sending an important message, that women's bodies are free and sovereign. But this message has to be, from our point of view, and term...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u140	You must finish, Your Honor. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u141	...completed with which we can exercise the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. I told you once, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are the great enemies of women, but, comrades, sisters, not a step back in our rights, in our freedom and in the rights conquered. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u142	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, from now on, in some cases it will be an honor to be considered a criminal by a government that accords and pardons terrorists and puts in jail those who are dedicated to saving lives. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, something very serious is happening in this country, very serious. To classify as a criminal the peaceful conduct of the provided movements, which consists in informing, assisting, comforting or praying - yes, praying - before the abortion centers, rather centres of extermination, attacks seriously our rule of law and our democratic system. It introduces an authoritarian conception of the criminal law of the author, proper to a despotic and totalitarian government like his. First, it perverts the purposes of law; secondly, it despises the value of justice, and thirdly, and most importantly, it violates fundamental freedoms and rights to eliminate the dissident, to cancel the one who opposes his agenda and his culture of death. [[Applauds]] It perverts the purposes of the law because it will condemn persons who, by reacting peacefully to an unjust law such as the current abortion law, in addition to its perverse effects are increased by the lack of protection of the administrations to the most vulnerable persons. Any political representative who has a higher budget for abortion centres than to help pregnant women should be repugnant. [[Applauds]] When a woman goes to Social Security, often pressured by problems in the face of an unforeseen pregnancy, all they offer is abortion, the only establishment to which they derive is extermination centres. That's what should be considered a crime, that's called induced abortion and not considering people who offer consolation and humanity to women who have been destroyed after an induced abortion. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, this change means absolute contempt for the value of justice, since instead of protecting the unborn and instead of ensuring the health of women, as would be fair, it favours those who profit from the elimination of human beings and risk the health of their mothers; because those who want to be considered criminals who report the reality of abortion and its consequences are the centres of extermination, which use deception for economic sub-benefit, depreciating the health of women. To whom you represent is to the employer of abortion, condemned in the wake of several claims by Christian lawyers for misleading advertising on their website, for hiding the risks and deceiving by affirming that it is an intervention that leaves no consequences. It was proven in this trial that it may have countless physical consequences or risks such as sterility, mental illness or triple the risk of suicide. The text we discussed is the one that the abortionist employer asked Minister Montero just the day after the publication of some photos taking a coffin of an adult from one of the centers. That is why this regulation allows the centres to file complaints. Therefore, the complaint is not required by women who are allegedly harassed, because there is not a single complaint. Ladies and gentlemen, do not lie, there is not a single complaint! [[Applauds]] It is the centers that do not want witnesses, do not want those pictures of coffins that reflect death and want to work with total opacity and impunity to avoid police attestations like these. In addition, six thousand abortions less reduces your income by six million. Thirdly, this reform violates fundamental rights such as the right to freedom of expression, assembly, participation or religious freedom, of which persons who meet near abortion centres are holders. That is why we will have recourse to the Constitutional Court. There is a variety of case law. The right of expression cannot be restricted by any previous censorship, let alone by imprisonment. Different rulings of the Constitutional Court ruled that in a democratic society the urban area is not only an area of circulation but also an area of participation, and that this constitutes one of the few means available to citizens to express their demands publicly. [[Applauds]] They accuse such behaviour of impairing women's freedom or privacy. It is unfair to appeal to the freedom of women, who are mostly pressured, deceived and in an emotional state that prevents them from discerning. The immense hardness of his heart makes them present abortion as a right, as if it were something good to eliminate a human being. But it is also very perverse because violence against women, as it is happening, can be exercised without any punishment. [[Applauds]] You have to have a very hardened heart to send the message that the death of a child is the best choice, that it is a free act to abort, but that it is not the failure to do so. Don't be fooled, ladies, because that's not true. The only truth is that this woman, when she crosses that door, will let the child she carries be snatched from her bowels, and that has consequences. Do not deceive them, ladies and gentlemen, and tell them the truth; before so much iniquity, before so much hardness of heart, only the truth, that which you despise, is the one that can make us all free. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, these groups would not exist if the People's Party had fulfilled its electoral promises of repealing the Abortion Act, by repealing that wicked law, or the Constitutional Court had issued a judgment, as was its obligation, more than eleven years ago, ruling, if it is faithful to the spirit of the Constitution, that a unconstitutional law is being applied, because it cannot be a right to eliminate a human being, but must be regarded as an anti-legal act, and, moreover, the State must protect the unborn. [[applause]] We do not blame women; we accuse you. [[Applauds]] Something very serious is happening in this country, ladies and gentlemen. Something very serious is happening in this country, when the tributes to the murderers of nearly a thousand compatriots are allowed and put in jail those who have saved more than 6,000 lives. Something very serious is happening, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u144	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u145	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to do here today is to amend the Criminal Code, one of the most important laws in our legal system. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to amend the Penal Code to include a feminist perspective. All laws are better if they are feminist laws, because feminism is democracy. Therefore, we make parliamentary history. For the first time in our country, impeding the right to abortion will be a crime in the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, the Journal of Sessions will pick up our positions and most of you, when you read out your speeches over time, I am sure that you will recognize and be proud to have participated in this initiative. However, not everyone has been up to it today. People's Party and VOX have chosen, and have chosen the wrong side, they have chosen the harassers. It is desolating your drift, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is regrettable that you support the violent people who go to the door of the clinics to deprive women of their rights. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, many women in this country have aborted. You, ladies and gentlemen of the right and right are pointing them out; instead of respecting your decision, instead of respecting women's freedom with this vote against, you are accusing them. You do not believe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you are defending religious freedom. What you are supporting is harassment and stalkers. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, harassing women is not great. You know why I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, right? What's great is that women exercise their rights in peace, with guarantees and freedom. These heartless ones who stand at the doors of the clinics say of themselves that they are good Christians. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there are good Christians in many places; in my own parliamentary group there are fellow Members who are, but you know perfectly well that what stalkers do at the door of clinics is not to pray. To organized groups the only purpose that moves them is to try to coerce women's freedom and impose on them a decision that only belongs to them, ladies and gentlemen, to women. [[Applauds]] Because in Spain women have the right to abort. This socialist initiative is a success for Parliament as a whole. Taking forward these kinds of initiatives is a battle won against the far right and a battle won in defense of women's rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative will be adopted with a broad consensus. We make it clear that women's rights are unnegotiable. However, this initiative has concernedly portrayed the People's Party. Look, you could choose between women's rights and VOX, and you've chosen VOX. [[Applauds]] When that happens all the alarms sound because, when VOX comes into play, women's rights are always at risk, and we know it well. In Andalusia, the PP and Citizens, kidnapped by VOX, have allowed public funding for anti-abortion groups that harass women in Andalusian clinics. [[Rumors]] Women cannot trust Mr. Married, and today you, gentlemen of the People's Party, have demonstrated it again. They have the accountant at zero - at zero - in support of women's rights. You're useless to women, ladies and gentlemen. They will allow me to express my concern about the lack of clarity of the Castile-Leon People's Party regarding its possible pacts in the forthcoming elections. Look, people when they vote have to know what's going to happen to their vote. Luis Tudanca has already said that he will never compromise with the far right, so the people who vote for the PSOE will have the guarantee that with the PSOE ruling will never be the far right. [[Applauds]] But what about you, what about the People's Party? Why don't you say it? Why are you hiding it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Look, I'm just telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that women don't forgive... [[Rumors.-Mrs.Angolo Romero utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u146	One second, Mrs. Berja. Mrs. Angulo, you called her to order for the first time. While you have intervened, no one has interrupted you at all, but you have been interrupting all the interventions. [[Applauds]] I ask you, please, to have the same respect that is given to your spokesmen. The same. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u147	Thank you, President. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just telling you that women don't forgive you for negotiating with your rights, and they really should have learned that. They should have learned this after what happened to Gallardón and after that freedom train that silenced a minister who wanted to impose a law that took away women's rights. [[Applauds]] I would now like to address the rest of the parliamentary groups to thank them for their willingness to improve this initiative. The transaction that we agreed on in the Justice Commission and that signed Republican Left, PNV, Citizens, Union Podemos and PSOE incorporates improvements, such as the recognition that this same crime that is committed against women is also committed against clinics and health personnel. We can feel very proud today in this House for what we are doing. We can be proud because we have adopted a new legislative milestone in the protection of women's rights. We thus equate ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, with advanced countries in this area, such as France. I would also like to thank clinic staff for their work and commitment to making this violation of women's rights visible; thanks, in particular, to ACAI. This initiative is presented by my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and it is a courageous decision, but I would like to thank all the women in this House who from the beginning believed in this initiative, especially - I will allow this - I would like to thank the then spokesperson in the Socialist Parliamentary Group for their commitment to register this initiative. Thank you, Adriana Lastra. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no stopping feminism. Feminism is an illustrated theory and the most important social and political movement of our time, the most transformative and the one that achieves the most quotas of social justice. There is no fascist who can with the world movement of women, feminist women, and no insult here or on the street will stop us. [[Applauds]] One last question, ladies and gentlemen. Out of respect for my elders, those who preceded us, I want to say something that comes out of my soul.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u148	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u149	Thank you, President. The feminists that we are in Congress today take the legacy of the feminists who were before, of the feminists who have held seats in this Chamber since the Second Republic, and have done so in very diverse political formations. Were they not feminists Vitoria Kent, Clara Campoamor, Carmen Olmedo, Carlota Bustelo, Carmen Alborch or Cristina Almeida, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] Today I would like to thank the courageous women who have defended from this rostrum every progress in the rights of all. Today, with this initiative, they also resound their voices, those of all of them. Feminism always, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u150	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u151	We continue with the debate on the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry on the illegal use of personnel, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior with the aim of promoting the political interests of the People's Party and nullifying incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption during the mandates of the People's Party Government. Mrs Leal Fernández has the floor for the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u152	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting on 1 October 2020, agreed to the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry concerning the illegal use of personnel, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior with the aim of promoting the political interests of the People's Party and cancelling incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption during the mandates of the People's Party Government. The Commission's establishment agreement stipulated that the duration of its work would be three months. This deadline could be extended by a decision of the Congressional Plenary. The Commission was set up on 22 December. Upon request for special meetings, which were necessary for the management of the work of the Commission, the Bureau agreed to open a time limit for parliamentary groups to submit their proposals for the Commission's work plan. The Committee met on Friday, 22 January, to discuss and vote on the work plans submitted. It was approved the proposal submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which determined the following stages for the Commission's work: the written information and documentation phase, giving the Bureau of the Commission the approval of the relevant applications; the attendance phase, giving the Commission the approval of the applications for appearances; the drafting phase of the opinion, for which it was stipulated that the Bureau of the Commission would agree on a time limit during which parliamentary groups could put forward their proposals for incorporating the opinion. The Bureau of the Commission also opened a time limit for parliamentary groups to submit requests for documentation and appearances. At the end of this period, the Commission met to agree on appearances and the Bureau adopted the agreement on requests for documentation, the details of which are set out in the opinion which you know. The plenary session of the Congress, at its meeting on 18 March 2021, agreed to extend the deadline for the completion of the work of the Commission until 30 June 2021. The first appearance took place on 27 March 2021 and during this period twenty-six appearances were held, which also appear in the background to the distributed opinion. The plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting on 24 June, again agreed to extend the deadline for the completion of its work until 31 December 2021. To this end, the Bureau opened a new deadline for parliamentary groups to submit their requests for new appearances. This was agreed on 5 October, and 14 new appearances were held during this period. The Bureau also agreed to request additional documentation; the details of this were also included in the adopted opinion. After the hearings, it was agreed to open a deadline for the submission of proposals for inclusion in the opinion. Finally, the Commission adopted the opinion which was put to the vote at this plenary meeting on 22 December and agreed to open a time limit for the presentation of individual votes, which will also be put to the vote at this plenary session. All meetings of the Commission at which appearances have been held, in accordance with rule 64.4 of the rules of procedure of the Congress, have been held with publicity. The Presidency of the Commission at the beginning of the successive appearances has expressly recalled the legal regime applicable to them and, in particular, it has stressed the Presidency's desire to safeguard both the rights of the representatives recognized in the Organic Law of appearance before the Committees of Inquiry of Congress and the Senate as well as the due respect of the representative to the Commission, the need for interventions and the statement of the representatives to be consistent with the object of the Commission, the right of the representatives to be able to do so accompanied by the person appointed to assist it, the obligation contained in article 502.3 of the Criminal Code not to fail in the truth in their testimonies and, finally, the Presidency's willingness to preserve the right of the representative not to declare, so that in such a case the interventions of the groups would have to be developed in terms which respect this right, in balance with the duty to cooperate with the commissions of inquiry. Allow me, President, finally, to express, clear and public recognition and to express my respect for the work done by the Commission's lawyers and for their rigour and professionalism. I would also like to express my gratitude and respect to all the speakers in the parliamentary groups who have participated in the work during these months. Finally, I would also like to extend my appreciation and respect to the members of the Bureau of the Commission who have accompanied me in this task in recent months. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u153	Thank you very much. The opinion received particular votes from the various parliamentary groups. For your defence, I have the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will fix its position this time, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. The two parliamentary groups that feed the Government this afternoon end one of the great trophies of the fourteenth legislature with the delivery of the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry set up in October 2020 to update the perverse methods of the Court of the Holy Office and direct them towards the opposition, in this case to the People's Party. We are faced with another black chapter of democracy, which has tried to destroy the image of political opponents, in this case those who ruled Spain for fifteen years in two stages, on account of the episodes of corruption perpetrated by some of its former members and by collaborators of the organization. Ladies and gentlemen, with this Commission, Congress has been transformed into a pitiful circus pimpampum in which the object of the investigation has been left aside in order to seek political results in matters that were already the subject of judicial proceedings; I stress that they were the subject of judicial proceedings. The infamous mode began in 2017, when the Socialist Party of the then former deputy Pedro Sánchez connected with Unidad Podemos to create the broth of cultivation that led to the unjust motion of censorship of 2018 against President Mariano Rajoy. It was in that XII Legislature that the epidemic of sectarian parliamentary research began in a single direction and in which the People's Party was already targeted in the Government with the creation of another commission of inquiry in which José María Aznar was brought to the conclusion of a prolific list, nothing less than thirteen years after having left the presidency of the Government. In short, he rejected these inquisitorial methods, which neither then nor now contribute to the general interest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u155	Thank you. Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u156	Thank you, President. We are part of a shared particular vote, but I would like to explain here today in more detail the view that the UPC has on the issue of corruption, a vision that we will also make public in the coming days with a document that we will send you. I want to start with a date from a great writer, Chesterton. He said: Capitalism is a monster that grows in the deserts. Why am I talking about capitalism? Because it's quite related to us. We understand corruption as the power to eat, as the grabbing of common resources for particular interests, as the accumulation of a few at the expense of the dispossession of many, as the looting of the common. Today we talk about the corruption of the PP, and we could quote the 'here are hairs for everyone, an important 'pastuqui' of Mr Correa, who left us great sentences. We could be talking hours of PP corruption: box B; Gürtel; case Taula; case Arganda del Rey; contracts Valencia; Punica; Lezo, or City of Justice. In fact, it is the most corrupt party in southern Europe. But today we also wanted to say that conclusions will be adopted pointing exclusively to the People's Party, as if corruption were a matter of rotten apples. We think it's not a rotten apple, ladies and gentlemen, it's the whole basket. Manuel Vázquez Montalbán already wrote in the 1990s the Anti-Corruption Manifesto, where he spoke of the permanent state of corruption. And it is that the illegal financing practices of the parties have not been an exclusive thing of the People's Party. The method of undeclared payments from entrepreneurs to the party in exchange for concessions of public works or contracts has been carried out and has been practiced by the majority of parties that we call the 78 regime. In fact, the first case that comes to light and that is being brought to justice is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Filesa case, but we could also talk about the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, the case 3% or the piece that has now jumped from the producer Triacom, who under the mandate of Artur Mas also financed electoral campaigns. We continue with this idea. It's not an apple, it's the whole basket. Montalbán also spoke of the state of mutual relief. Much has been said in this committee of the Ministry of the Interior - of this I was going - and if we focus on the Spanish Ministry of the Interior it is very clear that this is the whole basket. Villarejo, as a metaphor, who, by the way, now seems like no one knows, but has been working in the Ministry of the Interior for decades. Operation Catalonia, La Camarga's famous meal, the PSC up with the People's Party. Or we can talk about the LAGs. Ladies and gentlemen, some say that they have passed through the courthouse and others still expect apologies and responsibilities to be assumed. Mr Eugenio Pino said: We have done operations for Spain that would put the hair at the top. Another of the questions that we have asked ourselves and have put to the participants during these works in appearances is whether this reason of State, if this reason of Spain, is above fundamental rights. Can Spain's reason be allowed to break the law over and over again? I continue with this idea that it is the basket and left Montalbán for a while; I leave the 1990s and go to a much more current topic, climate change, and a practice that is the essence of corruption, the selfishness of some vis-à-vis the common resources of many. Castor case, to inject gas so as not to lose money that the European Investment Bank put, via a company of Mr Florentino Pérez - the other great of the corrupt practices in Spain -, disheartening reports that they said that there would be earthquakes, doing the same, despite the earthquakes, and in the end - surprise! - it is compensated to the company of Florentino Pérez because the contract so previewed. Corruption is not isolated, corruption has been a practice of the parties of the 78's regime and, moreover, it does not have a single exclusive scope: large infrastructures, debts, real estate speculation, public contracts, whatever you want. I want to end two ideas. The first is - going back to what Montalban said - that what is at stake is not the hegemony of the party in power, but social trust in the democratic majority and democracy itself. Not all parties are equal and corruption is inevitable. It's been systematic, but it's not systemic. Millet said - I finish, president, in ten seconds -: We are about four hundred people, we meet everywhere and we are always the same. Capitalism of friends. This is corruption. That state...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u157	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u158	... in which it seems that capitalism has learned from the mafia - yes, it ended - what the mafia thought it had learned from capitalism. Thank you very much and apologize. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u159	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u160	Thank you very much, President. The People's Party planned and directed the so-called Kitchen operation and allocated public officials, media and funds for it. There's no doubt about that. The conclusions of this opinion are obvious. It is obvious and reliable what is gathered in them and, therefore, we will support them. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I will also tell you that they have not made it easy for us. Why? Because, while it is true that everything contained in the conclusions is obvious, it is also true that a number of issues that we believe are determinant are left behind. Why? What is the purpose of such a commission of inquiry? Firstly, to clarify what has happened; secondly, to see whether there were political responsibilities, but, thirdly, also to see what has failed and what will not be repeated, and thereby to take the measures and modify the rules that can prevent irregular acts such as the one in question. What is the reason why they did not want to delve into the substance of the matter? Well, look, one of the reasons might be the next. The Kitchen case has been a scandal, but it is also true that this scandal is not new or not unique. As has been the case with Operation Kitchen, the same methods have been used in Operation Catalonia, these methods have also been used in the Basque case and we have also seen that they have been used in the case of some forces that currently support the Government, as is the case with United Podemos. But these sewers didn't start working with the People's Party. Although it is true that they have not only used them, but have abused them, they come from afar. Cases of sewers did not start with the LAG and the last one was not the Kitchen case. So the important thing is, beyond determining what has happened, to reform the system that has made it possible for the Kitchen case and so many others to occur. Mr Villarejo - Mrs Vehi said - did not start working with the People's Party, moreover, they retired him. This gentleman, as he told us well in the Commission, returned to the National Police in 1993, under the mandate of Minister Corcuera, to carry out these special tasks he has carried out with different governments, and this same political course we knew that, during the mandate of Mr Corcuera, from the Ministry of the Interior they dedicated themselves to sending explosives or bombs to militants of the Basque independenceist left, a serious fact that we believe should be clarified. Or in this case do you not believe that what has happened should be clarified? Doesn't there have to be commissions of inquiry in this, or should it not be clarified? It's surprising, really. Beyond these irregular or illegal actions, we see how the system is organized to produce these facts. The reform of Mr. Belloch's Reserved Funds Act in 1995 has not prevented, as the conclusions are well reflected, that there is still, in respect of the Reserved Funds, waste and control. What do we do to reform that law and not re-produce acts of discontrol and waste by the Ministry of the Interior? Similarly, during the sessions of the Commission, we have seen the case of retired medals, promotions for no reason or purpose, and even golden destinations, to say the least, given as prizes, as gifts, to some agents, friends in some cases and others for having performed special services, such as the one we have dealt with in Operation Kitchen. Moreover, we have even seen the case of a person coming into the National Police for taking part in this scandal. What do we do so that it doesn't happen again? There is the problem, there is the lack of conclusions, which I say we will support because it is true what they say, but that they are left so much and so much in the tinker. Mr Morocho, one of the few who has been actively involved in the Commission, said that today he still has pressure within the National Police for investigating the Gürtel case. Does this seem normal to you? By the way, it is also surprising that little information has come from the institutions to the commission of inquiry, and I am not referring only to the judge's hand, which was predictable. A gentleman who declared so many parties secret because he made secret mentions of the State in relation to Catalonia or with the head of State was to be expected, but we have also received little information and late from the Ministry of the Interior today. What's going on? What are you hiding? It should also be said that in this Commission, apart from Mr Morocho, there have been other agents, other people who have cooperated and have given information that came to clarify what happened, such as Mr García Castaño, the Commissioner, who acknowledged that he had participated in Operation Kitchen, but he also told us that this, without being usual, was also not new, that he had previously participated in operations without judicial permission, entering homes or making recordings or follow-up - I say - outside of the law. It wasn't exceptional. I ended up, Mr President, saying that Operation Kitchen is obvious that it was directed and organized by the People's Party, but the question is, what do we do now to dismantle the sewer and all those pipes, that network of pipes that have been running for decades? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u161	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u162	Thank you very much, President. We speak for the defence of our particular vote in relation to the conclusions adopted in the work of the commission of inquiry concerning the illegal use of personnel and means of the Ministry of the Interior in order to promote the political interests of the People's Party and to set aside incriminating evidence against it. Ladies and gentlemen, a large number of parliamentary groups agree on the political responsibility of leaders of the People's Party, direct political responsibility in the cases of senior officials of the Ministry of the Interior - Minister, Secretary of State and Director of Police - and political responsibility in monitoring or vicarious to the former President of the Government and former President of the People's Party and Secretary General. This is a coincidence, although on our part we do not agree with all the considerations that are made in order to reach that conclusion, and not necessarily by what is said, but by understanding that this Commission of Inquiry was in order to determine the political responsibilities of those who hold and hold political office, and not to widen the perimeter to others who, although sometimes concerned with being instrumental and necessary, were not in the political direction of the facts investigated. Likewise, we do not consider it appropriate to take as final facts that were under criminal investigation, as well as personal criminal responsibilities that have not yet been clarified judicially. We also believe that the conclusions should have been consistent with what is known through the appearances presented and the documentation requested and provided, which has been remarkably scarce, being generous in the assessment. However, we do not want the seriousness of the facts found during the Commission's work to be blurred. First, that the fraudulent police structure articulated between the mandates of Mr Jorge FernándezDíaz at the head of the Ministry of the Interior and intended, as I have pointed out, to hinder the investigation of scandals of corruption and the monitoring, investigation and persecution of political opponents, and which was recorded in the conclusions of the commission of inquiry approved by this plenary in 2017, is largely the same that is embedded in the facts investigated in this other commission of inquiry, which we now discuss in plenary its conclusions and particular votes. Thus, Operation Kitchen is one more operation of the patriotic police, intended to hinder the investigation of the Administration of Justice through the removal of incriminating evidence that could be derived for the People's Party and its maximum responsibility. To this end, it has been accredited the mobilization of abundant police means, materials and funds reserved, the capture of Mr. Bárcenas' driver, his payment through funds, and his reserved and his access to the status of officer of the National Police Corps at an unusual age, all with the illegal purpose of attaching information in possession of Mr. Bárcenas. And the promotion of police and the award of retired medals to the police structure most involved in the so-called patriotic police and its operation Kitchen has also been accredited. The indications are therefore varied, of different origin and basically not contradictory to each other in determining the direct political responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State for Security and the Director of Police. And, moreover, because the police in a democratic society do not put in place a structure of the so-called patriotic police silence or an operation with as many means as Operation Kitchen without being ordered by the political leaders of the ministry or without their consent. It is not credible that neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Director General of the Police were outside this Kitchen operation, despite their manifestations in this regard. To a greater extent, the various statements of the police officers are unanimous in stating that the operation is determined by the political leaders of the ministry and that they reported the results of the ministry to them. For his part, the Secretary of State for Security expresses this in an express manner, even if he tries to exculpate himself by stating that he did not set it in motion, without preventing him from participating in it. In short, the indications point to these three senior officials of the Ministry of the Interior as connoisseurs, consentors or inducers of the Kitchen device. They had at their disposal the motives, means and opportunities they used for the direct or indirect perpetration of the facts mentioned. And, together with these direct political responsibilities, we consider that the President of the Government - the President of the People's Party at that time - and the Secretary-General of the People's Party, even though, in our view, there is an indicative burden of proof, a burden not on the entity of the said one, for the senior officials of the Ministry of the Interior, are, in our view, creditors of an unsupervised political responsibility or a vicarious responsibility for the serious events that occurred in a department of his Government and his party, in which, respectively, they were their most visible heads. In short - and I am finalizing, ladies and gentlemen - we believe that the law has been flagrantly violated, actions have been taken to hinder and prevent the administration of justice and there has been difficult or impossible damage to the credit and good name of the National Police Corps, with serious damage to its resources, structure and functioning, in whose political responsibility the persons mentioned in our particular vote are held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u163	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u164	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. It is up to me today to talk about the corruption of the People's Party, to talk about something in whose persecution I have invested many hours of my professional life, but I have not only invested many hours of my professional life in the persecution of the corruption of the People's Party, but also in the persecution of the corruption of the Socialist Party, the PNV or Convergence i Unió, in the Pujol case. I would therefore like to begin by saying that all political corruption is bad; it is bad because it causes disaffection of citizens with regard to the institutions, but above all because it always involves money that we all pay; it is public money whose purpose in the service of general interests is diverted in favour of the pockets of individuals or for the benefit of some political party, as is the case with the financing of the People's Party. There is no corruption that can be persecuted, denounced and another that can be excused. You always use this corruption tool with the 'and you more', you're more corrupt than I am. This competition is absolutely aberrant, it's bochronose, it's unfortunate, and of course you can't stop chasing and analysing corruption in a commission of inquiry because no other corruption is being investigated. Indeed, the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can systematically oppose the pursuit, the investigation of corruption that affects our own parties. We pursue all corruptions, all seem absolutely bad to us, and we also impose them on our coalition partners where we govern. That is why you, gentlemen of the People's Party, for our transparency policies, are blowing up the air of functioning governments, such as that of the Castile and Lion Board. This is also another issue that Mr Iñarritu has pointed out earlier, and it is for what the committees of inquiry are for. Look, the committees of inquiry should serve - as he has said - not only to investigate, to clarify the facts, not only for citizens to know the truth, but also to adopt legislative measures that can prevent these cases from occurring in the future. And this is where the Socialist Party's opinion is unambitious, because we agree in essence on the diagnosis of the facts, because we believe that there is indeed a responsibility of the People's Party in these facts, and yet no measures are taken. These are the measures that we have defended in our anti-corruption legislation that we have brought here and that you have voted against: the transposition of the complainant's protection directive - do not forget that the Gürtel case is initiated by the denunciation of a gentleman named José Luis Peñas, who unveiled this operation and has no protection whatsoever - an independent agency protecting the complainant; an approval of the subsidiary civil liability of political parties that have chosen certain people to put their hands in the box; a crime of unjust enrichment of the politician who cannot explain where his wealth increases come from when he has devoted himself to politics; a strengthening of the regime of incompatibilities and conflicts of interest of high-ranking officials who really are. These are the measures that we have proposed in our particular votes, and these are the particular votes that I stand for here. I would like to tell you that, in fact, those who have already spoken before me have already said this, the facts are clear: public means were used to remove evidence for the investigation of another prosecution for corruption offences by the People's Party. I will not detail them, but it is true that there is the responsibility of numerous commissioners of the National Police Corps and of those who do not, according to Judge Manuel García-Castellón, have legal-penal, but political, responsibility, and I mean Mariano Rajoy and María Dolores de Cospedal, with a clear political responsibility, in monitoring or in electing, even if they do not have criminal responsibility. I'm saying it so clearly. The facts are of extraordinary gravity, it is a corruption squared, it is using personal means and public materials to prevent the truth from being discovered in another process of corruption that affects the People's Party and it is something that surely benefited the People's Party in the concealment of these evidences, that we do not know what they are or what effect they would have had on that main procedure, in which I was personified for fourteen months of oral trial. Therefore, I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Party, so that you may be ashamed and make a donation for the value of that money, which is quantified in the car of the Central Court of Instruction No. 6, in something that reverses the general interests, so that that public money that you benefited from will be reversed for the benefit of society, to which you stole that money that was destined for the general interests. As I say, these are facts of extraordinary gravity. I know you are not going to do it, but I tell you that I would simply settle for you to change your attitude - you, you and you - and what we were all committed to in a state pact not to tolerate corruption, to pursue corruption. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] [[Rumors]] You can tell me whatever you want, I'm not gonna shut up. To pursue corruption and not to hide it. I reviewed the hemerotheque of the days following the Gürtel case: it was an operation of Rubalcaba - Mr. Santamaría even came to say it in the Kitchen commission -; it was a conjure against the People's Party; it was something that the Socialist Party had invented... Let's see, then are unjustly convicted people in prison? That must be it. That message from 'Luis, be strong'... Let's see if we all really agree that all political corruption is bad. Let's see if you, you and you find out and stop protecting her and we'll all be chasing her. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u165	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, there are many already, both in the political and judicial spheres, it is believed that the People's Party is an intrinsically corrupt party, in addition to supporting a regime in which corruption is structural. A party that does not hesitate to use institutions for its own benefit, both political and personal, in this case, creating a structure, including a political police within the Administration at its service to harass its political opponents and to protect its own criminal activities. We understand that it is also observed that all this structure and its functioning were not possible without the knowledge of the People's Party, senior officials of the PP Government, the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Government, among others. Are they going to take on political responsibilities they and you or are you going to keep throwing balls out claiming that they are things of the past? In any case, as stated in a previous intervention, the PP is always very just about democracy and very much about corruption, except, of course, that its concept of democracy is to use institutions for its own benefit and partyism to plunder the public, to finance itself illegally, to collect bribes, to destroy evidence or to create parallel police structures within the State. We conclude then and conclude now that if in this state there was democratic and truly independent justice, with the Party Law in hand, with that law that you created to pursue politically Basque sovereignism...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u167	Your Honor, your time is up, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u168	The corporal. ...and simply with everything we know, the PP would be illegalized as a criminal organization. If there was, of course, unfortunately there isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u169	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u170	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to finally assess and vote on the conclusions of what is known as the Kitchen Inquiry Committee, which is not necessary... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u171	One second, Mr. Boadella, one second. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u172	I say that it is not necessary to know much about an operation directly linked to the removal of the evidence of the treasurer of the People's Party, Mr Bárcenas; evidence, documents and sensitive information that could harm the People's Party in an operation, above, financed by public means. In yesterday's session the PP tabled a motion calling on the democratic state, the separation of powers, that nantine defence of democracy, but the worst face of democracy is, without a doubt, to read the twelve-page conclusions of this seventy-nine-page long report of the Commission and see that the democratic state had its darkest night around these events of the Kitchen case. To define exactly what happened, to define who ordered it - when it seems in the palm tests that it was an operation directed and ordered by the Ministry of the Interior - and to define who knew it. It is clear, as pointed out earlier, that criminal responsibility is one and political responsibility is another and, of course, it is more than clear. Who knew and who didn't know? This is also important to say because all this happened and it was not until the end of the years that no one found out, however much control of the opposition there was. In the end, the working methods inherent in the functioning of a Francoist State practically, totally contrary to the rule of law and democracy, make it as worrying as those who ordered it as those who did not do their opposition function well to control that these events did not happen. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a single gentleman, it is not the idea of one or two people. There was talk here of conjura; indeed, of the conjura to save the PP in this cause, but also of the conjura that on many other occasions has served to persecute those who do not think like them. Everything is worth or the end justifies the means. The Commission's enormous work, therefore, is to create a clearly well-known reality in relation to these facts and, without a doubt, the need to take measures to ensure that this cannot be ordered or re-observed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u173	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u174	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, investigations in Parliament are useful. Kitchen has been and would be investigating the corruption of King Juan Carlos or clarifying all the implications of the August 2017 attacks. The Kitchen case investigation has revealed that there was a fraudulent police structure in the Ministry of the Interior that had no other objective than to torpedo the investigation into the corruption of the People's Party, with the consequent misuse of material and human resources and economic resources, including funds reserved for the payment of double agents and spies. This gang of criminals didn't come out of nowhere. The investigation has shown that he acted under the command of Minister Fernández Díaz, with the direct involvement of the Secretary of State, Francisco Martínez, and the Director of the Police, Ignacio Cosidó, and whose criminal operations were entrusted to the DAO, Eugenio Pino. And all this under the political leadership of the Secretary General of the People's Party, Dolores de Cospedal, who, at least, had the consent or acquiescence of the President of the Government, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. Look, there are reserved funds in all states, but what it is about is that, here, they have been used not to defend the public interests, but the interests of the PP. This appropriation by the State, this confusion of particular interests with the general interest, is a slippery slope. The same modus operandi has also been used, which seems even more scandalous to us, to attack from the state with the money of everyone to legitimate political proposals, political opponents, specifically Podemos and Catalan independence, the so-called Operation Catalonia, a genuine political police. This in the Spanish state may come out for free, but we hope that out of Spain will not. Mr. Rajoy, former ministers Montoro, Fernández Díaz and the entire dome of the Ministry of the Interior are now in the process of being charged in Andorra with the crime of coercion against the constitutional organs of that country, and several policemen are guilty of documentary falsity, coercion and blackmail. As you well know, Operation Catalonia extended to Andorra to look for bank accounts of Catalan political leaders from all over the independence arch. There was nothing and, not getting anything, first, Spanish police blackmailed a bank, the Private Bank of Andorra, and then, in 2015, two months after President Rajoy's official visit to the Principality of Andorra, Private Bank closed. Do you know that Sepblac has declared the closure of BPA and Banco de Madrid inappropriate and that it can entail a capital liability of 500 million euros? Do you know that Judge García Castellón, in the Tandem case, according to the Police and the Prosecutor's Office, has found that these police activities are indicatively criminal - and I quote - although this criminal activity would have taken place in Andorra and is the subject of investigation in that jurisdiction? The question we ask ourselves is, if Mr Rajoy is finally quoted, will he make as President Puigdemont always appear before justice or will he be a fugitive from justice? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u175	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u176	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, Members of Parliament. The usefulness of the commissions of inquiry will depend on the use of the findings. I would like to begin by reminding all those present that the Commission's work was to try to find out what the political responsibilities were. And I am talking about political responsibilities because, although I have to say that it is not that I have unlimited confidence in the Spanish judiciary, in certain criminal types it is the judiciary that finally has to resolve guilt or not, but it is in this House where the political conclusions and responsibilities they have had for their actions must be looked at. I am hearing the word corruption, but this is not exactly a case of corruption, and I will explain why I say it this way. What we were trying to find out was the use by the People's Party of personal elements and material elements of the Ministry of the Interior at its stage to cover up, in order to obtain - and thus - that certain evidence linked to cases of corruption does not reach judicial headquarters. This is not exactly the same as 3% or other elements; i.e. this served strictly issues of monetary corruption. This, in fact, shows and what we have seen very clearly during all the sessions is that the Ministry of the Interior and the Police have a summary - in this sense systemic and not systematic, because it is part of the same nature of this State - the use of the State Security Forces and Bodies and the Ministry for political persecution. This has a much higher stake, because it has nothing to do with people, with ministers and with parties. Do you know what former Minister Fernández Díaz said?Man! I make myself responsible for my years, but this, look at the twenty-five years before. This largely explains - I suppose, and it is regrettable - that we have not been able to reach shared conclusions. I come here to say that we will support the conclusions that the PSOE puts on the table because, in the end, if not, we are left without conclusions. We have made a particular vote - which we regret that the PSOE does not vote in favour - a few political forces that, among other things, have been the victims of these state sewers. And do you know what has been shown in this Commission? That the State's raison d'état and the cloacas of the State are synonymous are equivalent elements; that this State, which has not broken with the regime of which it brings cause, which has not broken with the regime of 78, continues to use these State means with impunity to combat dissent. In that sense, it is not systematic, it is systemic, it is part of the very essence of the State, because the Transition was a face-wash, because the police came from before, because the commanders see normal spying on the opposition, because all that apparatus sees fantastic and perfect creating rumors, fake news, false accusations against political opponents, and because all that State is designed to defend - woe, gentlemen! - the unity of Spain and I suppose its destiny in the universal, for that is designed. Therefore, in no way have the Catalan citizens who have been heard, who have been persecuted, who have set themselves up genuine charades regarding corruption, who have been sought Junqueras, who sought Trias, it is still time, at this moment, for forgiveness or apologies to be asked. For these citizens cannot understand this State as their own or as guarantor of any of our rights, because its own creation does not respond to that. If I felt Spanish I would say to them: democratize their institutions and democratize now that they have time, because they will be the next victims, as is happening to Podemos. How many times have you graduated in the newspapers the corruption of Podemos? How many times has he appeared on the cover that is not true and that he has rejected himself? How many? That is not random, that is not an alignment of stars who do misdirected investigations; that is a persistent and deliberate will to pursue those who understand that they do not agree with the unity of destiny in the universal. Three more questions. First. Villarejo, the great protagonist: how many 'villarejos' are there in the police right now? Because Villarejo worked for all the interior ministers: his and his. [[Noting the seats of the Socialist and Popular parliamentary groups in the Congress]] Do you know if there are no more commissioners in this situation? To which Commissioner Villarejo should we pay attention and must he justify commissions of inquiry, to which - for a battle of power between Commissioners, they say, or of power in the People's Party - he brought this out or to which he tells us that the CNI was linked to the attack in Barcelona on 17 August? What Villarejo should we pay attention to? And you're going to go on, systematically, not letting there be commissions of inquiry? Is that what they're gonna do? In any case, when an independentist comes to the state she believes that, well, maybe there is some conspiracy theory, but with what she finds it is much worse, much more embarrassing, much more systemic, much more dirty, which explains much better the reasons why we have to go. But I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u177	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u178	I'll do it right away. Thank you for giving us the reason. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u179	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u180	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Last January, Macbeth's latest film adaptation, starring Denzel Washington, was premiered, and I would dare to say that if Shakespeare lived today, he would find an up-to-date inspiration in number 13 of Genoa Street. Macbeth represents an archetypal impulse, the desire for absolute power and its link to corruption, betrayal and revenge. And on this point it is worth asking Pablo Casado: are they leaving or staying from the seat paid with black money? And more important than this, if it fits, Married promised to clean up Genoa 13 of corruption. Well, if you did, what did Mr. Married find? Have you completed your internal investigation? I'll tell you, the courts are over. According to the Supreme Court's ruling, the People's Party was illegally financed by a black consignor donated by large employers, the majority of whom were State contractors. These contributions were used to pay off the leaders of the People's Party and to pay for various services, including the above-mentioned reform of the National Headquarters of the People's Party of Genoa Street. And I do not say this, I insist, this is a legal truth ratified by the Supreme Court. Having said that, it should be clarified: what is Operation Kitchen? Who are the actors involved and who are the main ones interested in removing the famous roles of Barcenas? Operation Kitchen began in 2013 to steal any information that could be harmful to the leaders of the People's Party from the former PP, Luis Bárcenas. This would be an operation ordered by the former Interior Minister, and designed and supervised by the police dome at that time. The leader of the operation in the shadow would have been the archdiocese former Commissioner Villarejo, who was an old acquaintance of the People's Party already in the times when Fraga was Minister of Information, with Franco. Villarejo served whoever was the founder of the PP and, by the way, Villarejo, during the term of Mariano Rajoy and at the hands of the Minister of the Interior, Fernández Díaz, received up to four decorations for his services to the homeland. Operation Kitchen was tried and executed outside the law; that is, there was no court order justifying neither the purposes nor the means used. It was, therefore, an illegitimate and fraudulent use, a supporter of the State Security Forces and Bodies, involving around seventy officials who were not informed of the illegal nature of the operation. And after a year of work in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry we came to the conclusion that this operation could not be carried out without the consent and knowledge of the political leadership of the PP - and this has been said here - at least of the then President M. Rajoy and General Secretary Maria Dolores de Cospedal. But what made it possible for this entire mechanism of obstruction of justice and the removal of evidence to reach both the media and the courts? We return to Macbeth's archetype: the desire for absolute power, the wars of power and the political plots of corruption, treason and revenge. [[Rumors]] First of all, we should mention the political war...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u181	Wait a minute, Your Honor. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u182	As I said, first of all, we should mention the political war by succession at the head of the People's Party between Cospedal and Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, then political leader of the CNI. For different purposes, both were very interested in taking the roles of Bárcenas for the mentions made to Cospedal's husband, businessman López del Hierro, who was allegedly one of the main corrupters of the People's Party. And secondly, we should mention the so-called intelligence war for information control. Villarejo would have accumulated too much - sensitive, by the way - information that transcended the People's Party and could involve high state institutions, especially after Villarejo met Ms. Corinna Larsen in London. This meeting earned Villarejo the enmity with the then director of CNI Sanz Roldán, who could be at the origin of the macro cause known as Tandem; let us remember that the Kitchen case is only part number 7 of this macro cause. Rajoy, for his part, would be interested, by the way, in making an arbitrator between the political war and the information war, since it was very sensitive information that affected the People's Party, the Mariano Rajoy himself and, as I have said, the structure of the State in a context precisely of profound social and political changes, with the emergence of Podemos and in full process in Catalonia. The most serious of all is that, while the PP was the biggest hack to the welfare state - cuts in pensions, education, universities and dependency aid -, it was wasting public money in internal power wars, and this misappropriation of public money should not go unpunished. The diversion of resources and troops from the State for partisan purposes is something that must not be repeated again. Today, however, the People's Party is again at the crossroads, and I am referring to the political war between Diaz Ayuso and Married. We will see if, as soon as the elections in Castile and León are over, we are not faced with a new plot of corruption, and a new plot of espionage does not break out for us, to which the People's Party has unfortunately accustomed us in its internal wars of power. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. The greatest guarantee of non-repetition in the future is to take decisive action in the present. That is why I ask the majority of the progressive forces in this House to support the document of conclusions that the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Common brings to this session together with the rest of the forces of change. Thank you, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u183	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u184	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me start with a brief context. On October 1, 2020, as the president pointed out, is the date when the one known as the Kitchen Research Commission was set up. At that time we had been fighting the pandemic for seven months. Outside these privileged walls the Spanish people suffered. We had thousands of missing companies, thousands of jobs destroyed because this government, with the majority support of this House, decided to ban working for the Spaniards without approving, in parallel, a fair compensation plan for all the Spaniards who had been banned from working and bringing bread to their homes. [[Applauds]] Three months of house arrest under an unconstitutional state of alarm, according to the High Court, thanks to the estimation of VOX's appeal. Not to mention the more than 100,000 Spaniards who have lost their lives throughout this pandemic; 100,000 Spaniards who are not recognized as victims by this government, but have been hidden and continue to be hidden under unworthy propaganda. Well, after seven months of deep suffering for the Spanish people, we have that the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can use their parliamentary force to reject VOX's requests for the purpose of setting up in this Congress commissions of inquiry concerning the acquisition of sanitary material. During those months more than EUR 1 billion were awarded by way of emergency. [[Applauds]] We asked for a commission of inquiry into the deaths in the homes of elderly people, after meeting in this Congress, in this House, through the president of the bosses of the residences of elderly people, who, when under the command of Mr. PabloIglesias and the residences of elderly people asked for medicine, what they sent to them was morphine. And they rejected a commission of inquiry. [[Applauds]] We call for a Commission of Inquiry into the management of the Government during all these months, which would have enabled us to draw lessons from the actions carried out and better prepare ourselves for the event that we have to face another emergency tomorrow. All of this was prevented by this parliamentary union between the Socialist Party and the United Podemos. But what's more, if your interest was to carry out an investigation into something that had nothing to do with the fight against the pandemic, which at the time, October 2020, we were carrying out, why they also refused VOX's request to carry out a Commission of Inquiry into the illegal financing of the United Nations We can come from narco dictatorships. [[Applauds]] When we were talking about imputing a party to the coalition government. No, they decided 206 votes in this House that we should carry out a commission of inquiry, in an unprecedented way in the history of Spanish parliamentarianism, into events that occurred in 2013 and 2014, the one known as Operation Kitchen, which had the purpose - in an unprecedented way, I repeat, because it was facts that had allegedly occurred in a past legislature - to investigate whether, under the government of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy, reserved funds and other resources of the Ministry of the Interior and other public institutions had been used criminally, in order to remove incriminating evidence from the People's Party and alleged senior leaders in the judicial investigation by the alleged caisse B From that party. We have devoted 20 Members and two Members of this House to this for just over a year. But it turns out that after embarking on this barren adventure, they wanted a controlled blast, because when we asked for obviously relevant testimonies in that Commission, starting with Mr Villarejo himself, Socialist Party and United Podemos opposed. VOX had to travel to the prison to gather Mr. Villarejo's testimony and be able to offer it later on in the Commission of Inquiry. [[Applauds]] That's the only way we can twist our arm. As they have opposed appearing on the Kitchen Soraya Sáenz Commission of Inquiry in Santamaría, who was Vice-President of the Government under Rajoy's mandate, and the former Director of the National Intelligence Centre, Mr. Sanz Roldán. As Mrs Dolores Delgado and the prosecutor Ignacio Stampa have opposed the appearance in this House, with regard to whom it is now being investigated whether it was tortically removed by its public prosecutor to torpedo, precisely, the investigation being carried out at the National Court of the known as Operation Kitchen. And today we know precisely that an association of prosecutors will bring Dolores Delgado to justice for preventing access to the file of prosecutor Ignacio Stampa. [[Applauds]] The reality is that, as VOX said on 1 October 2020, this Commission has been absolutely barbarous for a reason of pure logic, and that an investigation was being conducted in parallel for the same facts before the National Court which, believe me, I, who have acceded to the judicial proceedings, I have described as a genuine film of terror, but it is clear that the most interesting witnesses for the relevance of their testimony, when they come to this Parliamentary Commission, would refuse to declare because they thus assist their constitutional right of defence. It is clear that when we complete the judicial documentation of interest to shed light on these serious facts, we would be denied due to the reservation of judicial cases. But, listen, Socialist Party, you dare to say in an opinion that there are certain criminal officials here, and you point to Mr Mariano Rajoy and Mrs Dolores de Cospedal. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, but how dare you do the same in this House and in this rostrum, and now explain to me why you have not mentioned Mrs Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. Why has the investigation and alleged involvement of the National Intelligence Centre in the serious facts being investigated by the National High Court been avoided in this Commission, and we too were supposed to be prevented, not through a controlled blast? We ask you to vote for the particular vote that this group has put forward and that it intends to make improvements so that public resources are not lost again in actions as sterile as this Committee of Inquiry, and because, moreover, the opinion that you are expected to adopt, the one promoted by the Socialist Party, has a clear unconstitutionality for violation of fundamental rights...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u185	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u186	In conclusion, Mr President. ... as declared by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 13 December 2018. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I suppose you are clear that if I were to wear a robe and be in a court of law right now, my speech would have been very different.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u187	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u188	I hope you'll be very clear. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u189	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, do not let your support for today's labour reform make you forget what the rule of law is. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you have served the Commission's work for something, it is precisely to show how little some of you respect the rule of law and its institutions, and I say this precisely because, ladies and gentlemen, when we hear what we have heard in a democracy, both here and in the Committee of Inquiry, and when in a democracy the Government is dedicated to controlling the opposition and not the other way around, there are two things going on in that country: one, that the Government is increasingly authoritarian, and two, that the Government must have very little confidence in itself, and that is what happened when you decided to turn the Committee of Inquiry into a very large trial against the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, they have acted as did the Soviet courts, in which one finger accuser acted as a police officer, as a prosecutor, as an investigating body and also as a sentencing court. And they have done so with one single objective, which has been to undermine the People's Party, and I believe that they have not succeeded, and they have not, because they have gone to the work of the Commission saddened by the fear you have of Mr Villarejo, who knows of all the trophies that have been committed in the Ministry of the Interior under the governments of the Socialist Party at the head of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applauds]] Fear led them to oppose their appearance, which did support the People's Party, and you did not want it. His fear explains why none of the participants have been on the proposal of the People's Party, not one. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u191	One moment, Your Honor, one second. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u192	And it was the fear that led them to adopt conclusions that contravene the provisions of the Constitutional Court. Eye! Gentlemen of Citizens and gentlemen of the PNV, that there is a sentence that says that exceeds the parliamentary investigation activity any legal qualification of the facts investigated and their individual attribution, which is just what you have done in the conclusions, disregarding the law and the law, as you almost always do. And fear, ladies and gentlemen, because you have decided to match the Commission's work with an ongoing judicial investigation, life-related incidents, an investigation involving the Socialist Party and Podemos, which has allowed you to use the documents that are part of the judicial file, against the judge's judgement, which warned of the confidential nature of the case. And if fear explains part of its way of acting during the Commission's work, the rest is explained by the release and bad faith, because it has to be very freed to collect in the Commission's request for creation the literal tenor of a letter from the prosecutor's office to which they had access for the sole reason that they were in person in the judicial case, and it has to be very bad faith in that same letter when they appealed to the destruction of the PCs of the People's Party - eye! - one year after a judicial body had exonerated the case and the three people who were accused in that case. [[Applauds]] But of course, the case is that you never let truth and rigour interfere in your sectarianism. They set up a commission of inquiry to clear up political responsibilities, and in the 13 conclusions there is not a single political responsibility required, something unusual, ladies and gentlemen. They harshly criticized the decision of some of the representatives who accepted their right not to declare, but forgot what Mr Chaves and Mr Griñán did, who in Andalusia passed to the Andalusians through the lining of their whims, when they decided not to go to the Commission of Inquiry which studies how the funds of the Andalusian unemployed ended up in light houses and in the consumption of certain substances. [[Applauds]] But even so, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest and most unforgivable lack of respect for the rule of law occurs when, when you stand as judges, you use the Commission's conclusions as a form of condemnation, when the law prohibits it and when there has not yet been a judicial decision. [[The lady]] If we go through neighborhoods, we'll say it differently. Gentlemen of Podemos, you who have shown so much indignation when you came up to this rostrum, were you outraged when you saw in Villarejo's agenda that Mr. Pablo Iglesias asks to meet with him? Were you outraged when you found out that Mr. Villarejo had twice sat with Mr. Monedero so that Villarejo would bring you the money entered into accounts from an African country to Spain? Aren't you ashamed that the prosecutor in this case had a sentimental relationship with one of the lawyers in his formation? [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u193	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u194	Are you not ashamed that the story of Pollo Carvajal and Villarejo coincides in his accusations to Monedero, Bescansa and CEPS for having taken from the Cuban dictatorship and the narco regime of Maduro 6.7 million euros? [[Applauds]] To you this does not bother you, you are always outraged, but the truth is that I do not remember that you have ever given any explanation in this matter either in the matter of Nerona or in that of the nanny or in that of Kinema or in that of the affective relations with the prosecutor's office, you have never given any of the explanations that you so earnestly demand of the People's Party, and that we gladly give. The same is true of the Socialist Party. The Socialists, something incomprehensible, decided to give Mr Villarejo credibility in the words because he simply accused some leaders of the People's Party, and that is a mistake that we are not going to make. We do not give the presumption of veracity to Mr Villarejo's words, but the truth is that Mr Villarejo's words affecting the People's Party are being reviewed by a judge and those concerning you are not being reviewed by anyone, and that is the justice we demand from the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I ask you several questions. Do you deny that Mr. Morocho used Villarejo's facilities to question witnesses in the Gürtel case? Do you deny that Mr. Villarejo employs the daughter of the Rubalcaba DAO in one of your companies? Do you deny that there was an instruction from Rubalcaba's cabinet that the daughter of the president of the Senate would not stop her in Operation Astapa? Do you deny that Villarejo participates in Operation Gürtel, when he has never served as a judicial police officer? Doesn't it seem like a scandal to set up a parallel police structure to control the main opposition party? Sounds like a big scandal to me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Do you deny that Mr. Oscar López met with Villarejo to know what he knew about the saunas of the president's father-in-law? Do you deny that a very high socialist leader ate with Villarejo to cover up the scandal of the saunas owned by the father-in-law of the President of the Government, saunas, ladies and gentlemen - I regret to tell you - where prostitution was practised and in relation to which the President of the Government has never given a single explanation? [[Applauds]] I wonder: has there ever been a time when the President of the Government has benefited from the profit generated by the sexual exploitation of these people? I'd like to know. In short - and I conclude - we do not prejudge the veracity of Villarejo's words.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u195	Mr. Santamaría, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u196	The Commission has failed to bring forward this alleged material against the People's Party which, I see, Mr Bárcenas announces to the media but has denied three judges. And even though you've tried, it hasn't served to discredit the National Police either. Please note that today the Hearing denies the medals, by anti-legals, that Marlaska has awarded, while the medals that were awarded during the People's Party period have no doubt of legality. And if they refer to the reserved funds, I see, because the regulations were approved by Margarita Robles, the current Minister of Defense. I would like to conclude by thanking the President of the Commission for the great patience she has had with this spokesman in her work. Thank you for your work, President. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u197	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Socialist Group has the floor, Mr Sicilia Alferez, on a position-setting basis.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Kitchen Panel of Inquiry ends and, after fifteen months of work, twenty-six sessions and forty-two appearances, the conclusion is clear and leaves no doubt: in the PP corruption was endemic and was so widespread that it was normalized, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That's Kitchen's conclusion. The PP of now, with Mr. Married at the head, has coexisted with the corruption of Aguirre; the PP of now, with Mr. Married at the head, has coexisted with the corruption of Rajoy. And they can't get away from her. You know why? Because every morning that Mr. Married enters the headquarters of Genoa, he enters a headquarters whose works were paid for with black money. [[Applauds]] They enter a headquarters where Bárcenas met to collect bites from the entrepreneurs, they enter a headquarters where Villarejo would walk the corridors to talk to Cospedal about the corruption of the PP of Valencia and Madrid. And you know what's best? Let Mr. Married sit in the same office where Rajoy charged the B-box bonuses of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot get away from corruption, and that has become clear in this Commission, it has become clear that every time the People's Party comes to the institutions, what it does is take advantage of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, when you come to the institutions, do not put them at the service of the general interest, you put them at your service, at your partisan interest. They arrived at the local governments and the governments of the autonomous communities, and what did they do? To be financed illegally through bites, contracts and public works. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy came to the government of the nation, and what did they do? They put the state, police and reserved funds in the service of a corrupt plot to cover up the corruption of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You, whenever you reach the institutions, use them to benefit from them, either to finance yourself or to cover up your corrupt plots. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, that is the Kitchen, a corrupt plot to try to cover up another corrupt plot; the Kitchen to cover up the Gürtel, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests.- Mrs. Riolobos Regadera utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u199	Quiet, please. Mrs. Riolobos, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u200	That's Kitchen. Ladies and gentlemen, the corruption you installed in the government of the nation with President Rajoy, which you established and left in the autonomous communities, such as in Madrid or Valencia, where you ruled, or in the municipalities you passed through, all that corruption did damage the image of Spain; quite the contrary to what is happening now: a president and a government congratulated on good management and transparency over European funds. [[Applauds]] Nothing to see, ladies! [[Strong Protests]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, with you, corruption; with this government, recognition and congratulations. [[Applauds]] That's what you've done! [[Applauds.-Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u201	Mr. Sicilia, just a moment, please. I'm asking for silence. [[Pause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u202	Thank you, Madam President. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u203	Quiet, please. [[Pause]] Mr. Sicilia, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u204	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Santamaría, if you had a little decorum, a little bit of modesty... yes, Mr Santamaría, a little bit of modesty, it would not have occurred to you to appoint Minister Rubalcaba. [[Protests]] It would not have been possible to appoint a minister who would have ended this country's terrorism. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that you, after what we have heard in that Committee of Inquiry, should not even have used the speaking time; you should have put your head in the hole after everything we have heard in that Committee of Inquiry. [[Protests]] Yes, because we heard how illegally reserved funds were being used, how police were being instigated so that they would not continue to investigate PP funding. Moreover, don't you remember, gentlemen of the PP, Mr. Santamaría, how former Minister Jorge Fernández pointed no more or less than Rajoy and Cospedal as responsible for the Kitchen? We have heard that in that Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that an operation with more than fifty police officers is being set up, using technical and material means of the police, where funds are being paid for by different confidants, and that all this - fifty police officers, material means, paid for by reserved funds - is being done without the Secretary of State or the Minister of the Interior knowing it? If this were so, in whose hands was the security of this country? It's just that that's serious! [[Applauds]] They knew it. And the minister and the secretary of state knew, and that is why they are accused and charged in the case being investigated. Are they really trying to make us believe that a minister who does not appear in the papers of Bárcenas, that a minister who has not earned any money, that a secretary of state, lawyer of the Courts, who has had nothing to do with the PP, who has never earned anything from that B-box, are going to play their credit, their prestige, their honor and run the risk of going into jail for yes? No, they did because they received an order, and the only one who could order a minister of the interior was the president of the government; that is the only way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. Asking you to let go of corruption is useless. Corruption is something you carry intrinsically, you carry it in DNA. It is therefore foolish to ask you to stop corruption. [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u205	Silence, please, silence. [[Mr Suárez speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Suárez, silence, please. [[Mr Carazo Beautiful utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Fuck, please, silence. Go on, Mr. Sicilia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u206	Gentlemen of the PP, if all this momentum had put it, instead of interrupting me, in ending corruption, today they would not have two sentences that condemn them for benefiting from it. [[Applauds]] But, since you are not going to let go of corruption - we are still waiting to see the case of the primaries of Morning in Salamanca, of Black Pearl, of the windmills - since you are not going to let go of corruption nor will we be able to stop talking about it, at least we ask you to let go of your negationism and its blocking. They have done a lot of damage to democracy in this country with their corruption so that they continue to do so much damage to our democracy and our politics with their attitude of blockade, boycott and negationism. [[Protests]] We'll have to endure his corruption...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u207	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u208	... but at least work together to make politics in this country something useful and you, at least, are useful to the citizens of Spain. [[Strong protests.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u209	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. Ladies and gentlemen, in three minutes we shall be voting on the amendments and the individual votes tabled on the Commission's opinions. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to penalize harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Vote on the amendments. Vote on Amendment No 7 by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 37 plus 2 telematics votes, 39; against, 296 plus 12 telematics votes, 308; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u211	The amendment was rejected. Bloc vote on the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 139 plus 5 telematics votes, 144; 196 plus 9 telematics votes, 205.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u212	The amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u213	Opinions of committees of inquiry. Opinion of the Commission of Inquiry concerning the illegal use of personnel, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior in order to promote the political interests of the PP and to annul incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption during the mandates of the People's Party Government. Private votes. Particular vote No 1 by the Basque Parliamentary Group on proposal 15 in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Basque Parliamentary Groups [[EAJ-PNV]] [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 192 plus 6 telematics votes, 198; 87 plus 5 telematics votes, 92; abstentions, 56 plus 3 telematics votes, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u214	The amendment was adopted. Rest of particular vote No 1 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 34 plus 2 telematics votes, 36; against, 214 plus 8 telematics votes, 222; abstentions, 87 plus 4 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u215	The individual vote was rejected. Individual votes Nos. 4 to 10 from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 9; against, 271 plus 14 telematics votes, 285; abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u216	Individual votes are rejected. Particular vote number 2, of the Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican, Plural, Euskal Herria Bildu and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 60 plus 6 telematics votes, 66; against, 220 plus 8 telematics votes, 228; abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u217	The individual vote was rejected. Particular vote No 11 by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 53; against, 281 plus 14 telematics votes, 295; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u218	The individual vote was rejected. Particular vote number 3 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 87 plus 5 telematics votes, 92; 194 plus 9 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u219	The individual vote was rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u220	We moved on to the agenda item on the request of the Commission on Science, Innovation and Universities for a two-month extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the subcommittee on the development of the Science and Innovation Pact and the study and analysis of the amendment of the Science Act. That request shall be put to the vote, together with the other matters, at the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u221	We conclude with the last item on the agenda, on the proposal for the House plenary to approve the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the transposition of European Union directives on guaranteed bonds, cross-border distribution of collective investment undertakings, open data and re-use of public sector information, exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain online broadcasts and broadcasts of radio and television programmes, temporary exemptions from certain imports and supplies, of consumers and for the promotion of clean and energy efficient road vehicles; coming from the Royal Decree-Law 24/2021 of 2 November. This proposal will also be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, from now on, until 6 p.m. today, the non-legislative proposals and motions, the actual decrees-laws, the Commission's opinions and the overall vote of the first of them, the request for extension of the subcommission and the request for avocat. The meeting was suspended until 6.15 p.m. when all those matters were put to the vote. Thank you very much. It was five and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 6.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We started with non-law propositions. The Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on boosting connectivity and 5G technology in areas affected by depopulation. The vote was taken on the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 14 by telephone, 349; 273 votes in favour, 14 by telephone, 287; abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u223	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the suppression of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. [[File number 162/000892]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u224	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the abolition of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 149 plus 5 telematics votes, 154; 182 plus 9 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u225	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u226	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Equality to ensure equality for Spaniards. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 14 by-laws, 349; in favour, 54; against, 281 plus 14 by-laws, 295.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u227	It's rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO PROTECT THE SPANISH TOURIST SECTOR. [[File number 173/000116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u228	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to protect the Spanish tourism sector. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 139 plus 5 telematics votes, 144; 187 plus 9 telematics votes, 196; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u229	It's rejected. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the non-existence of humanitarian corridors to safeguard the fundamental rights of migrant persons in transit within the borders of the European Union. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 173/000117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u230	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the lack of humanitarian corridors to safeguard the fundamental rights of migrants in transit within the borders of the European Union. [[EAJ-PNV]] We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 14 by-laws, 349; in favour, 197 plus 9 by-laws, 206; against, 138 plus 5 by-laws, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u231	It's approved. - of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, on the measures and promises of the Government to counter the disordered price of light. [[File number 173/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u232	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group concerning the measures and promises of the Government to deal with the unorthodox price of light. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party, Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 175 plus 9 telematics votes, 184; 149 plus 5 telematics votes, 154; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u233	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the constitutional observance of the Government's legislative agenda. [[File number 173/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u234	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the constitutional observance of the Government's legislative programme. Voting by points. We voted on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 148 plus 4 telematics votes, 152; 186 plus 10 telematics votes, 196; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u235	It's rejected. We voted on point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 149 plus 5 telematics votes, 154; 183 plus 9 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u236	It's rejected. We voted on point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 334 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; against, 185 plus 9 telematics votes, 194; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u237	It's rejected. We voted on point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 86 plus 5 telematics votes, 91; against, 246 plus 9 telematics votes, 255 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u238	It's rejected. Finally, we voted on point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 148 plus 5 telematics votes, 153; 183 plus 9 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u239	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u240	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 32/2021 of 28 December on urgent measures for labour reform, the guarantee of employment stability and the transformation of the labour market. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 166 plus 9 telematics votes, 175; against, 169 plus 5 telematics votes, 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u241	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is repealed. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the services of the House inform me that the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government present, stood up.- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal, stood up, while shouting: Yes you can!, yes you can!]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 169 plus 5 telematics votes, 174; 166 plus 9 telematics votes, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u242	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2022, OF 18 JANUARY, AMENDING LAW 9/2012, OF 14 NOVEMBER, OF RESTRUCTURING AND RESOLVING CREDIT ENTITIES; THE LAW 11/2015, OF 18 JUNE, OF RECOVERY AND RESOLUTION OF CREDIT ENTITIES AND INVESTMENT SERVICES ENTERPRISES; AND THE REAL DECRETO 1559/2012, OF 15 NOVEMBER, ESTABLISHING THE LEGAL REGIME OF THE ASSEMBLY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY, IN RELATION TO THE LEGAL REGIME OF THE ASSEMBLY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY PROCEEDING FROM BANK RESTRUCTURATION. [[File number 130/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u243	Royal Decree-Law 1/2022 of 18 January amending Act No. 9/2012 of 14 November 2012 on the Restructuring and Resolution of Credit Institutions; Act No. 11/2015 of 18 June 2015 on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies; and Royal Decree No. 1559/2012 of 15 November 2012 establishing the legal regime of asset management companies in relation to the legal regime of the asset management company arising from bank restructuring. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 256 plus 12 telematics votes, 268; 53; abstentions, 26 plus 2 telematics votes, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u244	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 14 by telephone, 348 by telephone; 333 by telephone, 12 by telephone, 345 by telephone; 2 by telephone; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u245	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u246	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to penalize harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. We are voting first of all on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 274 plus 10 telematics votes, 284; against, 61 plus 4 telematics votes, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u247	The opinion was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u248	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 334 plus 14 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 195 plus 9 telematics votes, 204; against, 139 plus 5 telematics votes, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u249	Accordingly, the proposal for an organic law was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u250	Opinions of committees of inquiry. Voting of the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry concerning the illegal use of personnel, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior, with the aim of promoting the political interests of the PP and nullifying incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption, during the mandates of the Government of the People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; 186 plus 9 telematics votes, 195; 86 plus 5 telematics votes, 91; abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u251	The opinion of the Committee of Inquiry was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u252	Request for extension of subcommissions. Vote on the request of the Commission on Science, Innovation and Universities for a two-month extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the subcommittee on the development of the Science and Innovation Pact and the study and analysis of the amendment of the Science Act. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 335 plus 14 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 333 plus 14 telematics votes, 347; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u253	Accordingly, the extension of the subcommission was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u254	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of the request for the House plenary to approve the deliberation and final vote of the draft law transposing directives of the European Union from Royal Decree-Law 24/2021 of 2 November, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 votes with 14 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 318 with 14 votes in favour, 332 with 14 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u255	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary. [[Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo asked for the floor]] Yes, Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u256	Madam President, before the vote, the Bureau was struck by a computer error...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u257	Mrs. Gamarra, what article are you asking me for the floor on?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u258	Article 72. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u259	Mrs Gamarra, precisely because the Bureau is knowledgeable and has been able to analyse what you are going to ask me, and it is a technical question of the Bureau, of the decision of the Bureau, and not of the treatment of plenary, I will not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u260	Madam President... [[Protests.-Several Members: Tongo, tongo! What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-03-CD220203.u261	Thank you very much. The meeting rose. [[Applauds]] It was six and forty minutes in the afternoon.
