ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the debate in section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. For the presentation of the section, the name of the Government is the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks for being here at 9:00 in the morning. I know that yesterday was a long day for you, and today and tomorrow you will be, too; it does not cease to be the representation and work you have in this Parliament. I rise to this rostrum to defend section 25 of the general budgets of the State, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, which I have the honour to direct. At the beginning of this speech I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Finance, her entire team for the enormous work they are doing, for all that effort that will entail a very good general budget of the State for all the citizens, for all of us and all of us. [[Applauds]] Thank you, Mary Jesus, and thank you to the entire team of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service. And on a previous basis too, I would like to make a global assessment to tell you that these are very positive budgets for our country and for the citizens as a whole, first because they respond to the most pressing needs that Spain has at the moment, such as those derived from the economic and social effects that the war in Ukraine is having. Faced with these cuts, which you will all remember, from previous governments and from other models, such as that of the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Liz Truss, who inspired the People's Party for a season, we have chosen to strengthen the welfare, solidarity and social protection state. We have allocated more than EUR 266 billion to social security, the largest figure in history; 274,000, if we take European funds into account. And these budgets also address those needs that our country has in the short, medium and long term thanks largely to the European funds that the President of the Government fought successfully at that European Council in July 2020. [[Rumors]] That is why these budgets drive the digitisation of the economy, the modernization of the productive system and the fair ecological transition and also invest in science and innovation, which represent 23% more budget items than the budget we are in for 2018.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u3	Excuse me a second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. [[Pause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u4	Thank you, Madam President. He said that they are general state budgets very positive for our country because they are also aimed at providing stability and certainty for our country at a time like this, when it is most needed. That is why they are solvent and realistic budgets. We give certainty and we give security, for example, to pensioners, to those who are going to raise the pension what goes up life, what goes up the CPI. We also guarantee this by providing the Reserve Fund with EUR 3 billion, for the first time in ten years. This Government not only updates pensions, but also ensures the sustainability of the system with such contributions to the pension shelter. And we also give certainty to young people, we help them with scholarships and with facilities for rent. And we also give security, we give a safety net to the most vulnerable with minimum income or the electric bonus. That's why they're very good state budgets. And also for the middle classes, for example, with the gratuitousness of public transport or with a departure as important as that which is destined for scholarships for Spanish families. Thirdly, these general state budgets are very positive because they protect the social majority and deepen our welfare state. Social investment has no precedent in any general budget of the previous State: six out of every ten euros go to social investment. To give us an idea, it is 35% more than the budgets we find for 2018, when we begin to rule. And, of course, they strengthen public policies as basic as health or dependency policies. In short, they are the budgets that the country needs, lay the foundations for a modern, digital, sustainable and just country and give stability and certainty to citizens because they protect and guarantee them social well-being and personal well-being. That is why I wanted to start by setting this framework, the framework of the general budgets of the State and what they mean to our country. Sometimes we get involved in sterile debates, which are not of interest to the citizenry, but I think that this is precisely the one that interests them most, the one concerning the budgets that make life easier for the whole citizenry at a time of difficulty. Sitting this, I go on to detail to you the fundamental aspects of the budget of section 25, of the ministry that I have the honour to direct. You know that the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Democratic Courts and Memories is an eminently instrumental, non-investor ministry, and includes functions of support both to the Presidency of the Government and to the Head of State. Without including transfers to autonomous bodies - then I will refer to them in the last part of my speech - my ministry's budget is EUR 283 million, an increase of 50% over the current year's budget. And I'll explain to you why there's such a big increase. There are three aspects that justify this: the first is the Spanish Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which is to be held in the second half of next year; the second element is the adoption of the Law on Democratic Memory and the budget headings that are attached to this new norm, and, thirdly, the budgetary effort that we also dedicate to National Heritage as a result of the inauguration during the European Presidency of which it will be a new emblematic museum of Madrid, the Gallery of the Royal Collections. As you know, in the second half of 2023 we will have the European Presidency, Spain will welcome our European Union partners under it. And the planned expenditure is EUR 145 million, let me put it in context, because it is smaller than that of France, which has had the Presidency during the first half of this year and has been spent EUR 148 million - we budget 145-, and it is also smaller than that of the Czech Republic, which has the Presidency of the Union at this time, and it is also smaller than what Sweden has budgeted for its Presidency in the first half of 2023. In relative terms, which will be easier to understand, we are going to allocate three euros per inhabitant to the European Presidency, while the Czech Republic has allocated 8.67 euros per inhabitant and Sweden 11.11 euros per inhabitant. Therefore, of the EUR 145 million that the European Presidency is going to assume, 55% is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, and this explains to a great extent the increase in the budget. In order to get an idea of what the budget of the Ministry of the Presidency is increasing, nine out of every ten euros of the increase has been earmarked for the Presidency of the European Union. This amount will be allocated primarily to the Coordination Office for the Spanish Presidency of the European Union, which will depend on the Office of the Presidency of the Government, and also to all the costs obviously incurred by this Presidency, which are attached to both the Office of the Presidency of the Government and the Secretariat of the State of Communication. Secondly, with regard to the second reason why the Ministry's budget is being increased, we must fulfil the obligations of the recently adopted Democratic Memory Act, which must obviously have a development and a budgetary reflection. The memory item in 2023 amounts to 14 million euros, which means an increase of 17%, quite the opposite of with other previous governments, boasting of leaving that budget item at zero, boasting, by the way, of not complying with the law, which remains a tradition in the People's Party. [[Protests]] Failure to renew the General Council of the Judiciary is a violation of the law and the Constitution which is flagrant, deliberate, rebellious and absolutely obvious. [[Applauds]] And, therefore, I do not think this matter deserves much debate either. In addition, almost half of the budget for democratic memory is earmarked for financing the third annuality of the exhumation plan, EUR 6.35 million, in collaboration with almost all the autonomous communities, local authorities and a very large number of municipalities. The increase in the National Heritage budget, which is increased by 26%, to EUR 148 million, is also noteworthy, as I told you. This decision, this increase is the result of a project which, if I may say so, we are particularly proud of in the government, because we will be able to complete a project dating back almost twenty-five years, since in 1998 the one which, during this European Presidency, will finally be the opening of the Gallery of the Royal Collections, in the spring or next summer. It will be a very important new tourist reference for the city of Madrid, and I say to you that our idea is for the inauguration to take place during the European Presidency. This museum will be projected not only at national level, but also at international level because of the quality of the heritage that will be exposed in it, and therefore I believe that Madrid and Spain will have a new emblem, a new tourist reference to be attractive to foreign citizens. On the other hand, alongside the Ministry's activity, I would also like to highlight the programme for support to the Head of State, which will have a budget of €7.7 million, with an increase of 7%. It is basically explained by the reorganization being carried out as a result of the implementation of Royal Decree 297/2022, which we adopted in April this year. It involves the modernization of the structure of the Royal House and also the modernization of its functioning. The objective, as you know, is to strengthen the transparency, accountability, efficiency and exemplaryness of the Royal House, and to that end budgetary allocations are also allocated. Finally, the description of the budget section for which I am responsible ended by referring to the autonomous bodies that are attached to the ministry that I have the honour to lead: firstly, the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies, with a budget of 4.5 million euros, a minimum increase in the budget that they already have this year; secondly, the Centre for Sociological Research, which will have a budget of 12.66 million euros, an additional 14%, which obviously responds to the electoral processes that we face in 2023, and, thirdly, the budget of the BOE, which maintains its current budget and imports 32.12 million euros. I'm done. We are faced with budgets that give stability in our country. These are the third general budgets of the State that this Government is going to bring forward, with a very large majority of this House, so I take this opportunity to thank all the groups that finally support the general budgets of the State. Thanks to all of them and all of them. [[Applauds]] Perhaps it is time to remember how many other governments had to extend the general budgets of the State when they had the responsibility to govern our country and how many autonomous governments, basically led by conservative parties, have also chosen to extend the accounts during this year. We do not, we are ambitious, we want to transform the country and we believe that the fundamental tool is the approval of the general budgets of the annual state. In addition, it is shown that we are a government whose identity is agreement, dialogue, working with all, seeking points of balance and managing a Parliament like this, where there are different sensibilities but in which the majority of you agree on a common objective, which is to improve the lives of citizens thanks to a very positive general state budget for Spain. These accounts are, therefore, not just a few more budgets, but they are part of a country project, the country project that defends this country, and they are the fundamental tool for building; a country that says yes to continue to advance in front of those who always say no to everything; a country where coexistence is more friendly, where there are agreements, there are bridges of understanding and, therefore, leaves aside those confrontations that polarize society and lead nowhere; a European country, green, social, just, that bets on transition and digitalization, and also a country where politics is made within the Constitution and the law, unlike in other darker stages of our country. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support these general budgets of the State, because they will be improving the lives of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Bolaños. Generally speaking and before entering directly into the section of his ministry, these are budgets which have by no means accepted the principle that we have to lower regular expenditure in the administration, superfluous expenditure, slim down the administration, and it is precisely his ministry where this circumstance becomes more evident; it is more evident what spirit his Government has with regard to the processing of these budgets, which is to play with the money of others, not to sacrifice one in the administration with its eventual officials, its advisers, its salaries, with the pensioners, but to ask for efforts from others. And I denounced this yesterday in the Justice section with regard, for example, to the multi-effect income index, the IPREM, which is precisely the one we use for the granting of social aid, because the most progressive government in history, however, does not intend to bring this index into line with reality to understand that there are more people who are entitled to this aid from your government, not to mention the law of the ELA, which you still have in a drawer, without giving aid to the people who suffer. However, from a propagandistic point of view, we do receive the interprofessional minimum wage because it is paid by others, because it is paid by employers. And there's an increase in the number of places in the civil service. In short, I have no suspicion that I, as an official, do not find it wrong to actually strengthen public services. But behind this will be an assessment of workloads, an assessment of the needs of the public administration, an analysis of duplication with respect to the competences of the autonomous communities, and yet none of this exists. As Mr Espinosa de los Monteros in many of her questions to the Vice-President of the Government has told you a thousand times, you get out of the way that employment increases, but the job that increases is the public. How is private employment going to increase if they are raising the interprofessional minimum wage, if they are suffocating employers with tax increases, if they are raising social security contributions? Public employment always rises, and it does so from an electoralist perspective, from a political perspective, without any scientific study behind that says, for example, that we need more health care, and then we need health care, or we need more police, and then we need more police. No, it seems that what we need most is the advisors. But the truth is that when you rule and suddenly recognize that you need advisors - forgive me for telling you, with all due respect - that means recognizing your own disability, because, if you need to be so advised by thousands of people, you don't seem to have much power to govern. And this is what happens in your ministry. It happens in your ministry that, from 20 million euros in advisors, you pass to 23.4 million euros, and that is what, in general, happens throughout the administration. Obviously, Mr Garzón's - of course, you could already be a little more critical with your partner - cries out to heaven: 74% increase in current staff expenditure in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. It would be easy for me to say that you are increasing your court, that the court of King Bolaños increases with more advisors, but it is not true. The court that increases is King Sanchez's, because in his budget what there are are advisors to the president of the government, and you have decided that for this year there will be fifty more. For the 383 advisors the ministry has according to the latest figures that we have been able to locate, 80% of the budget is for the president of the government himself and the increase of the same supposes that they will have fifty more advisors for Sánchez. In the Committee on Budgets, when we ask about this subject, we are told what you said in your speech, that we have the Presidency of the European Union. Then you do not know how to carry on with the Presidency of the European Union if you have to increase the number of advisers. No, what you want is the longest and most expensive election campaign in the history of Spanish democracy, and for that you need another fifty people to tell you how well you do it, which is what the advisory or trusted staff do, those we popularly know in the Administration with the name of cabinetmakers, who are the ones who write to you the speeches, those who tell you how well you do it. And, secondly, you say that you are the holder of an instrumental ministry, except on the subject of democratic memory, indeed, as you yourself have indicated; that democratic memory with respect to which we agree - you and I have spoken on this subject, and also with the Secretary of State - because, in the end, it is the fulfilment of obligations imposed on us by the United Nations in that famous report by Paul de Greiff, for which it is necessary for Spain to comply with two fundamental questions: the exhumation of human remains and the resignation of the elements that may imply an elevation of the dictator Franco, who ruled this country for forty years, regrettably; well, but not to review the Spanish transition; not to investigate the crimes of Francoism until 1983, when Felipe González was already ruling; not to repeal the Amnesty Act; not to revoke the noble titles that the head of the State, the king of Spain preserved during the transition; not to break the scars, the forgiveness that one party to another was given after 1978. And with regard to these two issues, with which we agree, firstly, the exhumation of human remains - I quote here my colleague Paco Igea, who, being Vice-President of Castile and León, precisely solved this problem in a town hall in Villadangos - and secondly, the resignation of the Cuelgamuros valley, have a frankly scarce budget. You tell me you have 6.5 million that you are going to dedicate to exhumation of human remains. However, it has been estimated that the exhumation of human remains in the Cuelgamuros Valley requires more than €57 million.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u7	Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u8	So you will already tell me how you will comply with those international obligations that Spain has to ensure our good international name. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u10	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, and the fact is that, if I may, I too would like to make a general reflection on the issue of budgets. You know that PeCAT is committed to exercising politics until the end, that is, I do not think that we are the preferred partner of the government, although the relationship is of constant work and it is true that, in this context of Spanish politics, we have decided to execute as much as possible the possibilities of agreements, the possibilities of seeking improvements and those that imply a better status for Catalonia and the Catalans. It is in this context that, within the framework of the general budgets of the State for 2023 that we are dealing with, yesterday we announced our favourable position, and, as you know, this is also based on a large pillar, the result of that negotiation, such as drawing up questions relating to research, culture, sports or social action, pillars or pillars of a political action that ultimately wants to give impetus to Catalonia and satisfy the territorial needs of Catalonia and the Catalans. And it is in this context that I will also be able to focus on the Barcelona city, my constituency, in this intervention. The truth, to transfer to these great pillars that I indicated to you, is that improvements such as those relating to the Ryder Cup, the America Cup or the Congress of the International Union of Architects place Catalonia and Barcelona in the world. And the improvements that are achieved through contributions and endowments to historical associative entities also means giving better associative life to these realities. At the same time, there are also improvements and contributions in the field of the Institute of Science and Technology, opportunities and work within the framework of placing Barcelona in the world, as well as the support and donations to entities such as the Casa de Misericòrdia Foundation and the Fundació Roure, and programmes such as the one of overcoming, which work and are attentive to young people at risk of social exclusion. I show this photograph because in the end these results, these pillars are the ones that justify our support for these budgets, a support that, as I said before, has to be read in any case in terms of political action, to implement the policy to the maximum, to improve the situation in Catalonia and, above all, to improve the lives of Catalans. In this scenario, in this pragmatism and in this progress, Mr Bolaños, it is where we have found ourselves in some of the laws that have been processed so far and it is where I think we converge in these general budgets of the State now, without too much noise but with a lot of work and without ceasing in the attempt to pull forward. Finally, I would give a little thought to the fact that you are also responsible for the relationship with the General Courts. With reference to the approval and execution of the general budgets of the State, we know that we also usually say that our responsibility as Congress is to approve the budgets, to adopt a law. However, the implementation of these budgets is the responsibility of the Government, and a fluid relationship between the Government and the General Courts also requires the Government to implement the budgets that have been approved as a law, which is where we normally have some problems or where there is a marked lack of implementation of them, so that, in these relations of the Government with the General Courts, the implementation of this law will have to be followed. On the other hand, taking advantage of the opportunity that you are here and to the extent that you are also responsible for this relationship with the General Courts, let me make another little reflection on the pace of law-making. Some of the stories that go on in the last few days in relation to laws may have to do with the pace at which laws are worked, passed or processed in the General Courts. Perhaps more calmly and less eagerly in adopting some texts would not happen some of the episodes we have experienced in the last few days. In the responsibility that may lie with you - I think you know perfectly well what we are talking about - I call on you to ensure that this good understanding that we have in the area of budgets and that this comes forward can be repeated in what is left of the legislature, in the laws that remain in this legislature, so that better laws can emerge from this Congress of Deputies, from the General Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u12	Mr President, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, what does the increase in Section 25 by 65%, that is to say the increase from 354 million to 583 million, have to do with the protection of the middle and working class? And how does the 160% increase in the budget of the Presidency of the Government contribute to the fight against inequality? What about the increase in information coverage for the president of the government? Where's that going? Social justice? Or are you going to improve the photoshop to fix the photos of the President of the Government at international summits and stop being ridiculous? Or are you going to advertise your pact to eliminate sedition in the Christmas lottery, for example? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Bolaños, do you call this increase in propaganda spending a strengthening of the welfare state? And what do you call the budget increase in senior positions and advisors? What does that call it? You call it a progressive agenda? Is the progressive agenda in front of the neoliberal agenda that you are talking about so much about increasing spending on senior officials and advisors on Mariano Rajoy's last government by 148%? [[Applauds]] Mr Bolaños, you said a year ago - I open quotes -: 'before, during and after - I am quoting - what I am is socialist and, when it comes to improving people's living conditions, I am the first to campaign' - clorocomillas. Obviously, if you were referring to the living conditions of the President of the Government and to your entire career of advisors, you have achieved your goal. [[Applauds]] And you have also achieved, Mr Bolaños, the goal you sought with the Democratic Memory Act, because you wanted - and you have succeeded - to eliminate from a pen half of the totalitarianisms that have existed in history and to proclaim the historical lie that the only totalitarianisms are the fascists. And in that context Postman goes out to make propaganda of the sickle and the hammer, of a totalitarian symbol, and here a member of the United We can go out yesterday to wear with pride a t-shirt with the totalitarian symbol of the sickle and the hammer. [[Applauds.-Mr. Mayor Perales utters words that are not perceived.]] All of you, and it seems that you too, are very proud of a symbol representing communist totalitarianisms, Mr Bolaños, and there were one hundred million dead by those totalitarianisms. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!- Mr Mayor Perales speaks words that are not perceived.]] What about the increase in the CIS budget, Mr. Bolaños? What's he going to do? You said to the electoral processes. Is it not rather for the manipulation of electoral processes? How many more manipulations are going to shut down with this increase in the CIS budget? I will give you a single calculation, Mr Bolaños, which comes from a newspaper very close to you, from El País, which I do not think you call ultra-right, which Kiko Llaneras, expert in surveys of the daily El País, made with the data of the CIS - of his CIS - of October. In October, the CIS gained four points of advantage from the PSOE over the PP. Wow, like always! Do you know how much El País was going on, that is, Kiko Llaneras? Four points of PP advantage over the PSOE. This is a small example of so many manipulations. [[Applauds]] Mr Bolaños, there is a more serious lie than that of the polls, because it is linked to a democratically entrepreneurship decision that has consequences in the constitutional order and I mean, of course, the pact that you have made with the coups to eliminate the crime of sedition, to eliminate the crime for which you were convicted, what is the pact that supports these budgets. And to justify it, Mr Bolaños, you yourself, along with Pedro Sánchez, have no scrupulousness in lying and say, you have said, that they do so to Europeanize the Penal Code, because, in your opinion, sedition is less punished in other countries, and that is a lie. Or are you going to tell the judges of the Supreme Court - the Secretary of State for Equality has already done so with the judges - to study further and to be informed? Because it is the judges of the Supreme Court who have denied you and the Government. So has the majority of the Professional Association of the Judiciary, and I don't think you're going to tell them to study any more, are you? [[Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Bolaños García, makes negative gestures]] Because, Mr Bolaños, you have set up a perfect disinformation campaign to try to convince the Spaniards that you have not agreed with Oriol Junqueras, the independence leader sentenced to thirteen years in prison for sedition and embezzlement. You have pardoned him and now you are eliminating the crime of sedition and you are also going to eliminate the crime of embezzlement, Mr. Bolaños, in the next few days or weeks. And above you have the cynicism to say how much crime is going to lower now that you are going to eliminate the crime! And how good Catalonia will be for those who want to make another blow! In fact, Junqueras has already said that it will lower the price of trying again. Mr. Bolaños, I will explain to you the pact you have made with Oriol Junqueras with a few words from Fernando Savater in a recent article - I open quotes -: 'It is as if in the fiercest years of the Our Thing the Italian anti-mafia laws had been suppressed or sweetened at the request of Totò Riina. Thus the tension in Sicily will be eased, the men of peace would say' - close quotes -. Exactly what you are saying, Mr Bolaños, about Catalonia. [[Applauds]] You said that we have a country project and that we are going to transform this country.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u13	Mrs. Uriarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u14	Yes, they have the country project that they have agreed with Esquerra Republicana, with Mr Junqueras and yesterday also with Bildu. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Uriarte. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that listening to Mr Bolaños seemed like we were at a meeting of the Socialist Party, which does not surprise me given the ministry he represents and seeing the numbers of the same. It has been acknowledged that his ministry is well prepared for the upcoming electoral processes, as he has acknowledged. You also say: we have raised the CIS budget. I imagine they will give everything they want to Mr Tezanos, because they are delighted with him and, every time they have some small moral problem, they take him for a walk, without taking into account that he is obviously a prominent member of the Socialist Party and that he does not cut a hair in doing electoral advertising with the money of all the Spaniards and that is the serious issue. With regard to democratic memory, you are sectarians and revanchists, and I will give you a concrete example. You have taken the medal from work to an illustrious Navarro, Felix Huarte, an entrepreneur, an entrepreneur and patrons whom the whole of Navarra society - except those who support you - has valued this over the years, and you have also valued it in these days for that affront you have made by taking the gold medal from work. This person received the gold medal of Navarra in 2014, along with other people who made possible the transformation of Navarra. And on that tour that Vice President Díaz is doing for Spain to compete with Podemos, it occurred to him to say that Navarra was an example of industrialization. And he has the face to say that days after taking the gold medal from one of the people who contributed most to Navarra being industrialized as it is today! But not only is that said, but this person is also accused of having blood on his hands. Who are you to qualify people like that without considering what you have done or what you have stopped doing in your past? Only by generating employment, industry and progress at the time of the Franco dictator can a person be accused of having his hands stained with blood and of being a Franco? Is that why a gold medal was taken? You are sectarians and revanchists. That's what they are. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX]] But look, taking advantage that you are the grinder of the great covenants that are made, I will tell you that the pact you made yesterday with Bildu is a shame, an ignominy and is absolutely outrageous. And I'm gonna tell you why. With Bildu Batasuna nothing can be agreed, but to agree with Bildu Batasuna something that has to do with the Civil Guard is an insult to the Civil Guard and the rest of the Spaniards. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX]] An insult! Those who pointed out, those who said, those who pointed, those who fired, those who flew buses full of young civilian guards, those who flew Civil Guard barracks with children inside and those who set up banners to kill civilian guards, you, those who applauded, who enjoyed, who have not condemned and who continue to say that it was worth it, give them the key to leaving Navarre. [[Mr Sánchez del Real: Congratulations!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX, some of them standing.- Mr President, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Bolaños García: What a shame!]] That's an indignity! [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX.- The Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Bolaños García: What a shame!]] That's doing miserable politics. That's having crossed all the lines. That is a shame and an affront to all the Spaniards who gave their lives for Spain, for freedom and why we are all here. And how do you pay them? Saying Bildu Batasuna can throw them out. That's a terrible shame. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Bravo!- Mr Sánchez del Real: Long live the Civil Guard!- Various Members: Long live!- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX, stood up.- The Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Bolaños García: What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u17	Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u18	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for your intervention. Yesterday we were from 9:00 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. here in Congress, with this budget debate, one of the most important weeks we have had this year, and the truth is that I had not heard of the enormous concern that Mr. Feijoo had that we were not yesterday the Members of Parliament of Podemos in the Senate. [[Applauds]] I wanted to tell you not to worry because we were here in Congress together with the other Members of the People's Party and the Ministers and Ministers giving the appropriate explanations. Don't worry if we weren't there. Whenever he comes to visit us in Congress, since we have the bad habit of working here. It is good news that this budget is increasing by 108 million and the main expenditure is distributed under four headings. The first, in that of the Spanish Presidency to the European Union, as the Minister has said; the second, in that of the Law on Democratic Memory; the third, in that of transfers to National Heritage because it opens the gallery of real collections, and the fourth, in that of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience with the European Union in this last part of the legislature. In the departure of the Democratic Memory Act there is an increase of 17.95 % in Chapter 2 for technical work, census, departures and acquisition of archives, another for the state memory centre and a new chapter 7 of transfers to support autonomous initiatives, which is also a very important issue. I also want to highlight the opening of large pits - two touch me very closely - such as that of Jaén, Huelva and also that of Ciudad Real and that of Córdoba, which has already been executed and paid 100 percent of the budget. With regard to the High Commissioner against Child Poverty, we would like to point out that half of the 34 pilot projects are for children; the increase in minimum living income by 15%, which is also updated with the CPI next year; the increase in coverage also with new items such as the deduction by working mothers, improvements in unemployment benefit, labour yields or the rise in Iprem, as well as how it affects families in poverty and that there is more ease in access to aid. Also noteworthy are the games in education, the reduction of educational inequality, the historical increase in the number of scholarships and the programs of reinforcement of the places from 0 to 3 years. Also in housing, electrical and thermal bonds, in addition to making rents more accessible and increasing the social protection of housing. Therefore, we have to say that from 2018 until now there has been a 200 % increase in all these issues. The PP spokesman said that these budgets were not intended for social justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, please do not say that, because you are the first to abstain or not to vote in favour of the social measures that have been presented here all these years. For us it is excellent news that the budget for the Democratic Memory Act is increased by 17.95% to comply with this law and that the commitment to the great pits of Andalusia by this government is finally fulfilled. We passed the Democratic Memory Act a month ago, and these budgets increase the budget line to be able to implement them. We are on the right track, and I say this because we have taken from the Basilica of Macarena Queipo de Llano and one of his main collaborators in the Andalusian repression, the war auditor Francisco Bohórquez. I remember the beating general had more than 45,000 lives taken from Andalusia. So, as Paqui Maqueda said that night of November 3 last, when they took out their remains, honor and glory to the victims of Francoism. With regard to this, the spokesman for the PP said that the stamp of the centenary of the Communist Party of Spain is a totalitarian symbol. I will tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it was the Communist Party of Spain that supported the Spanish Constitution, while five members of the People's Alliance voted against it. [[Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u19	Mr. Gutierrez, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u20	They voted against you. You, the People's Party, the heirs of the People's Alliance, voted against it. Are they the constitutionalists? No, no, It was the Communist Party of Spain that supported the Constitution, and today it is sitting here in this Chamber, while Francoism, the Falange and those anti-democratic parties are not sitting in this Chamber. In any case, the heirs of Francoism will be seated, which we regret. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u21	Quiet, please! Mr. VELARDE GÓMEZ: In addition to this - and I am going to finish - last Friday my Confederal group, in order to continue the work that has to be done under the Democratic Memory Act, organized a day in Congress with the relatives of the victims of the Transition and the Almería case, because this law finally comes to recognize the victims of a period of our history that was not exemplary because there was repression, torture, murder and impunity already very much entered democracy, and that cannot be forgotten. That is why we once again call for compliance with that committee of experts so that all victims, including those of the Transition, can be recognized and the truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition can be respected after almost half a century. We are on the right track, but, as I say, it cannot happen again what happened last weekend in Madrid: fascist greetings, live to Franco and Primo de Rivera, Francoist flags, soundtracks and the Cara al Sol, the anthem of the Falange. It is a shame to have to have seen these images of the exaltation of Francoism and the Franco dictatorship in Madrid on the occasion of November 20. Many people have questioned the effectiveness of this law precisely because of this and I am not surprised.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u22	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u23	That is why it must be said loud and clear: this law expressly prohibits the exaltation of the dictatorship and provides for sanctions of up to 150,000 euros, without prejudice to other responsibilities that they may incur. That is why, Mr Bolaños, we ask your Presidency to take letters on the matter, to have the certificates and the images and to open sanctioning files to all the callers of the demonstrations in tribute to the dictator. [[Rumors]] It's very serious what's been going on this weekend and it can't happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u25	Thank you, Madam President. The consolidated budget of the Ministry of Presidency will increase from 354 million to 481 million, an increase of more than a third. It is expected in a Government that considers increasing public spending to be an end in itself, but it is a disaster for a country that has broken an absolute historical record of public debt. We have already overcome the billion-and-a-half-euro barrier, which is equivalent to 117% of our GDP and is going to be an unbearable slab that we will leave on our children's shoulders. The government presidency expenditure line is multiplied by 2.7; from 51 million to 134 million. This is partly related to the increase in staff expenditure, from 34 million to 38 million, and also to the increase in the number of personal advisers appointed to the finger by the President of the Government, from 441 million to 483 million. We have the world's best-advised President of the Government. It is true that a large part of this increase - almost tripled - in the government's Presidency budget is related to the Presidency of the European Union, which will be held in Spain in 2023. We hope that this presidency will be exercised with dignity, but now we are very much afraid that the President of the Government wants to turn the occasion into a platform for his personal promotion in view of his possible landing in an international body when he has lost the next elections, and this is something we cannot afford. We cannot allow European milestones to be converted into an international launch ramp for Mr Sánchez or into a stage for the representation of his personal ideological obsessions about feminism, climate fanaticism or democratic memory, because in the departure for the European Presidency there is a specific section on the dissemination of the principles of democratic memory. We are going to give memory lessons to our European partners. Since we are talking about this, the total budget for democratic memory policies rises from 11.8 million to 13.9 million euros, i.e. almost 14 million invested in falsification of history, in demonisation of the conservative Spanish media and in reopening of the wounds that were already closed. [[Applauds]] Because, indeed, socialist gentlemen, you are succeeding in rekindling hatred in the great-grandchildren of the generation who lived the Civil War that your great-grandparents and grandparents had buried many decades ago. The story you want to record in the minds of young people is a Manichean fable and the proof is that you hide the crimes of which you consider your side. In the fifty-five pages of the endless Law on Democratic Memory there is not a single word, nor a single sentence, devoted to the approximately 60,000 people killed on the left between 1936 and 1939. By erasing them from memory you are killing them morally for the second time. [[Applauds]] By the way, these crimes took place under the authority of two presidents of the socialist government: Francisco Largo Caballero and Juan Negrin. The first of them retains his proud statue in New Ministries, while you dig up Queipo de Llano and prepare to dig up José Antonio Primo de Rivera, who was murdered by the left after a farce trial. [[Applauds]] By the way, many of these deaths took place under the symbol of the sickle and the hammer that the deputy of Podemos proudly displayed in this rostrum yesterday and again the deputy of Podemos has once again claimed the Communist Party a moment ago. As among the activities generously financed by the law of memory is the monumentalization of what you call places of memory, I will make you, Minister, some constructive proposals. For example, they declare a place of memory Paracellos del Jarama, where 5,000 people were killed on the left. [[Applauds]] The Model Prison was declared a memorial site, where hundreds of political prisoners were killed, including several ministers and deputies of the Republic. They erected a monolith in the Pías de Barbastro Schools, where the fifty-one Claretian seminarians were locked up and then shot and erected a similar monument in Caspe, where they ran the same ninety-one people for the crime of being Catholic. [[shows a photograph]] By the way, these crimes were ordered by the Regional Defence Council of Aragon, an anarchist body in which the famous assassin and assailant of international banks reigned Buenaventura Durruti, whom Don Gabriel Rufián openly claimed yesterday on Twitter. Dismantle the shameful monument to Durruti that exists in Leon. They dismantle the numerous monuments to Lluís Companies, whose Central Committee of Anti-Fascist Militias of Catalonia was responsible for some 8,000 executions in Catalonia of the Popular Front. [[Applauds]] And they declare as a memorial the Cape Major of Santander, that 40-metre-high cliff, from where the militiamen took so many victims. But these budgets still surprise us, it is a departure for - and I quote textually - the creation of a technical commission for the study of cases of human rights violations against people for their struggle for the consolidation of democracy, fundamental rights and democratic values between the entry into force of the 1978 Constitution and 31 December 1983. Let us be clear, we are talking about investigating alleged police abuses committed in the fight against ETA and GRAPO in those years of the Transition. This means that the government seems to consider that the ETA and GRAPO were fighting for democracy and human rights and not for the secession of the Vasco Country and the establishment there of a communist dictatorship. Such was the democratic zeal of the ETA that killed 383 people between 1976 and 1983, including socialist militant Germán González, killed in 1979 in Villarreal de Urrechu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u26	Mr. Contreras, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u27	By extending the period of application of the law of memory until 1983, you are buying the historical account of Podemos and Bildu, according to which there was no real transition and therefore we do not yet have a true democracy. True democracy, presumably, will come when we abolish the monarchy and replace it with a confederal republic of Iberian nations with the right of self-determination. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Contreras. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Elorza González.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u29	Madam President, two preliminary assessments. The first for the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party: there is no intervention with a more miserable and manipulative content like that which you have done. I am sorry to tell you this for the respect I have for you, but I did not like your intervention. [[Several honourable Members: Hala!-Applause.- Rumours]] Secondly, after what I heard here yesterday and also today, as a personal friend of Ernest Lluch, I feel with the freedom and the right to say that Ernest Lluch would be next door and would be supporting this coalition government without any doubt, knowing his thinking and knowing perfectly well the ideas for which he was fighting. [[Applauds]] But let's go to the subject, let's go to the budget. I would like to go into the sense of the budget quoting from the entrance a few words from an excellent person, Pepe Mujica: I belong to a generation that wanted to change the world; I was crushed, crushed, sprayed, but I still dream that it is worth fighting in politics so that the simple people can live a little better and with a greater sense of equality and dignity. These are the words of José Mujica. His wise reflection helps us to understand the meaning of the general budgets on a planet and in a country on the brink of the crisis, on the brink of the abyss; hence the general budgets of the State for this year. Surely, they will not be perfect accounts and will have even their weak flanks, but they must be considered globally in a macroeconomic scenario as volatile as this, dragging a terrible pandemic, in the midst of a war in Europe with a direct impact on inflation, suffering a climate emergency with all its conditionings and a very serious energy crisis. In that scenario, in that context, it is where these budgets need to be assessed. In this scenario these are useful, fair and truly ambitious budgets not only for the citizenry, but also for the future, the transformation and modernization of Spain. Budgets respond to a huge vital uncertainty that causes anxiety in the citizenry and that causes fear in people, that they are in need of stability, as the minister has said, and that they also need to regain and strengthen their confidence in politics. From this philosophy, what should be asked of them for public accounts? That's the point. Well, in the face of inflation, in the face of the risks of a recession that is already going on in other countries - for example, in Germany - in the face of problems in the supply of raw materials or the increase in energy - nothing attributable to this government - these accounts seek to bring politics closer to citizenship, seek to bring concrete solutions to the problems of everyday life, and they do so from greater fiscal justice and also -however not! - from a more redistributive policy of wealth. They are budgets that support the objective of ensuring the dignity of people's lives, so simple; ensuring the dignity of their living conditions, the dignity of their employment, the dignity of their future with pensions, the dignity of guarantees of work and project of life for young people.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u30	Mr. Elorza, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u31	Budgets cover something fundamental to the left, such as public policies, which are the ones that can defend and guarantee public services and make a social state of law stronger. The coalition government - it has finished - elaborates these accounts with concrete commitments to defend and protect the quality and dignity of life of the entire Spanish citizen. Therefore, support is well deserved. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorza. Mr Gutiérrez Salinas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. After forty-four years Spanish democracy reached its maturity. [[Laughter]] We cannot laugh in a Chamber like this, which is where the popular sovereignty of this country resides. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker. The recent adoption of the Democratic Memory Act has led to the completion of the transition process. This government presided over by Pedro Sánchez has been courageously exhumanized the remains of Franco and resignating the Valley of Cuelgamuros to become a place of democratic memory and not a place to advocate fascism. As a democratic state, we could not consent to this situation, nor could we maintain the remains of Queipo de Llano, sadly nicknamed the Carnicero de Sevilla, in the Macarena. I want to make a point. Mr. Adanero - I don't see you -, every time you come up here, you go up to sow hatred and discord. [[Applauds]] We sow harmony and well-being. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mrs Uriarte, I would also like to make a comment. Mr Adolfo Suárez, nine days after disbanding the Movement, legalized the Communist Party in a rally of consensus and agreement. You are breaking that spirit of the Transition by being more radical every day and sowing more and more hatred in this country. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the determination of this Government, Spanish democracy has been given dignity, which, unfortunately, you do not do, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. [[Several Members: Come on now!Hala!-Rumors]] But political commitments are not worth anything if they are not translated into budget items and I can proudly say that in the area of democratic memory the general state budgets for 2023 envisage a very large increase, almost 20%. With this we will be able to continue with the four-year exhumation plan, we will be able to boost the National DNA Bank, we will be able to draw up a general census of victims and we will be able to carry out many more actions that demonstrate this Government's commitment to democratic memory. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if you want to be useful and credible to the citizens of this country, make proposals, because so far we have not seen any proposals on their part. On the contrary, his model has always been to vote against all the advances - to vote against the pensioners, to vote against the workers -, always against the workers. And, as they cannot explain, they try to divert attention from debates that are of no interest to anyone. They are unique when it comes to entangle and generate rift, even among yourselves; if not, let them tell Mr. Feijóo and Mrs. Ayuso, who are embroiled in a fight. By the way, Mr. Feijóo yesterday grossly wrecked in the Senate; everyone saw him. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u34	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u35	That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of these general state budgets, because they are the tool to continue this process of modernization...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u36	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u37	... and strengthening the welfare state, putting middle and working classes at the centre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u39	Thank you, Madam President. I know it is not customary to take the floor in this procedure, but I rebel against the demagogy and the lie that has been poured into this rostrum today, with a regrettable, absolutely regrettable intervention, using the victims of ETA. [[applause]] [[applause.-Strong rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u40	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u41	I will tell you clearly: the terrorist band ETA was defeated by Spanish democracy, each and every one of us here. [[Greetings.-Lady De Luna Tobarra: The Civil Guard!-Rumors]] And especially the president Zapatero, the minister Rubalcaba and the lehendakari Patxi López - who was sitting there - with a special protagonist. [[applause.-Several Members: Come on now!-Rumors]] It was a victory of democracy against terrorism and totalitarianism. [[Applause from the Socialist and Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, Members of the European Parliament and Members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, Members of the European Parliament and Members of the European Parliament]] The law on victims adopted by the Zapatero Government in 2011 with a very broad consensus still today continues to uphold the dignity of the victims of terrorism. And you come here to demagogy and lie in an absolutely blatant way in this rostrum. [[Mr. Mateu Istúriz: Lie!- Rumors]] I'm going to give you some information on the subject that's been put on the table. Traffic competition has been transferred to an autonomous community as it is transferred to other autonomous communities. Do you know what the first time this happened? In 2000, Mr Aznar was President of the Government. And he agreed with UPN, the party of the transfugue that has gone up to this rostrum to pour lies, falsehoods and demagogy. [[cheers and cheers.-Strong rumors]] In the year 2000 was a transfer of competences and today is something very different? I understand that you are begging for a position on the extreme right electoral lists on the extreme right, in which it is. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] The People's Party and VOX are perfectly indistinguishable and some of them will give you shelter, but do not come here to lie in such an absolutely unacceptable way. I'm going to tell you something from the Civil Guard in Navarre that you don't know if you know or directly hide. During Mr. Rajoy's government, do you know how many Civil Guard officers were lost in Navarre? It was three hundred and thirty. Do you know what happened with our government, with the government of Pedro Sánchez? That there are almost a hundred more agents of the Civil Guard in Navarre. [[Applauds]] This is the reality. Therefore, when you come here to say that you have been expelled to the Navarra Civil Guard it is false, and I say it so that it is written in the Journal of Sessions for your shame. It's fake, absolutely fake. I'll tell you more. I ask you and all the other Members of this House to stop using the victims of ETA, because all they show is that you have no country project for Spain or for the well-being of our fellow citizens, when you are still clinging to a terrorist gang that democracy defeated more than ten years ago. That is what shows that you continue to embrace the victims by trying to use them in an unacceptable way. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u43	No organization, no political party, has sacrificed as much as the Socialist Party is fighting, first, against Francoist totalitarianism and, then, against terrorism etarra; none. Therefore, lessons to the Socialist Party, zero, none. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members and Members of the Parliamentary Group, on the ground]] We are proud to have always fought for freedoms and against totalitarianism in the dictatorship and terrorism. We are proud. And I'm telling you more, we've done it for over a hundred and forty years and we're going to keep doing it for another hundred and forty years. When no one remembers the improvisations, the demagogy and the lie that some Members pour into this rostrum, the Socialist Party will continue to fight for the freedoms and progress of the majority. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr García Adanero calls for the floor]] Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u45	I ask for the floor in accordance with article 71 or article 73; I do not remember, one of the two. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u46	Quiet, please. Mr. García Adanero, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u47	All I want to say is that if Mr. Bolaños feels comfortable kneeling before those who applauded the murders is his problem, not mine. [[Applauds]] As for transfuguism, I'm proud. I am not offended by the fact that I voted for what I voted for precisely in order not to support such unworthy things as the Spanish Government did yesterday by negotiating with Bildu; not by agreeing with competences, but by agreeing with Bildu, who still does not condemn terrorism. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u48	Minister. [[Denial.- Rumours]] Quiet, please. Mr. Mateu, silence. [[Mr. Mateu Istúriz: But if he was talking!-Rumors]] Mr. Mateu, you called the order. We move on to the debate in section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. For the section presentation, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u49	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The consensus that democratic memory should arouse in this country... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u50	Mrs. De Luna, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u51	... I think it is also fundamental, capital, when we talk about how to invest in modernization and in generating opportunities in the present and in the future. So I go up to this rostrum to present and defend the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for 2023 regarding section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, its autonomous agencies and State water societies. I want to do this from the point of view of what we have agreed in the Commission's handling of the amendments that have already been voted on, and I want to do so by stressing that we are continuing to make progress in the consolidation of increasingly greener budgets. These are not only because they constitute a determined policy of this Government, but also because, from the very beginning, we have wanted to highlight it, underlining the priorities established in the field of environmental policies for the transformation of our energy system, the fight against depopulation and the consolidation of equality and the narrowing of the great gap that our country has been experiencing for decades in terms of social and territorial cohesion. We do so with the government's commitment, but we do so also with the conviction that it is the response consistent with the construction of the project and European values. I would say that it has taken us a long time to achieve this presence and this monitoring capacity of the green component in all income and expenditure policies, consolidating the cross-cutting integration of an ecological transition that must be fair and paying attention to those who, at the time of the transformation, may be affected by the profound changes we are experiencing. More than 30% of the total is earmarked for this purpose, and I am referring to the budget of all the ministerial departments once a green budgeting exercise has been carried out for the first time in line with the commitments that you supported when passing the climate change law. We therefore undertake a first-class challenge for Spain and Spain with the world. We tackle the climate crisis, we preserve biodiversity - the most important in Europe - and we innovate in decarbonisation and the fight against pollution; an action backed by 11% more of the budget in 2023 than in 2022, considering both the national budget and the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. With these budgets we realize the response to environmental challenges and their social implications, for which I thank all the groups that accompany us in the Climate Alliance for a prosperity within the environmental limits; an alliance that seeks to transform our productive system and our consumption patterns and promote values that are increasingly compatible with inclusive prosperity, as I said before, for the benefit of people. In fact, we are defending health protection. It is impossible to separate the quality and access to drinking water, waste management, air and soil quality or the good state of biodiversity from human health issues. It is important to emphasize that we always seek to make it compatible with the preservation of nature and ecosystems, which are key to economic development. On a dead planet there is no economic activity, no employment, no impulse to any productive sector. We seek to complement our policies with early adaptation to the clear and modulable effects of climate change, particularly in the approach to water, coastal and sea protection, environment and energy policies. We also want to strengthen our monitoring and observation capacity, not only of the data provided by nature and the climate system, but also to facilitate knowledge and assessment of the impact of the measures being promoted, because it is clear that the extreme weather phenomena we experience more and more often force us to work on scenarios outside the traditional historical average in our country. Similarly, the degree of leadership of new technologies applied to better management, better protection and better preservation of the environment in all their approaches is increasing. An example of this is the adoption of a PERTE for the digitisation of the water cycle. Moreover, in view of the increase in geopolitical and market tensions, special credits are allocated and specific policies are articulated to provide more security against energy prices, which affect in an unorthodox manner the most vulnerable households and the entire productive fabric with measures that contribute to a structural strengthening of energy security and people's security. That is why we are increasing protection for vulnerable consumers, be they households and businesses; we are strengthening strategic and energy autonomy with credits that accelerate the structural changes in our system already under way in the context of the strategic framework for energy and climate, and we are maximizing and creating new infrastructures that will allow for a meaningful exercise of solidarity with the whole of Europe. In short, these are budgets that respond to the challenges of the Ukrainian war scene, which has raised the urgent need to accelerate the transformation of our system, ensuring a much fairer social vision. The budget for the Ministry, without the autonomous agencies and other affiliated entities, amounts to EUR 11,313 million, 11% more than in 2022, of which 6316 correspond to resources from the national budget and 4998 correspond to resources from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The allocation of the recovery plan follows the planned three-year schedule and increases from 2022 by 14.1 per cent. It is a budget that allows us to continue to face the great challenges of the country we face. The first is that of the energy transition, a transformation in favour of clean energy at stable, predictable and affordable prices; a scenario in which we have been working since 2018 but which over the past year has achieved a special protagonist. Our well-being, that of families, the competitiveness and the continuity of economic activity explain the commitment for your social support and the impulse to the transformation of the energy system in 2022, as they also do in 2023. The Energy State Secretariat has €4590 million, 70 million more than in 2022, in the share of the regular budget not financed by the recovery plan. Apart from the contribution we must make to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, the budget is increasing by 30.4% to EUR 1076 million. With regard to the recovery plan, the budget amounts to 2950 million, allowing to complete the 20212023 planning that we had marked and that already generates positive impacts on the territory. This budget allows us to deploy the policies that we have been defining to accelerate the energy transition as a central and key element to reduce external energy dependence, reduce negative impacts on our trade balance and replace harmful fossil fuels for our imported health - and therefore in a scenario of high prices, which impoverish us every day - with renewable, indigenous and reliable resources, simultaneously reinforcing consumer protection measures - especially, as I pointed out, the most vulnerable - and strongly supporting our industrial fabric. As in 2022, we have sufficient flexibility to incorporate the Government's support for measures to reduce energy costs, thus facilitating their sustainability for families, businesses and industries. I would like to highlight, among other rules, the recent effort made with the last royal decree law, which involves providing 3000 million euros to the TUR 4 tariff, the neighborhood; 187 million for the flexibility of industrial gas contracts, and 225 million euros additional for the thermal social bonus. Therefore, I would like to highlight the effort to cover much of the year 2023, helping in this context of rising prices to facilitate the thermal comfort of our homes. We continue to believe that we are part of the global vanguard of future technologies - renewable energy, green hydrogen and digitalisation of our networks -, also seeking to attract employment, strategic autonomy and innovation in our industrial sectors and value chains. The budget includes major transfers amounting to more than EUR 4 billion, of which EUR 3514 correspond to transfers to the National Commission on Markets and Competition for the energy system, EUR 2862 to finance electricity market costs from CO2 and other green taxes and EUR 646 million for energy extra-cost in island territories. In addition, $6.3 million is budgeted as a transfer to the Commission to pay for underground storage. The key element of the energy transition is, however, the implementation of the development of renewable energies, ensuring their social and environmental sustainability in the territory. In these budgets we do not forget to mitigate the impact for the most vulnerable. We expect EUR 259 million for the thermal social bond, which represents an increase of 102 million more than in the initial budget of 2022, i.e. almost 65% more than last year. We pay particular attention to leading a fair transition and, therefore, the budget managed by the Institute for the Just Transition will grow this year to EUR 501 million and 169 million in transfers from the recovery plan, of which 66 million will be earmarked for employment-generating projects, 139 million for the closure plan for private and public enterprises and 95 million for agreements with autonomous communities to encourage alternative activity in these regions. [[Rumors.-Pause]] Thank you. They are credits with an obvious social dimension. They promote alternative economic projects and developments in areas very affected by changes and transformation towards a new energy model, because they had traditionally been linked to coal and deserve an alternative, a different expectation. The 169 million of the recovery plan for just transition will be used for environmental restoration, development of an infrastructure plan, implementation of energy R & D+i projects and implementation of a support plan for job qualification and integration. In addition, the Fair Transition Fund will be funded with 41 million from the European Union fund for this purpose. Finally, in relation to the recovery plan, in 2023 we want to continue the programmes with the greatest demand so far and we have activated the last instruments we were designing in these months. This includes €780 million for the innovative renewable energy development plan integrated into building and production processes. This will allow us to continue to reduce our energy dependence, giving alternatives to businesses and households to replace conventional electricity needs, such as air conditioning or even process heat, with renewable solutions. The same component also includes another €25 million for sustainable energy on islands, continuing important work carried out jointly with the autonomous governments of the Balearic and Canary Islands. To ensure the proper integration of renewables we must continue to deepen the modernization of our energy system, so the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan allocates 94 million for the storage of electricity, flexibility and the impulse of new business models. The plan includes an additional €673 million for renewable hydrogen, which will allow us to complete the framework for support for unique projects, valleys or hydrogen clusters, and to respond to the framework for EU-supported HIPCs. 20% of new renewable hydrogen projects are in our territory. In addition to the work carried out by the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda on the change of mobility and the promotion of sustainable cities, we allocated EUR 455 million in 2023 to the installation of charging points, the acquisition of electric vehicles and fuel cells and the innovation of electromobility, charging and green hydrogen, as well as to the promotion of energy efficiency in the General Administration of the State and in smaller municipalities. The rehabilitation plan in the area of the demographic challenge has a budget of 225 million euros for the rehabilitation programme in PRE 5000 buildings and for sustainable urban development in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants. In addition, there are 504 million for the Energy Transition Plan in the State Administration, 23 of which are reflected in the Mixteco budget and 481 in those of other departments and agencies of the State Administration. As a novelty, I would like to point out that EUR 4.6 million is allocated for actions in the road map for the sustainable management of mineral raw materials, perhaps one of the areas in which we must drive something that has been standing for decades: to understand and sustainably manage our mineral raw materials. Knowing where they are and under what conditions they can be extracted in their case are prerequisites for designing a national policy of raw materials that guarantees strategic autonomy, but that is simultaneously respectful of environmental and social constraints. This road map supports investments under the recovery plan. These include the electric vehicle PART, ecosystem restoration and green infrastructure, the restoration of degraded mining sites, the 2030 industrial drive strategy, and chip and battery strategies for research. The second major challenge we face is the ecological one, which generates human activity in the natural environment by introducing pollution elements, inducing greater climate change or the loss of biodiversity in our ecosystems. The Secretariat of State for the Environment and its Directorates-General and Agencies have a budget of €4460 million in 2023, €909 million more than in 2022, which is 25.6% above last year's budget. Of these, 1957 million come from the recovery plan and 2503 from the regular financing of the general budgets of the State. 247 million are earmarked for the autonomous bodies attached: hydrographic confederations, Commonwealth of the Taibilla Canals, State Meteorology Agency and the autonomous body of National Parks, together with 44 million allocated and managed by the Biodiversity Foundation. This latter foundation received 33 million more than in 2022, of which 25 will be used to finance actions from European funds - 22 million ERDF and 3 million from the recovery mechanism - and 8 additional to take over the management of important resources from both funds. The Directorate-General for Biodiversity, Forests and Desertification has a budget of 216 million, to which will have to be added 313.6 of the recovery plan, so in total it will have to manage 535.8 million euros. They highlight the lines of action aimed at digitising and improving the knowledge of the natural environment, with 72 million euros; the boost to the protection of marine and terrestrial biodiversity, with 155 million euros; as well as the aid to farmers and preventive actions for the conservation and preservation of large carnivores, which are maintained at 20 million euros annually. In addition, another EUR 2 million is added for the conservation of the Iberian lynx. For the restoration of ecosystems we have 94 million, also coming from the recovery plan, and highlight some projects as important as the actions envisaged in the framework of priority actions for the Sea Minor, the protection of Doñana or the Ebro Delta. Sustainable forest management has 144 million euros from the regular budget and 97 from the recovery plan. The national budget is increasing by EUR 14 million, as a reflection of the growing concern that forces us to strengthen measures against forest fires throughout the year. Resources are also allocated for the updating and modernization of at least 10 fire-extinguishing aircraft and for the operation of the biodiversity knowledge monitoring and management system, as well as for the modernization of the bases of the Forest Fire Enforcement Brigades that complement the competence of the autonomous communities. These budgets seek to implement the European Union's biodiversity strategy, the updating and implementation of the Strategic Plan for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, the forestry strategy and plan, support for autonomous communities in the conservation and recovery of threatened species or the conservation and management of marine biodiversity. For the Autonomous National Parks Agency 60.3 million euros are budgeted, 13 more than in 2022, for investments among which are those of consolidation of protected spaces, with 11 million euros financed by the European Regional Development Fund. And to these figures are added 101.5 million euros of the recovery mechanism, which represents a total budget for this autonomous body of 161.8 million euros, increasing by 94 % compared to 2022. Undoubtedly, the item with a greater increase in the ministry's budget. The Water Directorate-General will have €2082 million in budget and an additional 1055 from the recovery plan. The main lines of investment focus on sanitation and purification, restoration and conservation of the water public domain, defence against flooding, maintenance of support for hydrographic confederations and strengthening and development of innovation in water management. Sanitation and purification have been allocated EUR 412 million. I want to highlight such important projects in the territory as the sanitation and purification of the Alto Nervión, the continuation of the expansion of the Buenos Aires wastewater treatment plant in Tenerife; the sewage treatment plants of Albacete, Ibiza or Soria or the Plasencia sanitation system. And to this figure we have to add an additional 51 million euros that manage the hydrographic confederations under this heading. For the restoration and conservation of the hydraulic public domain and defense against floods we allocate a total of 763 million between the regular budget and funds of the recovery plan. To this we add 995 million euros that manage the hydrographic confederations. In particular, EUR 94.78 million is earmarked for the security, maintenance and maintenance of infrastructure, a heading which was dramatically undermined in the years of the previous crisis and which obliges us to strengthen the security of all our facilities, in particular those of dams. For the digital transition in the water sector, there is an investment of 370 million from the recovery mechanism, which joins 105 of the current budget of 2022. The aim is to increase knowledge, improve the use of resources and ensure the most efficient management of water, avoiding leakage and ensuring the necessary use with all guarantees by administrations and users. To these resources are added 284 million euros of investment for the state companies Aquaes and Aquamed, previewed for 2023. Let us think that all these water programmes are closely linked to what will be the third water planning cycle, which will have more resources than our country has ever been able to manage. As for the Normative Programme and Territorial Planning of Water Resources, with an amount of EUR 386.82 million in horizontal activities for the acquisition of public sector shares and participations, we know that this represents an increase of 286 million, destined almost entirely to the State society Aquamed, allowing competitive prices in the production of desalinated water at the present time of high energy prices and thus favoring the stability of the price of water and the possibility that desalinated water can be acquired by users at competitive prices. The budget of the Directorate-General of the Coast and Sea will have 72 million regular budget and 140 of the recovery plan, in order to add a total of 212 million euros that allow us to allocate 5,5 to ensure the integrity of the terrestrial maritime public domain; 41.7 for the protection and conservation of the coast; 16.8 to ensure the public use and enjoyment of this space and 7.8 to plan, conserve and improve the marine environment. Adaptation to climate change and increased resilience are essential factors for planning actions against erosion and coastal strengthening, so we will invest EUR 3 million in creating green filters to prevent pollution from the Sea Minor and EUR 1.9 million for aid to shellfish farmers in the Burgo region, thus compensating for the inactivity caused by actions financed by the ERDF that have been being implemented in this area for some months now. The actions of this programme are based on effective collaboration between all administrations, in many cases directly focusing on competencies that are the responsibility of other levels of administration. Depending on this flexibility, the urgency and the different strategies that are being promoted from the territory, we will apply the budget lines in the different areas of the coast. The Directorate-General for Quality and Environmental Assessment has a total budget of 266 million euros to guarantee, among other actions, the circular economy strategy. 200 million are for lines of subsidies that drive the circular economy in the field of enterprise and transfers to autonomous communities amounting to EUR 49 million under the recovery mechanism. In addition, there is a regular budget allocation of €7.5 million for transfers to autonomous communities for the implementation of waste regulations and the promotion of separation and drive to the circular economy. The Spanish Climate Change Office will have 25 million euros in budget. It highlights the contribution of 12.8 million to the Carbon Fund, which funds projects to reduce CO2 emissions, and the transfer of €7.5 million to autonomous communities for the implementation of actions under the PIMA Plan, climate shelters. I want to devote the last part of this journey through the budgets of the ministry to the third, but no less important, challenge of the drive to policies to meet the demographic challenge and depopulation. A budget that is aimed at promoting and developing in a complementary way the competences of the autonomous communities and sectoral interventions from other ministries in policies to combat territorial vulnerability and the boost of the territorial and social cohesion of Spain. Innovation and entrepreneurship, with special emphasis on young people and women; new technologies and facilitating access to services, housing and connectivity are some of the points of interest. Social development, equal access to public services, the generation of rural economies, the gender perspective and the presence of the State in the territory appear as clear approaches in this budget. The budget of the Directorate-General for Policies against Depopulation amounts to EUR 71 million. Among the main programmes of this Directorate-General, the Cohesion and Territorial Transformation Fund with 28.4 million euros, orienting its investments to the financing of tractor projects that allow the impulse and sustainability of municipalities with greater vulnerability, smaller size and more innovative vocation. [[The Lord]] The call for innovative projects for territorial transformation and the fight against depopulation also has its own budget of EUR 33 million. The rural impulse and innovative ecosystems include, among others, the 4.6 million Territorial Innovation Centres and the extremely successful Rural Campus Programme this year, which facilitates a university experience in the rural world and provides a very important anchor and root in our young people. With regard to the cross-cutting of these budgets with regard to the population challenge policy, I would like to point out that for the second time we measure the appropriations allocated to all departments and agencies to combat the demographic decline and the fight against depopulation. This study is based on the Plan of 130 measures to address the demographic challenge, involving all ministerial departments. This year, 2023, an update has been made to this report, which forms part of the general budgets of the State and is at its disposal. The budget allocations for this plan for the general government as a whole amount to EUR 4439 million in 2023. It will already be the third year of the plan. These measures relate in particular to digital connectivity, the energy rehabilitation of buildings and the deployment of renewable energy, facilitating the green and digital transformation of the primary sector, the conservation and restoration of ecosystems, the protection of biodiversity and sustainable forest management, the promotion of mobility, fair transition strategies, access to quality water resources, strengthening rural housing initiatives, support for the care economy, the promotion of family and child initiatives or the promotion of entrepreneurship, in particular for young people and women. The Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge contributes EUR 1438 million in 2023, 32.4% of the total allocated to anti-depopulation policies; by contrast, the largest contribution is made, followed by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, which contributes 923, 21% of the total. I would like to stress the cross-cutting nature of these budgets, as well as the importance of responding to the environmental emergency, the climate emergency and the social impact it has not adequately addressed. In Mariana Mazzucate's words, politics is not just about intervention, it's about shaping a different future, creating new markets and bringing value, not just fixing markets or redistributing value, it's about facing new challenges, not just eliminating risks, and it's not about levelling the playing field, it's about tilting it towards the type of economy and the type of society we want. With these budgets we tilt the playing field in favor of the people and in favor of the territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u52	Thank you so much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Gimeno has the floor in defence of amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I support the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to the sections to be discussed today. Minister, your visit to Andorra this Monday to explain the Just Transition Agreement came four years late, when more than two years ago it closed the plant and a few months after the cooling towers that had become a symbol for our landscape had been dynamized. With this demolition we feel a knot in our throats, we plunge into despair and we are outraged both by the fact itself and by the symbolism of what it represents. That demolition is an important mistake on how to act with industrial heritage, a missed opportunity. You can still save the fireplace and resume projects from that resource. We appreciate the investments announced for Andorra with the Fair Transition Agreement, but we are concerned about the confusion that is induced by mixing processes. The factories in operation have been installed with the MINER Plan. The Government of Aragon during these four years has made multiple announcements, but only announcements, not a single reality, not a single company, not a new or replacement project or jobs, only contracts to maintain the power station. Now it announces a Just Transition Agreement with 204 million, but lacks concreteness and cannot be presented as own of this agreement those investments due to other processes and compensations. There is an obligation on the winning company of Nudo Mudéjar to make investments in projects of social and economic scope that generate employment in the territory. By the way, this condition of the competition is partly the result of our insistence on creating jobs in diversified activities through the deployment of renewable energies, which we believe are the way forward. At the moment, we in Andorra are in the field of more promises and not realities, more intentions than concrete facts. It is a situation that seems to mask the abandonment, which leads to the citizenship of the region to hastyness, which gives more reasons for mistrust and, worse, which is leading us to emigration. The energy and mining sector represented 4,000 jobs between direct and indirect. What's left? There is still emigration, people who have had to look for jobs outside, while the energy transition opens up important avenues of wealth for investment groups. How many fixed jobs have been created by MINER Plan investments over the last five years in the area? How many fixed jobs, not for the construction of power plants, will be attributable exclusively to the Just Transition Convention? How many jobs will be created due to the socio-economic projects of the Andorran knot contest? They are information that must be very clear and contrasted in order to be able to analyze the effectiveness of each instrument. It is not the time to confuse, but to analyse the instruments and, if they are not useful, to replace them. In these four years the Government of Spain and the Government of Aragon at the moment have not fulfilled. The closure of the plant came and an abyss was opened for the future of the region. It was the time of the announcements and the promises, but the jobs and the projects did not arrive. On the contrary, in recent years governments have also closed their doors to ignoring the international conventions on the treatment of industrial heritage and the autonomous rules on cataloguing and protection of heritage, ignoring the technical reports of the resolution itself on this subject by the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage. On the contrary, he attacked those collectives and professionals who demanded appropriate treatment for this heritage, which was undoubtedly a resource. Nor did Endesa take advantage of the water conditions for these flows to be more additional water resources in Andorra and its region. In Lower Aragon, in Matarraña or in Andorra with water the future would be easier. There are hydrological regulation projects that do not become reality. We have tabled a number of amendments to the budgets for the different powers of the ministries, some of which are as important as those relating, for example, to the Phosphoyases of Huelva, some of whose drivers are accompanying us today in the rostrum. The Mixteco has responsibilities for the demographic challenge, but in addition, given the time of technological change and the deployment of renewable energies, its competences are decisive for the rural environment and for the small towns of the unpopulated areas. That is why some of our amendments go to hydrological management issues in small actions glued to the territory, but very necessary. This is the case, for example, of the side rafts of Matarraña, which are vital for a Mediterranean mid-mountain region, with a stake in the landscape, indigenous forests and small family farms, which have been able to make the leap to quality tourism based on landscape, nature and heritage. In this same region, and for understandable reasons, it is urgent to adopt measures for the prevention of forest fires, as requested by another of our amendments. The Matarraña, the Maestrazgo and the Sierra de Albarracín are examples that ask us to reflect honestly on his ministry. Is it not necessary, or rather essential, to respect environmental impact assessment rules for the deployment of renewable energies there? We support, as we have said so many times, the decarbonisation of the economy and the energy transition, without any doubt, but it is not possible to disguise as urgency for the common good what is the pressure of certain funds for accumulating rights to implant micro-centres and to take exclusive ownership of this new economic sector. In the deployment of renewables, how is very important. Environmental guarantees are rights recognized in the Constitution and essential requirements for quality of life and the environment. Transparent and honest administrative procedures give quality to our democratic system. Instead of speeding up and pressuring administrations, it is perhaps more urgent to boost the generation distributed in Spain, following the directives of the winter package, and to regulate and apply from now on a physical model of deployment of renewables similar to Danish or German; a model that contemplates the landscape, the environment and the participation of local communities in business projects. In the same vein, many experts and organisations consider that the regulation which the Commission proposed to the European Union on 9 November to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy does not comply with European Union law because it lacks a legal basis, violates the principle of non-environmental regression, violates the limits laid down in the main directives on the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems and, without justification, eliminates the environmental impact assessment. It is not possible to change the European rules on public participation in projects and environmental assessment in 14 days because the plants are not going to be built immediately and because the response to the energy emergency caused by the war and its effects cannot be to dismantle environmental guarantees. He knows that the intensive development of renewable energy places an excessive burden on the rural population and that a wind or photovoltaic industry increases depopulation, so that with these decisions of the European Union the rural environment of emptied Spain is completely unprotected. That is why both your ministry and the European Union are at the moment of stopping this dynamic. Many organizations and experts consider that there is no legal or ethical or operational basis to consider the interest of the promoter of renewable energy microcentres...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u54	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u55	... of free competition is superior to the interest of a population in maintaining its territory, its landscape, its natural resources, the land of cultivation and the water on which it depends, or to the interest of the protection of biodiversity, on which we depend as much as of energy. On behalf of many citizens, we ask you to vote tomorrow not in Brussels, because the chain of European and Spanish laws must be respected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u56	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u57	One cannot from day to day allow the transformation of a rustic territory into industrial soil. These facilities are not legitimate for electricians and investment funds to grant permits without control of the environmental state or through administrative silence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u58	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, my parliamentary group, Citizens, has tabled a number of amendments that we firmly believe could be of great use to our entire country, to support this energy transition and the fight against climate change, to help citizens and energy-related sectors and to tackle this crisis in which we are and which will get worse when the winter enters with lower temperatures. But we have found that many of them have been vetoed and others have not even wanted to take them into account. We have tabled an amendment to add a new additional provision with a national water use plan. We propose a national plan for the use of water resources to identify and study the possibilities of water infrastructure to be developed in the national territory. Within the framework of the energy transition and following continued support for the decarbonisation of the economy, the sending of correct signals to the market and for the firmness of the renewable energy system makes it a priority in 2023 to reduce the consumption of natural gas and to achieve this real, rapid and sustainable drop in electricity prices. That is why we have tabled this amendment. For what? To make a real comprehensive analysis of the water situation of the Iberian peninsula and, thus, identify new unexploited hydroelectric uses for both generation and energy storage. We believe that it is vital that water resources have this plan so that we can continue to fight for this decarbonization. One very important thing that we have also included in another amendment to these budgets is that there is a strong impetus for the semiconductor sector in Spain. We propose a strategic project for economic recovery and transformation, a PERTE, specific for the drive to the semiconductor sector, with the aim of placing our country at the forefront of the European Union in the development and manufacture of chips. This sector, in addition to being strategic for the development of technologies as varied as automotive, energy or electronics, has proved to be critical in a geopolitically tense context as we live in. It has already been shown that it is important to bet on semiconductors and that we do not rely entirely on third countries. We also believed that it was important to bring back an initiative that we have already registered here in Congress, which is to call for the impetus of a PART for cogeneration. The cogeneration sector has spent a few very difficult months because, as it initially stayed out of the royal decree of the top at the price of gas, in summer they had to close many of the cogeneration plants. They are still struggling to get out, even with the modification made by the ministry in the last royal decree law, and we believe it is important that this transition and the change that the cogeneration has to make be accompanied by a PERTE. It is important because it is one of the sectors that could benefit from green hydrogen to continue to evolve, be less polluting and be able to meet that zero emission target. But if there's one thing we're really worried about, it's renewable projects. A couple of days ago we picked up in the press something that we have warned a long time ago, that there is a bottleneck when it comes to processing certain renewables projects in our country. That is the case; it has already been collected in the press and in the documentation that we have provided to the ministry in order to draw up the contingency plan, so we made it known, but since the ministry has not been able to take this into account, we believe that it is important that they focus on improving and energizing this process of deployment of renewables projects - for example wind farms - in our country. That is why we have again proposed that more staff be made available to deal more quickly with these projects, because if we do not do so, we run the risk of losing so many investments that can reach this country, and that these investments are in danger will also endanger the value chain that reaches the deployment of these wind farms in our country. I believe that at the moment, when yesterday we attended an auction of renewables where 3300 megawatts were available only 50 megawatts were auctioned, the sustainability of our electricity system, our bill, the struggle of all parliamentary groups to propose measures to reduce the electricity bill and, of course, calls into question the strategy of total support, 100 percent, for the renewables sector. That is why we have called for the acceleration of the deployment of renewable projects and we will continue to work towards an increase in staffing, so that projects can arrive more easily and our country does not run the risk of running out of investment in renewable projects and, as I say, also endangers the value chain and the employment that it can give and that it is giving in our country the full development of renewable projects. Finally, I wanted to highlight an amendment in which we proposed a safe and sustainable reforestation plan - EUR 1 million - with a clear objective: to avoid disasters such as the fire in Sierra de la Culebra in Zamora this year. We propose a plan to review the reforestation strategies, because we believe that we should focus this reforestation on ensuring that it also serves as a strategy for preventing new fires, in order to find a balance in the maintenance of indigenous species, with a much safer environment, in the face of fires because of the very serious drought that our country is suffering and that is likely to worsen in the future. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u60	Thank you so much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, on a matter of time-limits, I cannot make an overall assessment of the budgets or, therefore, of the actions of the MITECO, but I do have some reference, especially to what you call the renewables impulses and which in my country, Galicia, is lived as a real aggression, as a windfall for greater profit by large companies, which brings ruin to important social sectors and affects the environment and also productive activities such as agriculture, livestock or fisheries. That is why our proposal to go to a wind moratorium as long as there is no rational and consensual wind plan that will be supported, in addition, by the public tender and not by the administrative authorization, which ultimately benefits these large companies. In any case, one of our main concerns in these budgets is all about the just transition. We propose a just transition fund of 50 million euros for Meirama and As Pontes and some other specific proposals for As Pontes. But beyond that, we are concerned about something that is previous: what happens to the evacuation knot of As Pontes, with the evacuation capacity of that knot from the modification of criteria by Spanish Electric Network, which considers that this capacity is zero when it really was 1400 megawatts. These 1400 megawatts are the guarantee of a fair transition contest, as has just happened - it has just been mentioned here - with the Mudéjar knot of the central Andorra, of 1200 megawatts. We asked the government and the government did not give any answers and that is why we ask again: Where are our 1400 megawatts? Or is As Pontes going to run out of a fair transition contest? We believe that they should be clear in this answer. In addition to these issues, we are concerned about everything that has to do with the regeneration and sanitation of our rivers and natural spaces, with the recovery of the coastline of our rivers, with the specific sanitation in areas such as Ferrol, Compostela, Carballo, the EDAR de Barreiro and that of Allariz, or the elimination of lindane pollution in O Porriño, as well as a study...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u62	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u63	... to determine the effects on economic activity at the cost of amending the cost regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u64	Thank you. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u65	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to acknowledge the capacity of the Spanish Government, and its capacity in particular, in the context of the COP negotiations, despite the pressures and insufficient results. Also, as we have indicated on other occasions, we recognize that in the past year, and following the energy crisis, good work has been done and has been moving in the right direction in both adaptation and mitigation and in the cross-cutting elements that are also recognized in these budgets. In the context of these budgets, we are particularly pleased with the inclusion of two measures which we believe will strengthen or advance energy sovereignty and the democratization of the electricity system. Firstly, a new impetus, a further boost to collective self-consumption so that people can own their own energy and develop - this is very important - collaborative networks around energy production. Secondly, a proposal for the present and future. We particularly welcome the Ministry's willingness to promote and analyse the possibilities of aid for the development of agro-voltaics. We believe that it is an important element that allows us to introduce clean energy while at the same time producing food or protecting biodiversity and territory. It serves to protect crops from adverse or extreme climatic conditions and to improve both the economic possibilities of farmers with energy production. However, Minister, I would like to say that, as you well know, in the area of ecological transition, when you do not want to move forward, there is always the risk of going back. This is what has clearly happened at the last climate summit, where thanks to the European Union and its determination the main elements of the Paris Agreement have been saved in extremis. And this is also what happens every day here in Parliament, and, unfortunately, in some autonomous governments with climate negators crying out against any progress, against all progress. Finally, I would like to say that, in any case, we would have liked to have had and expanded framework agreements in proposals that we have made and that are very important for the Autonomous Communities. In other words, it is necessary to land in the municipalities and the autonomous communities in a very consistent and clear way in the measures of ecological transition and above all adaptation. I am talking about measures such as improving water purification in areas such as Andalusia, where we know that we have pending European Union fines; continuing to ensure the deployment of the popular legislative initiative in relation to the Mar Menor; improving the technical office; the energy rehabilitation fund for schools in the municipalities; improving budgets for the re-naturalisation of rivers or the study of heat islands in cities. These are proposals that we have made, on which we hope to continue working throughout the legislature, because you know you can count on us to move forward...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u66	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u67	... but also knows that in ecological transition not moving forward in many cases means going backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u68	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u69	Thank you, President. Mrs Ribera, pay attention and acknowledge the most absolute failure you reaped yesterday with the auction of renewables. I thought that today I would come here to acknowledge in your speech that your energy policy is a chaos that no one trusts. As of today, Mrs Ribera, she is incapacitated to talk about energy transition because of an auction of 3300 megawatts she has the dubious honor of driving away the investment and streptly curbing renewable production, as no one wants to invest in renewables in the Spain that you are destroying. [[applause]] Mrs. Rivera, I don't know if in the time you've been in the hallway you've given anyone time to convince, but you can't blame anyone. This is your responsibility. Mrs Ribera, your pride and unilaterality towards energy chaos, together with your indolence, put the energy transition at risk, and this budget that you present today is one more example of you not listening to anyone. [[Rumors]] He does not pay attention to anyone, nor to the main opposition group is he able to pay attention to him even a second of his time. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] Mrs Ribera, what you have been doing since you were a minister is bringing us various budgets and a complex legislative package in which you have always promised the same: that you protected the vulnerable, that you were doing to lower the energy bill or that you were fighting climate change, but your reality is quite different. Pay attention. First, according to the CNMC Newsletter of Electrical Indicators, you have multiplied by two the number of severe vulnerable consumers, and it is the CNMC, that the writing stays at home. And not because the conditions of access to any kind of tariffs have been facilitated, but because since you are ministering today the Spaniards are 6% poorer than in 2019. Secondly, you, Mrs Ribera, your reality, are responsible for the light being fired at 148%, the diesel at 56.5% and the butane at 46.2%, and all that against the middle classes, which you are making have the dubious record of excise duties, with a spectacular rise of 8.5%. Spanish farmers, taxi drivers or transporters had never paid so much for fuel taxes. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, Mrs Rivera, what do you think of your fight against climate change? I don't know what you went to Egypt, to COP-27, but it has to be embarrassing to show up at the climate summit with the support of the Iberian exception and say that 60% more gas is spent on producing electricity, that 37% more CO2 is contaminated than last year and that you are responsible for financing the purchase of Russian gas in what goes on year-round in more than €47 billion. [[The lady]] I know Russia hasn't gone to COP-27, but Vladimir Putin would have wanted to give her a hug of gratitude for what you're doing. [[Applauds]] These general state budgets should serve to ensure that farmers do not pay for diesel or the most expensive fertilizers in history, that carriers do not pay for diesel at unseen prices and that energy poverty is not imposed on the most vulnerable families. Because while you encourage gas to be spent on producing electricity...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u70	Mr. Requena, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u71	I'm done, Madam President. ... There are families who can't turn on the heating. It should be the budgets - term - of a different energy policy, not the budgets that make the Spaniards finance the war of Russia unintentionally and by its imposition. Thank you. [[Applauds.-Mr.Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Take care, Ribera!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u72	Thank you, Mr. Requena. Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, your Government has a bad habit of not listening to the opposition, of not listening to the sectors affected by its policies and just listening to those who do not want any good future for the Spanish, and it is reflected in this budget. [[Applauds]] A budget serves to solve people's problems, not to ensure that Pedro Sánchez remains seated in the Moncloa until he decides to call elections. With you we are getting used to the worst, a scandal happens to another scandal. They leave the historical memory in the hands of Bildu, allow sexual rapists and abusers to continue to go out on the street and suppress the crime of sedition in exchange for budgets. Madam Vice-President, what is the limit of your government? They're going to raise 30 billion more. How far do you think you're going? How far do you think you can hold the pocket of companies, industries and families in our country? They are going to launch a tax that is not and is not expected in any country in Europe - yesterday Italy made a moratorium of a new year because it cannot continue to pressure the industries of your country -, the plastic tax, which will affect more than a million companies in our country and will generate more inflation in the basket of the purchase of the families, Madam Vice President. I'm going to take a picture of what your ministry represents. With you, the most expensive field fertilizers in history; with you, the most expensive tractor diesel in history; with you, this new plastic tax, whose packaging of the basics of the shopping basket will make these more expensive than ever. Madam Vice-President, take care, please; listen, please, to the opposition. We already know that you are very good with populists and independenceists, but listen to the opposition, Madam Vice-President. Madam Vice-President, with you there are many sectors in Spain that have no future. The maritime fishing sector, with the Coast Regulation that you have approved, has no future in our country. With you, the economies associated with the banks of rivers, streams, like, for example, the world of copo in the Ribera del Duero, have no future in our country. With you, with the Costas regulation, the tourism sector in our country, on our coast, on our beaches, has no future, Madam Vice-President. What future awaits livestock farmers if their ministry does not stop attacking livestock farmers in our country? What future awaits rural Spain if not to attack kinegetic activities, the forest world, if it does not implement policies for bioeconomy or biomass? What future awaits rural Spain in our country, Madam Vice-President? By the way, this morning I woke up with an advertisement from your ministry that we all paid for. Advertising says: Teresa Ribera, the future of the world's forests is in your hands. It would be better for you, Madam Vice-President, to worry about the forests of Spain, than this year we have been the country of Europe with the most hectares burned. [[Applauds]] The country of Europe with the most hectares burned, Madam Vice-President. What future awaits farmers without hydrographic planning? They are one year late in approving the basin plans. [[Rumors]] Madam Vice-President, with you there is only a future in this country for those who do not want Spain, and in a short time the Spaniards will put your government on the street. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, on 27 January 1977 five communist lawyers were killed in Atocha Street, very close to here: Luis Javier Benavides, Francisco Javier Sauquillo, Enrique Valdelvira, Serafín Holgadoy Ángel Rodríguez. These lawyers were buried within a few days in the midst of enormous tension and tens of thousands of people participated in the burial in the streets of Madrid in an absolute respectful silence, making the Communist Party a huge service to democracy. At that moment of enormous tension, democracy was at risk, but the Communist Party, doing a great service, maintained order and silence. [[rumors]] A few months later, in April 1977, the government, then chaired by Adolfo Suárez, legalized the Spanish Communist Party. A few days ago a far-right organization managed to get a court to hold for a few days a postmark celebrating the centenary of this party that has done so much for democracy in our country. [[Rumors]] And what surprises me, ladies and gentlemen, is that from the ranks of the People's Party, Mrs Uriarte, you align yourself with the arguments of the extreme right to attack the Communist Party, when what you have actually done during all these years has been to defend democracy in our country. [[the rumors continue]] [[Applauds]] Once again you show that the difference between you and us is that in Spain that you defend we do not all fit, and that seems to me very serious coming from the People's Party of - supposedly moderate - Mr Feijoo. [[Rumors]] I'm going to the subject you brought me here, section 23. In 2016, when Donald Trump came to power in the United States, he announced that he would abandon the Paris Agreement, the protocol to fight climate change. Then there was a global debate about what to do and the decision of the rest of the countries was: let's continue fighting climate change and let's not wait for the negators because we can't wait for them, the United States will already reintegrate into the fight against climate change. That is what was done and, indeed, today the United States is reincorporated into that struggle, because the negatists pass, but climate change continues. The energy transition is already a reality in our country and while you continue to bet on the sources of dirty energy, such as fracking, nuclear, coal or gas, Spain is moving towards its energy sovereignty, setting itself as an example throughout Europe. We are celebrating this debate precisely when wind power generated 20,594 megawatts at 18 o'clock in the afternoon of November 20, reaching 56% of electricity production and thus beating a new record of instantaneous wind production. [[rumors]] Over the past week more than half of the energy we have consumed has been produced by the wind, pulling prices down. Already in 2021 wind energy became the first source of electricity production in Spain. These data are in addition to the data on the increase in solar production, which has been almost 300 % over three years. What do you say, Mr Requena, that there is no investment in Spain? [[Mr Requena Ruiz speaks words that are not perceived]] 300% increase in three years. According to official data from the Spanish Electric Network, solar photovoltaic power has tripled, from 4767 megawatts at the beginning of 2019 to 15,190 megawatts at the end of 2021, an estimated figure will be higher in 2022, since by the end of August 13,100 megawatts were already counted. Solar energy has increased from 3.55% of the total to 8.05 %, and part of this increase is based on self-consumption. Self-consumption, by the way, was paralyzed by Mr Rajoy's sun tax. This year, more than 2000 megawatts of self-consumption of installation power are expected to be deployed in Spain, which is 54% more than the record recorded in the previous year. The figure is much more relevant than 623 in 2020, i.e. in three years self-consumption has increased by 22%. So, Mr. Requena, check your data. [[Rumors]] This boost to renewable energy means that the energy price in Spain is falling, not as in nuclear France, which is its example. This change is also global; renewable energy covered the entire increase in global demand for electricity in the first half of 2022. Photovoltaic solar energy also employed 31,500 people and wind power employed 23,900 people in Spain. In addition to direct and indirect work, the renewable sector employed 92,930 workers. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is only the principle, because if this trend continues, the renewable energy market could generate a cumulative total of 468,000 jobs during this decade, 350,000 direct and 118 000 indirect. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what the energy transition is achieving in our country thanks to the national energy and climate plan, thanks to the climate change law and thanks to the effort that the parties that we are going to support this budget are doing. And thanks to a society that is aware, from entrepreneurs to social organizations and trade unions. Everyone but you is with the energy transition. [[Applauds]] It is true that much remains to be done because the process is not easy. Transport electrification must be accelerated, which is the sector that continues to increase its emissions. Protection of the territory must be ensured in order to make the development of renewable energy more orderly. We must continue to expand self-consumption. Adequate development of green hydrogen must be ensured. The current Mines Act of 1973, which must be adapted to environmental legislation, needs to be amended. Subsidies to fossil fuels must be stopped. In short, much work remains to be done, but of course this is the way forward. And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, let us ignore the Donald Trump of life and move forward with this energy transition, which will lead us out of climate change, generate employment and help us economically and socially. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u76	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Rumors]] Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are debating the section of the General Budgets of the State referring to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, and the previous speaker, Mr. de Podemos, comes and talks to us about the virtues of communism, and I am impacted; impacted not only because he defends communist ideology itself, but because he speaks about communist ideology in a forum that includes ecological transition, climate, etc. Communist ideology is a murderous, criminal ideology. Throughout history, and we go back and forth, Pol Pot murdered 1.7 million people in cold blood in Cambodia; all the men who had glasses killed them for the mere fact of being able to read. Yesterday's Communist Mr. Podemos laughs, but you would have been killed in Pol Pot Cambodia. [[Applauds]] Stalin killed at least 23 million people directly and immediately. Mao killed 78 million people. It is the communist ideology criminal and murderous, ideology that, moreover, has most attacked the climate of human history. [[Applauds]] They were able to dry a sea, the Aral Sea, for their madness, to cultivate cotton in the area; they reduced a sea and turned it into a pool of hypersalinity. Are those the communists who come here to talk about the weather? Those? The communists responsible for the greatest nuclear accident in man's history, the Chernobyl accident, for operating a nuclear power plant in terrible conditions, where, in addition to making energy, they used to generate atomic fuel for their nuclear weapons? [[Applauds]] A warlike, murderous, criminal and frontal enemy ideology of the climate. [[Applauds]] And they come here to teach us lessons? Do you really have so little shame to talk about here? You are the hypocrisy and the personified lie. It is important for the Spaniards to understand that if this item of the General Budgets of the State, referred to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, is approved as it is, Spain loses, Spain sinks, and the future of Spain will paint increasingly darker. Why? Because, in the end, this Ministry of Ecological Transition does all it does with this budget item is impose and place its agenda on us. I'll explain myself. They come here and they tell us: no, we have to stop polluting, we have to stop emitting CO2 because there is climate change in the world and our farmers are suffering. But, still understanding the argument, Spain emits 0.7 % of the world's CO2. Does it make sense that our farmers cannot use their diesel tractors? Does that make sense? Does it make sense that our farmers cannot grow barley or wheat in Spain and, instead, we have to import it? Do you really believe that what is cultivated in other parts of the world does not emit the same CO2 that is emitted here? Does it make sense for Catalonian pig farms to close down to directly import pig production from China? Do you think that pig production doesn't pollute? What happens is that you, Mrs Ribera, are exporting Spanish production, you are moving it to other countries of the world, which are the ones that get rich. Meanwhile, our workers, for example those in the Upper Horns of Asturias, which are now going to close, will go to the street; those in our car factories, which produce around 12% of Spain's GDP, will go to the street. And in return, Mrs Ribera, those jobs will be located in Morocco, Algeria or any other country in the world. Our workers will have gone to the street and, at best, we will reduce global CO2 emissions by a regrettable 0.7%. [[Applauds]] In addition, it is important for all Spaniards to know and understand that Spain is one of the least CO2-emitting countries in the world. Spain is below the EU average per capita emissions, where the average emissions are 5.7 tonnes of CO2 per capita, while Spain is around 4. In turn, Europe is the region of the world that emits less CO2 per capita and per euro of gross value added in its GDP. In conclusion, despite being one of the most efficient countries, you force our industry to close, force the countryside to stop cultivating and, in return, don't bring us anything, because when you come and tell us about the drought - again, buying the argument - Spain has pulled on average almost 30,000 cubic hectometres of water. Those 30,000 cubic hectometres of water, on the one hand, for the higher quantities of the Albufeira Convention that we passed to Portugal, and, on the other, for the quantities that are poured from the Ebro to the sea, will allow us to triple the surface of irrigation that we have in Spain. And that, Minister, could you promote it, but no, it does not promote it; what you promote is to distribute money to your friends through IDAE with grants of 13 million euros, while spending on salaries and salaries 15; that is, of the most inefficient we can imagine: at the Biodiversity Foundation, 8.5 million; at the Biodiversity Foundation, for real investments, 14 million; Forests Without Borders, 30,000 Eurites; Fademur, 129 000 Eurites; the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, 172 000 Eurites. So, one after the other, one after the other, you give to the various chiringuitos that I have been able to quickly collect about 37 million euros and, instead of favoring our industry, our field and our productive sectors, what you do is favoring your friends. Please ask the Spanish whether we want their nonsense or whether, on the contrary, we want a reasonable energy policy, which is what you should bring us here. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. [[Mr López de Uralde Garmendia asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. López de Uralde?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u79	I am asking for the floor under article 71, for references.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u80	Please refer to the specific allusions. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u81	The spokesman has taken out a whole series of things about communism, and I would ask him to calm down a little bit and to recognize the role of the Communist Party in the arrival of democracy in our country and the role of the Communist Party in the transition, because that is what I have referred to. [[laughs]] However, it has come out with a series of things that had nothing to do with it. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u82	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been here all week talking about the general budget of the State, often with abstract, empty words, without any content and without thinking many times about the citizens, about the thousands of citizens who are eager to have an answer to their problems, especially those provinces devastated by depopulation. That is why we want to talk here today, in this session, about the demographic challenge as something fundamental to the future of our country. We often hear these terms of empty Spain, empty Spain or euphemisms to talk about depopulation. However, behind all these words is the reality, the longings, the hopes of millions of people living in provinces like mine, the province of Zamora, or many provinces where they have in this budget the hope of responding to all their problems. That is why it is no longer enough with words, with intentions, with resounding statements, what we need are facts, and to do so we need public policies that have sufficient resources to carry them out. And of resources is what this budget is talking about, ladies and gentlemen, because this budget is the one with the greatest investment in combating depopulation and the demographic challenge in our country. This budget contains more than EUR 4400 million in aid, in investments for all those inhabitants of a Spain that needs more attention, more opportunities and, above all, better public services, and we are going to do this on the basis of four main development axes. Firstly, digitisation, which is essential for the development of any territory in our country. Secondly, through full connectivity that allows the development of any vital, personal, family or economic development of these provinces to which I referred earlier. Thirdly, through administrative decentralization, this political project that the Socialists have launched with the sole objective of bringing the public administration, the State administration, closer to all citizens. And finally, the maintenance of our basic public services for the fixing of population, for the creation of wealth, for economic development and, above all, for the maintenance and improvement of our welfare state, and all this with the aim of guaranteeing territorial cohesion, social justice to all these territories of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to make life easier and fairer for all those people who live in territories at risk of depopulation. We must be the speaker of their demands, but above all we must give them a solution, and this budget is the beginning in order to achieve it. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The demographic challenge has been a commitment to this Government since the first day and I would like to tell you that from this political group and from this Government we will continue to work towards a future full of opportunities and illusions for those millions of people who are certainly waiting for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Fagundez. I also have the floor for the Socialist Group, Mrs Caballero Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u85	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the second budget made with Spain's Climate Change and Energy Transition Act and is the largest budget in the ministry's history, with 11,313 million, 14% more than the previous year. The Secretary of State for Energy manages 40.5 % of the budget, basically to mitigate climate change, to reduce CO2 emissions, accelerating the massive deployment of renewables, because, Mr Requena, there is no greater disaster than you caused with the sun tax and the billion-dollar claims that have occurred and that we are still paying all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But also by driving green hydrogen, making homes more energy efficient, promoting sustainable mobility, creating low-emission areas in cities, electricity infrastructure, helping SMEs and especially vulnerable families, doubling the amount of the thermal social bonus, those vulnerable families that you left behind in the previous crisis. In this budget, the Secretariat of State for the Environment manages 42%, with an increase of almost 1 billion more than last year, mainly to adapt water management to climate change given the gravity of the problem in this country, and we act on all fronts, for the first time with hydrological planning adapted to climate change, investing in ensuring water to alleviate droughts, recover aquifers, protect ourselves from floods or restore rivers; restore the rivers, gentlemen of the People's Party, because you have committed to putting cloves in the hydraulic public domain, when you can put them in the broad Castile, since it is an autonomous competition. In addition, we invest in water purification, which is also an autonomous competition, almost 600 million to improve water quality and increase the amount of water available for other uses, and another 370 to improve the efficiency of its use by digitizing the water cycle. Faced with this, you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, with your policies previously negationist and now retardant, always criticise that the infrastructures - the dams, the reservoirs - that then, when you govern, do not build; that, on the other hand - and this should also be known by the lords of VOX who support them - were already in the basin plans since 1940 and that the dictator did not, even though he built 615 reservoirs. I should tell you something. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u86	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u87	And now they are calling for further delaying the decarbonisation of the economy, further delaying electrification, low-emission zones, the closure of coal mines, thermal mines, oil explorations, nuclear power stations and the plastic tax. His project for this country is only to delay and delay everything. However, these budgets respond to Spain's commitment at the international level to facilitate the decarbonization of the Spanish economy, and we reaffirmed this last week at the COP by launching an alliance against drought to which more than thirty countries have already joined, in addition to strengthening, among other initiatives, the Global Fund for Climate Change Adaptation of Vulnerable Countries, because with this Government Spain is in international forums, unlike what was happening with its own. They also respond to the commitment to align the country's budget in the fight against climate change. Next year, more than 30% of the country's budget, as all ministers mentioned earlier, will be devoted to combating climate change. These budgets are the largest investment ever made in environmental policies to reorient and modernize our productive model, to generate employment, health and, above all, the future, the opposite that happened to you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u88	Mrs. Knight, thank you very much. I give the floor to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u89	Thank you very much, President. I will be very brief because I have come here to present the budgets, but I would like to record the concern so great that I feel when it comes to identifying with whom, in the main opposition party, a serious and constructive dialogue can be held on real data in relation to the issues that are important in general - and more at this time - and are the responsibility of the ministry. Instead, we find a spokesman who does not hesitate to lie, to distort data, to despise efforts, to obviate the response that is being given at difficult times; who ignores, ignores or prevents progress in European and national energy policy, in the environment, in water challenges, in the social impact it represents, and who does not devote half a word to depopulation. He's been paying for the same grades for months now, and I'm not going into this. But, as I said, this country needs an interlocutor in the People's Party who is serious, who is committed to this agenda, who understands its geopolitical, industrial, employment, economic, social implications, rather than making permanent use of chascarillos, lies and retardant and negatist positions. [[applause]] Embrace Putin? Is that the best you can say about the energy debate right now? Are you also forgetting what happened in Castile and León with the fires this summer and the lack of adequate staff in the midst of heat and drought? [[applause]] Are you forgetting the declarations and the abandonment of the functions of the presidents and autonomous governments of Murcia and Andalusia with regard to the Mar Menor or with regard to Doñana? Do you forget to look at who is campaigning for zero deforestation that you refer to, which, by the way, are NGOs? Honestly, it would be better for them to take this agenda seriously, to identify someone who understands and who, instead of exuberant and chascarrillos, gets to work on the job, because we play a lot and it is not worth the absence of dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. We move on to the debate in Section 20, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u91	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour for me to appear before the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies to explain the broad lines of the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State of 2023 in the part that corresponds to section 20 of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Before I enter the large figures in the budget, I would first like to refer to the current situation. We are, as you know, at a complex time. Putin's war has created an added uncertainty to which we already had. The difficult geopolitical situation is affecting the world economy and also the Spanish economy, and that is why our priority since the beginning of the war has been to help our productive fabric, to protect it above all against rising energy prices. Everything we are doing is also building on the strength of dialogue and agreement. Since this inflationary cycle began, the Government has been responding decisively and ambitiously, adopting successive fiscal and regulatory packages that are enabling us to cushion the impact of inflation and thereby maintain solid growth. We are seeing how effective the measures of the Government are. We can see this in the containment of inflation, which we are seeing in the last three months and also in the intense job creation and in the reduction of unemployment. I would like to share with you three data that support these statements. Spain recorded the second lowest annual inflation rate in the entire euro area in October, Spain leads the growth of the euro area, with a forecast for this year of 4.4%, and Spain is one of the major European economies, which has had the greatest increase in employment since the pandemic. Social Security membership, as you know, is at historical levels, around 20.3 million occupied, the highest figure since 2008. Therefore, from prudence in the face of such uncertainty, we can say that the Spanish economy is reasonably resisting a context, as I said, as complex as the current one. The 2023 budgets are therefore an economic policy instrument necessary to address the current context of uncertainty, but also to boost the necessary investments and reforms that contribute to economic and social growth and the generation of quality jobs. I shall now detail to you the budget for 2023 of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, a budget amounting to EUR 10 031 million, the largest budget, ladies and gentlemen, in the history of industry, trade and tourism, an increase of 21.4% over the budgets of 2022. With this budget, the ministry continues the path of productive investment that has an effect on our economic growth and employment. Continuity is therefore given to the transformation and modernization of industry, trade and tourism, with the impetus of the change in the productive model. As you know, as in previous years, the budget incorporates the investments of components 12 and 13 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. In total, this corresponds to EUR 6258 million of European funds. In the area of industry and SMEs we are trying to consolidate with this budget a model of balanced, solid, inclusive and sustainable economic growth; Spain is clearly aligned with the guidelines of the European agenda to make an ambitious industrial policy and position itself among the first European economies in the two major transformations, such as the ecological and digital transition, so that the objectives of industrialization and modernization of our country are met. Spain is demonstrating its attractiveness as an investor destination thanks to major strategic projects such as the electric vehicle, renewable energy or semiconductor projects. The proposed industrial and SME budgets have a total budget of 7243 million, an increase of 26.1% over this year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, to give you an idea, when I arrived at the ministry, the budget for 2018 was 2152 million euros. Therefore, next year we will have three times as many resources as we find ourselves, I insist, when we arrive at the Government. This ambitious project will enable us to strengthen our industrial and reindustrialization policy in our country and will undoubtedly be a key element in improving our productive model, adapting it to technological and climate change, also contributing to sustainable and inclusive economic growth. As you know, the recovery plan is structured, in the area of industry and SMEs, around the actions provided for in components 12 and 13. Component 12, Spain's industrial policy 2030, places the emphasis on the modernization and sustainability of industry and the drive for tractor projects, and will have a budget of €43 billion. Component 13, SME drive, through which each and every measure aimed at improving the competitiveness of our small and medium-sized enterprises is articulated, will have a budget of EUR 308 million. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u92	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u93	Thank you, President. The following lines of action will also be developed in 2023: the line of support for strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation, the PERTE, which is the one with the greatest scope within the programme. In 2021, as you know, the share of the electric and connected vehicle and of the state-of-the-art health has been approved, and in 2022 the agri-food, circular economy, for the shipbuilding industry, microelectronics and semiconductors have been approved, and it is also expected that before the end of the year we will approve the share of the decarbonisation of the industry. The first two have already called for aid that is the responsibility of the ministry, and we anticipate that in the coming weeks we will also approve the call for the naval and agri-food loss. The electric vehicle PART, as you know, has mobilised aid in its first call for EUR 877 million, becoming the largest economic industrial programme in the history of support for our automotive industry. A new call is planned for 2023, which will undoubtedly help to consolidate our electromobility ecosystem at European level. The total allocation of the 2023 General State Budgets for all PERTE is EUR 3808 million; 62% of this amount is earmarked for grants, and thus we respond to the demand that is being made from industry. In addition to PERTE, we continue to develop other lines of action, focusing on the support to the ecological and energy transition of our industry and also to its digital transformation, through the line of innovation projects and organisational and R & D processes, with a allocation for the next year of 128 million euros and also the line of implementation of the digitization of organizational processes in industrial companies, which is endowed for next year with 90 million euros. Apart from the actions under the recovery plan, I would also like to highlight the increase in the CO2 indirect cost compensation programme for the coming year with EUR 244 million, which represents a 36% increase over the allocation we have this year. They are aware that, in addition, in the regulations of the General Budgets of the State it is envisaged that we can increase this item with revenues from greenhouse gas emission allowances auctions as provided for in the Climate Change Act. The allocation of fee compensation, provided for under the Statute of the E-Intensive Consumer, is also maintained, with an allocation for the coming year of EUR 91 million. Within the budget, I would also like to highlight other programmes in support of industrial investment, such as the Industrial Productive Investment Support Fund, which is intended to finance development projects and industrial enterprise growth projects, which for the third year in a row will have an additional EUR 600 million. So far, ladies and gentlemen, this fund has mobilised EUR 483 million. We have financed thirty-three projects with a total investment of 1 billion and the creation of 2043 direct jobs. The second is the support that we provide from the Ministry of Industry to the defence and aerospace sector, a sector that has a strategic character within the industrial activities for its great tractor effect on other activities, for the high components of export, innovation, productivity and added value that are made through the repayable contributions to companies for the implementation of technological and industrial projects with the defense programs and that next year it has an allocation of 1601 million euros. I now turn to the main developments of the budget in the area of trade for the year 2023. In general terms, the budget amounts to EUR 1640 million, which represents an increase of more than EUR 964 million over last year and an increase in annual terms of 142.7 %, thus consolidating with the growth we had been having in previous years. Let me detail some of the actions we will be taking with the Trade budget next year. I would like to highlight the non-reimbursable funding line for feasibility studies under the EIF, with an additional 20 million; the actions being carried out by ICEX, which amount to EUR 52.9 million; the international mentoring project, which is being launched by the Chamber of Commerce and whose objective is to support internationalised Spanish SMEs, increase their potential by increasing exports and consolidate and diversify markets with large Spanish companies and multinationals, but also supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. In the year 2023 we will devote an additional 13 million to this programme, in addition to the 32 million that we are developing this year. In addition to these actions, which are already under way, in 2023 we will put into operation a new instrument, the Co-Investment Fund with Sovereign Institutions, which will have a budget of 950 million euros from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. This fund will be managed by COFIDES and aims to promote the attraction of foreign investment through the co-investment of the Spanish State with sovereign institutions and foreign institutional investments. In the area of internal trade, the recovery mechanism will amount to more than EUR 156 million. All actions in this area are already under way. In the year 2023 will be published new calls of the lines of aid from municipalities to small businesses, which have worked very well throughout the year 2021-2022, along with new transfers to autonomous communities to channel the resources of the technological fund, which for next year will have 50 million euros. As for the area of Tourism, they collect another year of investment from European funds and allow us to continue to drive the recovery of our tourism sector. As you know, the trend of recovery of the tourism sector remains in the autumn and the most robust indicator - the thermometer that allows us to measure this intense recovery - is employment. The number of Social Security affiliates linked to tourism activities in October has marked the best in its historical series, exceeding 2.5 million workers. The tourism budgets will mobilise EUR 1092 million, which also means a significant development of the planning that we have included in component 14 of the recovery plan, the plan for modernisation and competitiveness of the tourism sector. This is an unprecedented volume of resources for tourism policy for the third consecutive year, which responds to a clear and recognizable model, based on a change of model towards sustainability, modernization, the competitiveness of our destinations and the tourism ecosystem operating in them. Our tourism policy is structured around four axes: sustainability, digitisation, resilience and competitiveness, and it is on these four axes where the budget rests. There is full coherence between these fundamentals the Tourism Sector Modernisation and Competitiveness Plan and our budgets. We will develop a new extraordinary call for tourism sustainability plans in destination, in the year 2023 it will have a budget of 478 million euros, of which around 33 million will be reserved to a national priority, which will add to the one that we have already developed in the year 2021, the Xacobeo 2021-2022; in the year 2022, the National Plan of Enogastronomic Tourism, and in 2023, it will be agreed in the framework of the sectoral conference that we will hold before the end of the year. We can highlight the good reception that this program has had, the tourism sustainability plans received in the year 2012504 requests, of which we have financed 153, with an average budget by plan of 3.2 million euros. In the current call that we are resolving right now we have received 514 requests and we hope, indeed, to reconfigure and articulate our tourism policy around these major tractor plans. We have also reinforced the regular call for tourism sustainability plans, bringing back 23 million euros. Budgets also include social sustainability plans, with EUR 6.8 million, which will also enable us to improve the comprehensive tourism sustainability system with more than EUR 10 million. These plans, which we are working in coordination with the social partners, aim to highlight and understand the good practices in the field of work, corporate social responsibility, which many of our players in the tourism sector are already developing. The second axis of action is digitisation and tourist intelligence, with an investment for the next year that exceeds 96 million euros and that is structured around two major items: digitisation of destinations, 41.92 million, and digital skills, more than 53 million. We will continue during the year 2023 developing the Tourist Intelligence System to convert it into a data aggregator that modifies the tourist transformation of our destinations at the national level, allowing to generate control frameworks of tourism in real time, both for destinations and for the tourist ecosystem, in order to be able to have better information in their decision-making. We are also launching the Intelligent Destination Platform, which, as you know, has its headquarters in Benidorm; a unique pioneering program, which aims to connect the tourist with the offer to the destination in an integral way, with all the actors who interact in a space that is already digital and that can be measured and scaled. The third axis of our tourism policy is resilience focused on extrapenisular destinations. Next year we will count on a contribution of 30 million euros in the autonomous communities to continue developing, together with the 70 million that we have already made available to these communities in the years 2021-2022, a strategy of modernization of their sector from different perspectives. We will also finance the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla with an additional 2 million, which will certainly allow us to strengthen the resilience of these extrapenisular territories, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, which were most affected by the pandemic because of their vulnerability. The fourth axis is the competitiveness of our companies, of our destinations. We will continue to develop successful programmes, such as the Tourism Experiences Programme, which will have a budget of 22.5 million euros for the coming year and which will once again allow us to deploy a set of actions throughout the whole territory to develop and enhance our tourism products. A few days ago we published the final resolution of 2021. We have benefited 224 public and private entities, with a total of 36 selected experiences from more than 900 applications we received. Once again we see the acceptance of the programmes that we are launching from the Secretariat of State for Tourism. We also renew our commitment to energy efficiency, the circularity of the sector, through new aid to the productive sector of our tourism; in 2023 we will launch a new line with 43 million euros. It ended with the last axis, modernization, the advancement of the artistic and cultural heritage of our country. Culture and heritage, without doubt, is one of the greatest attractions of tourists to visit us. We have already invested some €400 million in rehabilitation, improvement, conservation of tourist properties, and in 2023 we will launch a new line to strengthen our cultural and artistic heritage throughout the national territory, with a budget of €89 million. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. These budgets that I come to present to you today deepen the path of recovery and modernization of our productive model, to face the challenges of the green and digital double transition, to contribute to the generation of employment, but also to contribute to social and territorial cohesion and to the narrowing of the gender gap. If this draft budget comes forward and receives the majority support of this House, we will launch an image of stability that will undoubtedly lead to greater strength and credibility in Spain. I therefore thank the parliamentary groups that have expressed their support for these budgets and appeal to the rest of the groups to support with their vote the budgets that will allow us to transform and modernise our country. I would like once again to reiterate my commitment to reaching the necessary agreements that contribute to this objective, which is shared. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism. You have sent in less than twenty minutes the explanations on the different items listed in section 20, which is the one that the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State dedicates to the ministerial department of which you still hold and from which different and important subjects that are capital for the economy and employment of Spain are managed. Precisely because they are of great importance, I would like to express one more year's disappointment at the limited political ambition of the resources devoted to the next financial year. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled amendments to this section 20 by a number of Members of the Joint Parliamentary Group, namely Mr Mazón and Mr Guitarte, representing the Regionalist Party of Cantabria and Mr Teruel. In fact, this neglect gives continuity to the disinterest with which the various governments of Sánchez - of you, Mrs Maroto, have always been a part of for four and a half years - have mistreated industry. In this regard, I would like to remind the House, and especially the members of the blue bank, including those living in the evanescent worlds of Yupi, that on 14 July, during the debate on the state of the nation, the Government was urged to urgently promote the reduction of energy costs for the industry through long-term measures to increase the security of business investments and to provide resources at stable and predictable costs. However, we are still in the same and the general budgets reiterate the bad score that has led Spain to be one of the countries of the European Union that is making life more expensive for the citizens and, in the case we are dealing with, that is tearing down the productive fabric, in a unique way that concerns industry. You are taking refuge, you, Mrs Maroto, are making mistakes, at the time, in the COVID and in the war in Ukraine, but industrial uncertainty comes from far behind. I refer to Asturias, my home community, where a high furnace has already been closed and where there is still concern about the industrial future which, for the time being, leads to severe cuts in production and staffing. See Arcelor or Duro Felguera, see what happened in Alcoa, where you have some participation, minister, and where the police and criminal courts are intervening to date; that is, what used to be a sector that provided stable and qualified employment, today is held to a severe degree on the loose rope and without a safety net. That is why my amendment, of EUR 290 million for a new budgetary concept of aid to the electro-intensive industry, would be a relief to the very high job insecurity and the worrying forecasts for the year 2023 that keep Spain in the Community tail van of the post-pandemic economic recovery. This is reflected in the most recent reports from a few days ago, Mrs Maroto. Please update the information you provide to this House. Of course, since the resolution of the debate on the state of the nation adopted by the majority of this Congress was driven by the opposition, the government has ignored it in another clamorous demonstration of the pernicious value that our so-called ministers attach to the decisions of this House, which democratically represents all Spaniards. Therefore, we already assume, we already know the infamous fate of the partial corrections to the different budget sections, which will be the same trash used in the full debate in which I once again rejected the use of a fundamental tool that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has put at the service of parliamentary groups and political parties that are dragging us to a suicidal drift for national interests and uniquely for territorial unity. We will see him here tomorrow in another very serious and unfortunate episode of Pedro Sánchez's handovers, concessions and bartering with separatists on account of the loss of criminal punishment to those who have perpetrated or are perpetrating in the future sedition crimes. Madam Minister, these are the last budgets of the XIV Legislature and I would like to point out that some of the major objectives set at the beginning of the mandate are still not being met. I will refer to one that was - I believe - in its scope and which has been wasted as a great opportunity to forge a political, trade union and business consensus to approve a state pact for industry that advances towards the recovery of its contribution to national GDP, 20%; a state pact that in this very House was anticipated, lines anticipated by the economic and social actors themselves widely represented in the Spanish Industry High Level Forum. Finally, Mrs Maroto, I understand that once again your party wants you to change your mind. Last year it failed in its promotional attempt for the Vice-Presidentship of the Government of the Community of Madrid and next year they want it to aspire to mayorship. I should be grateful if you would take the example of Mariano Rajoy, who immediately resigned the Vice-President of the Government of Spain when the People's Party elected him to be a candidate for the 2004 general election. It was modeled six months before those elections. It would be undemocratic for you and other fellow ministerial members to exercise part-time and to stop in the management of the budgets of the year 2023 to campaign. I beg you to resign as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u96	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my parliamentary group, Citizens, has tabled numerous amendments also relating to the ministry you lead. Many of them, most of them, have been vetoed and certainly have not even valued them. [[The lady]] It is curious, because of the fact that there may be an increase in staff or that there may be an increase in expenditure, we had it in our heads, but it is true that in order to support industry, to support tourism or to support trade, we have to invest, the Government has to invest. We had in mind that these initiatives or that these amendments could help and put a granite of sand in a sector which in many respects is - they say - very abandoned. We introduced or proposed, through an amendment, a new additional provision, the creation of a prosecution specialized in crimes against intellectual property. Why? It has a clear objective: to create a body that puts in place rapid procedures to detect repeated violations of intellectual property rights. We think it's important. We have people who are working to create projects that are important and we believe that there must be this specialized prosecutor's office to protect them and, above all, to fight piracy and its harmful effects on the cultural industries. This amendment, of course, was vetoed among the many that, as I say, we have tabled. We also proposed a plan to boost the air connectivity of Spanish airports and the creation of a tourist hub designed to explore, bring and strengthen new and existing connections to our airports, with the aim of recovering as soon as possible the figures of tourist visits to Spain prior to the pandemic. The Government has to make an effort, it is obliged to make an important effort, so that the large airports in Spain can recover as soon as possible the connections that were lost by the pandemic, as well as to bring new ones that strengthen the connectivity of our country and the attractiveness of its tourist offer. In this regard, particular attention will or should be paid to strengthening frequencies in existing connections with the rest of the European Union, establishing new connections with major international hubs and to multimodal airport connections to increase passenger attraction capacity. We find it really incredible not only to us, to many opposition parties and to the tourism sector, that there is no specific CORTE for the tourism sector. We know that they have designed a series of measures since the pandemic, many of them have been very difficult to manage by the tourism sector itself and have not landed where they should be. That is why we again propose that there be a project, a PART for the tourism sector, to meet the contribution of the sector and the economic growth that this sector has made, which it continues to make, but that before the pandemic - we have to remember - it contributed 13% of the gross domestic product. If this is not a strategic sector, which we were able to declare in this Congress in last year's budgets, if it is not strategic, if it does not need it and if it is not fair to have a specific PERTE, I do not know which sector would need it. We believe that it is important, especially to strengthen that recovery and the renewal of a sector that is vital to our economy. We cannot deny it, it is clear that we must diversify, that we must bet on our industry, we must help it with the costs of electricity, with raw materials. We have to do everything, but don't let the tourism sector be left behind. We have also proposed a programme to boost market unity and take advantage of economies of scale in the domestic market. We propose a programme that really seeks to take advantage of economies of scale. The survival of internal barriers in the Spanish market, which cannot be understood within a single European market framework, continues to lead to productivity gaps and lower capacity to absorb knowledge and technology in a fragmented market. If we want, for example, to bet on new technologies for waste treatment, for everything we need in our country, it is very difficult for investments to be concentrated only in an autonomous community, because the cost of investing in new technologies, in new procedures, in new industries is not going to compensate if only for an autonomous community. If we succeed in breaking these barriers, we will be able to bring many more investments to our country and have a powerful technological basis for further job creation and further strengthening our industrial sector. We have also proposed the creation of a programme to support supply chains, as the end of the pandemic and the consequent recovery of economic activity and commercial demand have been truncated on this occasion - it is now going to be a year - with the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. We believe that it is important because there are sectors, especially energy and agri-food, that are overwhelmed and quite affected by this. This misadjustment, in a global context of supply crises, hampers economic recovery and undermines the purchasing power of the Spaniards. [[The Lord]] It is important to recall that the above-mentioned mismatch is among the causes of undersupply in all sectors concerned and the resulting price rise. That is why we thought it was an amendment, such as those I am commenting on here in this speech, of vital importance, as I say, to some of the sectors. Finally, I would also like to highlight an amendment, an additional provision which sought the development and completion of the necessary work to launch the adoption of a new industrial defence programming law incorporating structural changes in global markets, new trends in disruptive phenomena and increasing technological possibilities, with the aim of consolidating a sustainable, modern, competitive and high-quality industrial fabric. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u98	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, as you know, my country, Galicia, is suffering from an already chronic industrial crisis that we have been dragging in recent years, we could almost say in recent decades, especially in the electro-intensive industry sector, but not only; there is shipbuilding, including the automotive sector and, of course, also the trade and tourism sector, which is particularly affected by the pandemic. That is why our concern is the need for public intervention to take these sectors forward, especially to pull out the industrial sector in our country and avoid the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs, which continues to be a constant threat. I will defend a number of amendments which have this objective. Although some of them, for reasons of functional linkage, do not depend directly on their ministry, they are clearly fundamental to an industrial recovery process in Galicia. Firstly, a global allocation of EUR 50 million for an industrial reactivation plan in our country and a similar one for a reactivation plan for the trade and tourism sector, as I said, particularly affected from the pandemic; also, an industrial dynamism plan for the city of Vigo, of EUR 10 million. Vigo has historically functioned as our country's major industrial engine and has been particularly affected in recent years, particularly in the shipbuilding sector. Therefore, among the specific proposals, in addition to this industrial dynamism plan for Vigo, it is driving a naval repair center. As you know, we have the case of these two large shipyards, Barreras and Vulcan. In the case of Barreras, it seems that there is finally a solution that can imply a certain prospect of the future, let us hope so; Vulcano remains closed, among other things, following an inadequate, in our opinion, action by the State Administration, which in its day allowed the resolution of the concession of public domain making it difficult for an industrial project, which we understood to be viable and solvent, to take over the shipyard. This naval repair centre in Vigo would be a complementary activity that would help to boost this sector in the south of our country. In the north, a proposal, an amendment of 100 million euros to turn Navantia into an integral industrial complex that is able to diversify its activity, but that strongly incorporates civil shipbuilding. Navantia It cannot remain limited to the niche of military construction, which is a captive niche, as we know, with an obvious limitation that depends on the burdens of the State itself, when the civil shipbuilding sector is a sector with enormous potential that is growing on the planet as a whole. Therefore, Ferrol cannot be left out of this possibility, because it would also be an opportunity not only to guarantee the activity of these shipyards in the region, but to keep them jobs and even increase them. In relation to industrial activity, we are concerned about what is happening - and we have just explained it to the Minister of Ecological Transition - with As Pontes, that lack of fair transition competition, difficult because it seems that the capacity of the evacuation knot of As Pontes, those 1400 megawatts that should have, is not recognized, but also because there is no active policy on the part of the Government to encourage the implementation of economic activities that are capable, at least, of absorbing the loss of jobs due to the obvious practical and future closure of the thermal power plant. Here we have proposals, like 25 million euros to urbanize a business ecopark of 800,000 square meters that is able to host these new economic activities, a center of R & D+i in energy storage, which is one of the great challenges of the energy transition, or a center of robotics and autonomous vehicles for smart cities, which we understand is also in line with the challenges of the energy transition and of the technologies of the future. I would like to refer to issues that, as I say, know perfectly well that they have nothing to do with your ministry but are fundamental because today communications are essential for economic development. We are concerned that in the plans of the Government, as much as the minister said yesterday, the Atlantic freight corridor does not advance, and that in the project Goods 30, of railway highways of the ministry, our country is not included. There is no planned action in Galicia, although these two actions are essential to ensure the economic development of Galicia, exactly the same as others, such as the construction of a freight station in Santiago de Compostela, in A Sionlla, or'even release the north dike of Moras, in the port of San Cibrao, for the traffic of goods, because today it is a captive dike, awarded to Alcoa, but that is not used. And, of course, a heading that enables Alcoa's public intervention remains the only solution that guarantees its future, because the company itself is acknowledging that it is not guaranteed to restart the activity in January 2024. We therefore continue to insist that the ministry and the Government must act to ensure the continuity of Alcoa and the jobs in A Mariña. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u100	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u101	Madam Minister, these budgets do not correspond to the general interests of Spanish industry or to the general interests of the country. They aggravate our imbalances, increase our structural deficit and drive public debt to levels that have never been seen, above 1.5 billion euros, mortgageing the future of our children and grandchildren. Meanwhile, they are unable to recover pre-pandemic GDP levels. The budgets you have drawn up over these years are an example of your lack of ambition, your lack of leadership and, above all, of insolvency in its implementation. And this is your letter of introduction to the Madriders. Madam Minister, what can we expect when only 17.4% of the 2022 budget has been spent on 30 September? His ministry is the worst of the 23 of this government implementing funds. The worst, the last, minister! They don't even know how to spend, and look how hard that is in this government. In 2019 it was the third in line, in 2020 the second worst and in 2021 again the third worst ministry spending funds. Don't you understand that Spanish industry needs it to activate its full potential, the one with its budget, to boost the country's economic growth? You always stay half-hearted, always defrauding in expectations, Minister. Can one sector tell me that I'm happy with you? I tell you, I'm the spokesman for the People's Party of Industry, I'm meeting with all of them, and none of them are happy, Minister. [[Applauds]] We've lost over 3,000 industries since you came to the government. And without basic industry - you know it - we cannot have the strategic autonomy that Spain needs to build a country, and we lose competitiveness. The naval sector, cement, paper, food, steel, chemical, plastics, tile, oil, textiles, wood, rubber, minerals, machinery, automotive furniture, has defrauded everyone. I am not going to talk to you about the impulse to Shipyard 4.0, in the Ferrol region, with that dry dam, I am not going to talk to you about the aid to the Renovation Plan, the aid to the electro-intensive industries or the trade fairs, no, I am not going to talk to you about any of that, these are amendments from the People's Party which bothers you, which you are going to veto or vote against. Its management of the PERTE is summarized, as are Mrs Rivera's renewable auctions - and, unfortunately, today we saw it here - in failure and frustration of expectations. They only know how to make ads. Your Honor, you will cease to be a minister without completing any transformation project, but the mark of your inefficiency, embodied in the PART of the electric vehicle, will see you. How many companies have fallen out of that LOSS? In a context of economic slowdown, Spanish industries and companies need more than ever leadership and efficient and effective management, issues that you...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u102	Your Honor, your time is up. It must be finished, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u103	...has not achieved so far nor will it succeed. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u104	Thank you. Mr Almodóbar Barceló has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u105	Thank you very much, President. They bring us here some budgets that Pedro Sánchez has turned into a souk. It is precisely he who has put all of you in this mess, turning you into accomplices of what can happen here tomorrow. Look, he left them alone last night, and he didn't come to vote for them. What indignity and disrespect! I guess, after President Feijóo's review in the Senate, he wouldn't be very keen. [[Applauds]] Madam candidate minister, you cut 39% in the tourism game by depreciating once again the Spanish locomotive, a sector that has shown, with great suffering and resistance, to be the tractor of the economy at the most difficult times, for the benefit of society as a whole and many other sectors. Mrs Maroto, the occupation is responding, but the result count is worrying. Prices and operating costs continue to rise and one in three hoteliers are planning to close. There is a brake on the reserves - UK, our main market, does not finish taking off - and increases the competitions of creditors in the sector. But all this you may not know, it will be because of the lack of time, with its multiple occupations, I suppose, or a further demonstration of its ignorance, lack of dialogue and empathy with the sector, its professionals and destinations. We have tabled a number of amendments to your budgets, but you vote against them or you vote against them. They say they do not design and approve a specific PERTE of the tourism sector, as the sector has been claiming for months; they say they do not lower airport charges; they say they do not eliminate the implementation of tourist fees that engrave the stays - tomorrow the Valencian Courts will approve the tourist rate of Ximo Puig, which nobody wants -; they say they do not relax the conditions of return of ICO credits; they say not to a plan of improvement of training and employability in the sector; they say no to an extraordinary programme of support to the revival for the travel agencies; they say no to a Renovation plan of hospitality; they say no to a plan of tourist reactivation of the island of La Palma; they do not help the hotel industry and trade, to the conditioning of their premises in order to fulfill the obligations imposed by the real decree on energy saving measures; they say no to a plan of bonuses to consumer in the retail trade, and, indeed, they veto our amendment concerning the improvement and modernization of the holiday programme of the Imserso, with all that you have promised in the past months in the sector. What have you done for them, Mrs. Maroto? Are you going to allow your partner, Minister Belarus, to continue with your none? All this denies tourism, the Spanish locomotive; they forget about Spanish tourism. That's right, pact with Bildu, which is the same as losing the democratic soul, and pacting the sedition reform with the seditionists or raising the salary, that's not forgotten. You trust the recovery to European funds that precisely your ministry is the one that most and most slowly executes, and you only have the sight set on resisting, whatever it costs and at whatever cost, until the next elections, those who will lose, for much propaganda and many fireworks that they want to shoot, because no one believes them anymore, and neither tourism, either. In the face of the government of chaos, the People's Party represents the urgent alternative that Spain needs, in the face of the worst government of democracy, also for tourism. We have team, ideas, a great leader, we know how to manage and we have government experience. Besides, Mrs. Maroto, you're a recidivist. He abandoned tourism during the pandemic, did so in his career as vice president of the Madrid Community, and now wants to be mayor. It is recidivist, Minister, as recidivists will be the Madriders, who will again say with their vows that they do not want it. It is a joke that we have in Spain a minister with matters as important for the Spanish economy as part-time tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u106	Your Honor, you must finish, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u107	A member of the Government must be a full-time member; if not, leave. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u108	Thank you. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u109	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. It is always difficult to talk about industry in this country, a country in which industry has been completely left out for many years, where no determined industrial policy has been made, where, despite the work of the coalition government, many issues remain open, including multiple unresolved labour conflicts. In any case, the work being done by this coalition government is clearly on the right track. First of all, let us talk about the budget allocated, which, of EUR 8263 million in the previous year, amounts to EUR 10,031 million for 2023, 21% more than in the previous budgets of 2022, an exercise in which there has already been a significant increase of 70% over 2021, whose increase over the 2020 heading was also 74%. In summary, the budget allocated to this ministry has increased from EUR 2793 million to EUR 10 billion over the course of this parliamentary term, an increase of 359 %, an additional EUR 7238 million. This is undoubtedly a major industrial budget effort that has been driven by this Government, especially in view of the stalemate in the years of the People's Party and the right-wing government in terms of industrial policy in our country. In these budgets we see that programmes associated with component 12 and aimed at promoting industrial policy contain a very large proportion of the budget. In total, it is almost 3 billion, which are directed mainly at LOSS. We therefore believe that the budgets allocated to this section consolidate aspects to be valued very positively, such as the deployment of PERTE or the consolidation of new tools that have been developed during this legislature, such as the Industrial Productive Investment Support Fund. Both elements reinforce the intervention of the State in guiding structural changes in our economy and, in particular, in a sector such as industry, which is strongly articulated with the rest of the branches and therefore has a tractor effect on the economy as a whole. Moreover, it reinforces this active role of the State, which not only increases the spending power, as this increase in the budget is accompanied by an industrial policy design that diagnoses and identifies those key elements of the value chain in what is necessary to invest, empowers the energy and digital transition vectors of our economy and provides for additional financing instruments. In short, the participation and planning of the State in the economy and industry is strengthened. On the other hand, as far as tourism is concerned, some expenditure programmes linked to this subject identify some decreases in this amount compared with the budgets for the previous financial year. In particular, in programme 43.NA, of transformation of the tourism model towards sustainability, in these budgets the allocation in this respect is lowered. And in this regard, we would like to emphasize the role that this ministry can and should play in promoting determined actions to advance the Sustainable Tourism Strategy of Spain 2030 and, in particular, with regard to the diversification of our tourist product and the drive for a balanced development of tourism in the territory. We understand that not only from this ministry, but in a cross-cutting way from the entire executive, a very important effort has been made to cushion the effects of the crisis, especially those derived from the pandemic in the sector, which, by its magnitude, is of enormous importance to our economy. This has allowed us to recover very quickly, and so the most recent data testify. In terms of employment, the tourism sector closed last October with 2543 000 members of Social Security, the best data in the historical series for this month. In any case, we reiterate that it is so important how much how or how our tourism sector develops. In that regard, we need less intensive tourism in the consumption of resources, less aggressive tourism on certain territories and their populations, and tourism that guarantees a clear guarantee for all sectors of activity that feed it in all working conditions. In conclusion, I would like to point out that these budgets, as we have said, reinforce aspects and instruments that we believe are fundamental to the participation of the State in the economy, in industry and, of course, in an area as important to our productive sector as tourism, and are ultimately essential for a transition to another model in our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u110	Thank you so much. Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u111	Good morning. The Minister has concluded her speech by thanking the parliamentary groups for their support of these budgets. Do you know you're thanking flotters and thugs? These budgets show the essence of this government, these budgets show the essence of Sánchez, a Sánchez who negotiates with the enemies of Spain, who lied to his voters saying that he will not deal with the ETA heirs and today we see how he kneels before them. He was not enough prisoners by budget; now he surrenders to the heirs of terrorism by expelling the Civil Guard from Navarre. We wish to express our appreciation and appreciation for the success of the Benemerita in its fight against the terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] A Sanchez who said he won't deal with Podemos and there he goes, conjured with the extreme left harmful, who has brought to this House laws that violate the safety of children and women by reducing penalties to rapists. This Government releases sexual predators and punishes those who pray in front of abortion centres. Is this the government that defends women? No, this isn't. This is the government of ruin, sedition, tradition, lies and propaganda, and you are complicit in voting yes. Therefore, from VOX infinite distance with this government, infinite distance with those who attack our nation, infinite distance against waste, who end up paying the Spaniards through taxes, those to which they force to tighten their belt. [[Applauds]] The welfare state? It is the welfare of the politicians, of the unions, of Sánchez's friends placed in the Moncloa. It is the most lycated government in the history of democracy, with its chiringuitos and ideological delusions. This is the government against people who only think of power and benefit the enemies of Spain, and that is why we must throw them out, and that is why elections are urgent. Minister Sánchez assigned him a portfolio that represents key activities for Spain because they generate employment and wealth, they represent a development opportunity for rural Spain, for our young and not so young, for Spain as a country brand, and we have missed that opportunity. You, minister, recognize that you have a sweet sour taste for the overall result of the PERTE of the Electric and Connected Vehicle, a PART that excludes part of the value chain, forgetting that the automotive industry is each of the SMEs, each of the autonomous ones that watch over this industry. And the funds do not arrive, today it has appointed the approved LOSS, which are the same as a year later they have not yet arrived. Minister, she has not achieved successful results for businesses and the self-employed of a strategic industry. It has abandoned them to their fate, as it has abandoned the textile and clothing industry, the trash, the naval industry, the metal industry, in short, the whole industry, as it has abandoned trade and tourism. Spain has lost an opportunity in one of the sectors that has suffered most from the consequences not only of the pandemic and Putin, as they always say, but of its policies and its unconstitutional state of alarm, declared as such thanks to the resources submitted by VOX. [[Applauds]] It was a state of unconstitutional alarm, which curtailed rights and freedoms, and banned them from working and imposed restrictions on them, and so many have stayed on the road, and others are now trying to survive, suffering from over-indebtedness and do not know how they are going to pay ICO credits or how they are going to deal with the rise in the bill for gas, light, fuels and commodities, because this affects industrial plants, hoteliers, hoteliers, small businesses, Spanish families and all those who are afraid to turn on the light switch. Minister every day, small businesses close in the neighbourhoods, more than 11,000 micro-enterprises have disappeared. You have spoken of an unprecedented volume of resources and it turns out that the sector has expressed its absolute disappointment and indignation to you. The Tourism Bureau expressed the Government's contempt for tourism. Minister, seeing the bad figures and the disappointment of the sector, do you believe that the work you have done supports you to be the candidate for mayor of Madrid? It is a pity that we have the best candidate, Javier Ortega, to defend the interests of the Madridns against the PSOE, which, with its climate dictatorship, wants to remove cars of more than ten years old from circulation and prohibit access to the center of the cities. Where will the Spaniards get money to buy a new car if they can't get to the end of the month? Minister, the climate fanaticism of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition has been imposed on the interests of the ministry you represent. We have lost competitiveness as China gets rich, and jobs are destroyed. He talked about competitiveness and there are items that have not even been implemented. The budgets of the recovery path are the budgets of ruin. But I will tell you what these budgets should be; they should be on a zero basis to eliminate unnecessary spending and with policies that put families, self-employed people and businesses at the centre. We know how to do it, because we're doing it in Castile and Lion. In a hundred days the figures support it, yes: reduction in unemployment, aid to conciliation, to self-employed people, to businesses, effective measures to prevent fires, protection of farmers, more industry, more employment, tax cuts, cuts to trade unions and employers and inefficient political spending. VOX promised it in campaign, VOX fulfills. [[Applauds]] And we will keep the following promise: to do everything possible to throw them out, to bring down the government of treason and ruin, which opens prisons to pederasts and rapists, terrorists and coups, corrupt politicians, with the passive gaze of the People's Party. It is time to push forward the big changes that Spain needs, it is time to raise the voice, it is time for Spain to decide. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u112	For the Socialist Group, Mr Soler Mur has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the speeches of the parliamentary groups on the budget of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism and now we will tell them the truth. This is certainly a good budget and must be contextualised at the economic moment in which we find ourselves, as the minister did at the beginning of her intervention. We have come from a crisis resulting from the pandemic, and it has been possible that we will fight it, that we will go forward thanks to all Spanish society and the Government, which launched the ERTEs that have made it possible for 3,600,000 jobs to be saved in this country, those ERTEs that you were predicting last year - now they no longer say - that they would become ERTEs, although they have once again failed in their apocalyptic predictions. And it has also been possible to overcome the crisis thanks to the ICOs, which have benefited more than 600 000 companies, with more than 100 billion, when you continue to predict, as you did last year, that there will be suspensions, that there will be permanent creditor competitions, even if they do not occur, as you would like it to happen in order to be able to say here that things are going badly. What's the reality? The reality is shown by the data, which was also commented by the minister: economic growth of 4.5% this year, according to Funcas and the European Commission, and the OECD revised that growth forecast to 4.7% yesterday. The reality is that we have a record of workers in this country, 20,300,000 people are working. The reality is that exports continue to grow in this country and that in the tourism sector the data are also good: we have 2.5 million people working, we have recovered flights from before the pandemic, we have recovered tourists, average expenditure per inhabitant, the average duration of travel. That is the reality, but you criticise the budget for next year. What are the figures? The budget is 10,031 million. Is it little or much? Let's compare it to what we had when the People's Party ruled by parties. In the area of industry and small and medium-sized enterprises now, with the Socialist Party government, we have 7.3 billion, while with you in the PP's last budget, in 2018, we had 2 billion; therefore, 7.3 billion compared to 2000, that is the reality. And in the field of tourism - Mr Almodóbar, pay attention - 1091 million now, with the Socialist Party government, while with you there were 316 million. But what is serious is not the budget, what is serious is what your minister said. I will read it to you, who speaks here of the importance of tourism. Do you know what Mr Nadal, his last minister of tourism, was saying? It said: The budget of the ministry - Journal of Sessions of 2018- amounts to 316 million. It is a large budget, bearing in mind that it is a competence that is exclusively in the statutes of autonomy, and we are talking about residual, residual competences, which are left to the ministry of this administration. Therefore, you considered it residual and now we have tripled the budget. What do we have on trade? With a government of the Socialist Party, 1639 million. What do you think is double or triple? No, it's the quadruple of what you budgeted, that is, EUR 1639 million against EUR 425. That is the reality of the budget, but you dare to criticize here what the Spanish Government is doing, when in all areas, I repeat, in all areas, we can give you deep soups about what you did. [[Applauds]] In the area of internal trade - something you support a lot from time to time - we have 156 million in this budget. Do you know what your last minister said four years ago? He said: We have made a great effort with twice the budget for internal trade. We will have EUR 9 million. Against 9, we have 156 million for internal trade, and like that, all the items in this budget, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore believe that we have a large budget and I would like to congratulate the Minister and her entire team on trying to manage an extraordinary volume with the same number of people. I'm going to mention some of the things you've commented on. Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke here of little ambition. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca makes affirmative gestures]] Do you feel that there is little ambition for EUR 10 031 million with a state pact that is under way and that is approved? [[Mr Martínez Oblanca speaks words that are not perceived]] Citizens have spoken of intellectual property. The minister told me she's going to have to run out right now in order to present, I think she's late, a campaign against forgery. Rego has talked about Galician industry and Galician industry has just received only in direct cost compensations of CO2 the largest item, 44 million euros. Mrs Moraleja, from the People's Group, first of all, you always criticize the execution when you know perfectly well that the execution of the ministry is being completed the following year. For the year 2021, 80 % has been implemented. [[Rumors]] 80% has been executed, as will this year's. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that the sectors are not happy. Who are you talking to? I don't know who you're talking to. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya: With everyone!]] Mr. Marshal, I'll talk to you right now. [[Laughter and applause]] By economic sectors, Anfac has just published - the news has arrived this morning and it will have arrived to you too - that the manufacture of vehicles has grown by 24% and the exports by 20%. Do you know what Mr Griffiths, president of Anfac, the chief employer has said? I am literally saying this: I see the Government's support for automotive as exemplary. Therefore, you have no legitimacy because what you say and what you do has nothing to do; you say one thing and you do another. [[Ms. Moraleja Gómez utters words that are not perceived]] Finally, I will read you one last question that will ring your mind. Pay attention, Mr. Marshal. After listening to parliamentary groups who do not want to support these budgets, I believe that, unfortunately, they have clearly given up contributing to economic growth and the sustainability of the country. You do not want to support this government, you have stayed in the 19th century. You want to overthrow governments, go against laws and give up building, collaborating and cooperating, as my parliamentary group and seven other political forces have done. Mr. Mariscal four years ago. [[Show Journal of Sessions]] Damn Journal of Sessions! [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u114	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u115	Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, continue to pray in front of the abortion centres, which we will continue to work on. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u116	We continue with the debate in section 24, Ministry of Culture and Sport. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u117	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as it is mandatory, I rise to the rostrum to defend the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2023 in relation to section 24, Ministry of Culture and Sport, and let me tell you that I do so with the firm conviction that they are very good budgets. As I have already said in the presentation of the budget for this year, we in the Government have conceived the budget as a key tool for strengthening culture and sport in our country because it is an important lever to achieve this goal. Culture is an essential part of our personal development and the development of our society and can and must play a crucial role in building a better society. Culture is an industry that generates wealth and employment with enormous growth potential both nationally and internationally, produces economic and social benefits and is a source of emotional well-being and health. As the Minister of Finance and Public Service, María Jesús Montero, pointed out in her appearance before the plenary of this House on October 26 to defend the draft budgets, culture is one of the sectors that has suffered most during this pandemic and has a primary role in building societies that want to know how advanced, but also critical and free. I fully agree with the Minister's assessment and believe that the budgets for culture and sport are helping to promote the growth of this industrial sector, its productivity and the competitiveness of these sectors, generating jobs and also helping to solve or alleviate the precarious economic situation in which professionals and companies in these sectors sometimes move. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start my speech - I already know that the debate is sometimes based on realities and strictly on opinions - highlighting what I think is most relevant, which is the overall figure, the EUR 1804 million that the Spanish Government, if the House approves the budgets, will allocate to cultural and sports policies. It is the largest budget in the entire historical series, with a 13.5 % increase over this year's figures. This figure actually corresponds to the whole of the cultural and sports policy and therefore includes the part directly under the Ministry of Culture and Sport, but also incorporates the shares corresponding to the Cervantes Institute, National Heritage or Spanish Cultural Action. The budgets therefore consolidate a continuous increase in culture and sport since Pedro Sánchez accepted the Presidency of the Government and also - and I think this is a very important thing - for the first time give culture and sport the consideration of public goods of an essential nature, precisely because of their vertebrate nature of society. As I said, of the total of 1804 million euros, 1703 will be managed directly by the Ministry of Culture and Sport and of these, 296 million euros correspond to the Mechanism of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. In effect, we are faced with an ambitious budget proposal, which aims to contribute to social reconstruction, to vertebration, to social and territorial cohesion and to the consolidation of the cultural and sporting renaissance that is already taking place and that must, if I may express it, strengthen and strengthen itself in 2023. These budgets pursue four main objectives: supporting the industrial fabric and contributing to its strengthening; facilitating access to culture for all citizens; social and economic dynamism in rural areas, promoting processes of rooting and fixing the population, and promoting new cultural and sporting habits, as well as creating new audiences, especially among the youngest, which is the strongest guarantee of the future and progress of societies. It is about taking advantage of everything we have learned during these years of crisis, first with the pandemic and then with the war - because, yes, ladies and gentlemen, there was a pandemic and there is a war - to advance being stronger, more creative, more prepared and with more culture and sport. Thus, the budgets once again provide for a 210 million budget to finance the young cultural bonus which, as you know, wants to support that embrace between young people and culture and culture and young people, and I must say to them - I think I said it already in the House Committee on Culture - that 281,557 young people have requested it and obtained it this year. Those born in 2005, approximately half a million, will be able to apply next year. This time we will still be able to improve the knowledge mechanisms of this programme and the management mechanisms. The aim is also to promote cultural activity throughout the territory, to facilitate the access of culture to all citizens, to stimulate our rural environment socially and economically and to promote processes of rooting and fixing the population. This will also strengthen the cultural sectors that also have that economic component of which I spoke and will therefore strengthen the employment, fabric and cultural ecosystem, both public and private, that operates throughout the territory. We will take advantage of this year's experience to improve the programme with the aim of making it even more young people and more businesses and cultural entities that can benefit from a programme that also benefits society as a whole. Our aim is that, without prejudice to the guarantees necessary for the proper use of public money, both by the young beneficiaries and by the affiliated companies, it will be possible to speed up the processing of the money and to exceed the figures of this first call. We are convinced that a cult country and a country that embraces and lets itself be embraced by culture is a better country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight the important commitment that these budgets make to strengthen the staff at the disposal of the Ministry of Culture and Sport in order to be able to manage better and to offer the best service to citizens. Now I will tell you the figures, but I think that sometimes things are explained much better graphically. This is the evolution of public employment offers in terms of culture and sport, which have experienced in recent years a very significant growth, logically accompanied by the growth that has also had the budgets of the department that I honor to direct. [[shows some graphs]] [[Applauds]] More culture, more sport, more budget and more personal. In particular, the project I am presenting envisages an increase of EUR 10 million over this year. This will result in the incorporation of more than six hundred workers, more than six hundred public employees, with the aim of further strengthening the structure of cultural institutions. I would also like to point out, because it was the subject of intense debates on the occasion of the debate in the Chamber of Audiovisual Law, that for the first time the Fund for the Protection of Cinematography exceeds the figure of 100 million euros, which was a demand very felt by the sector. In fact, we moved from EUR 70 million in the 2022 budget to EUR 107 million in the 2023 budget. This will boost the financing of competitive production aid calls. But this does not exhaust the contribution of public funds to the audiovisual sector, we also allocate another 39 million euros for the autonomous communities to manage support to the audiovisual sector in three lines. First, promotion of cinematography in official languages, 10 million euros, a fund that recovered last year because it had been lost in previous stages, I don't know why, and that is maintained in 2023. Secondly, aid to cinemas, EUR 14.5 million, because here, ladies and gentlemen, I think it will agree with me that the cultural sectors are gradually recovering from the pandemic, but it is precisely the cinemas that have suffered the most from the drop in spectators and have not yet recovered the number of spectators they had before the pandemic. And third, script support and project development. This is a new line of creation to which we will dedicate 14.5 million euros. On the other hand, the performing arts, dance, circus and live music, which are managed by the ministry from the National Institute of Performing Arts, will have a budget of 175.7 million euros, 4.7 million more, without counting the Recovery Plan. The aim of this increase is to increase aid in competitive competition, in addition to financing direct actions to boost the culture and the lyrical, musical and choreographic activity, either through artistic creation centres or through the Ministry's own production units. The budget also includes, and could not otherwise be, support for reference cultural institutions such as the Royal Theatre, the Grand Theatre Del Liceu and the Teatro de la Maestranza. Another of the sectors that will see their economic endowment increased thanks to these budgets is the one referring to the protection of the historical heritage, which will have an increase of 8,7 million euros, increasing from 2,2 to almost 11 million euros, five times more in investment, and here, although we are not now accompanied by the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism or the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, I would like to thank you for your commitment to the cultural heritage starting with 2% cultural. [[Applauds]] I try to emphasise 2% because when this project started a few years ago, it was 1%, then it went up to 1.5% and we are now 2%. Therefore, it is the whole of the Spanish cultural heritage that benefits not only from the increases in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, but also from the sensitivity shown by other ministries that devote an important part of their resources to the improvement of that heritage, precisely because they contribute to the dynamism of sectors as important as that of tourism. Other examples of planned projects. I know that a lot has been said about this in the Commission, and it is logical that it has, but there are some projects in which the ministry wants to underline their importance. One is the restoration of the stained glass windows of the chapel of the Constable of the Cathedral of Burgos, and someone will wonder: why is this important? All the cathedrals are important, but in the case of the cathedral of Burgos there was a particular circumstance and it was that it fulfilled its 800th anniversary this year, it was its 8th Centenary. The cathedral is magnificent - it is well known by the people of Burgos, but I invite everyone to visit it - but it was still not completely restored, as it was missing a game to recover some stained glass windows that were damaged by the Napoleonic armies. Therefore, in the end we said that all the cathedrals always deserve support, but, on the occasion of the VIII Centenary, we wanted to complete a process that has made the cathedral of Burgos a real jewel that we all have the pride to exhibit and also the opportunity to enjoy. I'm still with the cathedrals, as we also have Huesca's. He also talked about archaeology. There is a question that really is a bit new in our country and it is industrial archaeology, and in this case, in the Turón valley, the mining well of Santa Barbara, because it is true that sometimes we have a non-global and not extensive view of what the historical and cultural heritage represents, and the industrial heritage is so. The Archaeological Museum of Tarragona, from Roman times, will also receive an important boost, as well as the industrial heritage of Mieres or the crypts of the Greek Museum and the Sephardi Museum. We practically doubled with this project the budget for investments in cultural infrastructures, we went from 55 million euros in the year 2022 to 99 million euros in 2023. It is a quantity destined for an extraordinary plan of improvement of cultural infrastructures and more specifically to the improvement of accessibility in archives, museums and libraries, to improvements of energy efficiency and to the renovation of the signage. I am sure that you know some examples and believe me that I am not speaking on behalf of a government in this case, but on behalf of some governments, because it is an effort that has been going on for a long time and that it is also taking place in cooperation with the autonomous communities and in some cases with the municipalities. I invite you to see some equipment that will soon be put into operation, such as the State Public Library in Córdoba, a real temple, but also other cultural equipment that is sometimes not so well known or that has not always been given the same prominence as the archives of Ourense, Castellón and Burgos or the National Photography Centre in Soria, among many others. In the draft budgets we also maintain the agreement of cultural and scientific capital with Barcelona with the same endowment as in 2022, 20 million euros. The budgets for 2023 also have greater allocations for the operation of the major cultural institutions, thereby strengthening the cultural heritage of all, as well as the access of citizens to culture. I'm going to quote you four reference equipments that are going to see their endowments increased. The Prado Museum increases its endowment by 13.4 million euros and in this case the reinforcement is destined for the remodeling of the Kingdom Hall. I would like to take advantage of this intervention to congratulate the management of the Prado Museum for its extended Prado project, which will allow a greater presence and visibility of the set of works of the Prado Museum because not all are in Madrid. [[applause]] We had come across one thing that the Prado Museum's management is going to remedy and it is that there were quite a few works of the Prado Museum elsewhere in Spain and in other institutions that did not have visibility or were little known and, of course, museums do not usually display all their funds. It is logical, but why not take advantage of other public museums and the interest sometimes of local painters who have work deposited in a basement that will probably never be in the most visited rooms of the Prado Museum, but who, on the other hand, may be in the museum of a certain locality where, because of interest and proximity, they aroused the visits and thanks of all? In the case of the Reina Sofia Museum, the increase is 2 million euros and in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum its budget is maintained, 11 million euros. The National Library of Spain will see its budget increased by 2 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with very territorialized budgets and, if I may say so, they will certainly become even more territorialized after this procedure. When I came in, a media partner - I was very launched - asked me: Don't you think that you have given much to the independenceists in these budgets? Let's imagine an increase in a endowment to a museum in Tarragona. Is that for the Independenceists? Won't it be for all citizens? [[Applauds]] Therefore, when in the logical process of negotiating amendments we accept certain projects, it is true that it is the interest of the proposers, logical, but their addressees are the whole of the citizenry, not their proposers. We are not making a budget for 350 Members of Parliament, but for the whole of Spanish citizenship. I move on very quickly to talk about sport. Spain - and I will not tire of repeating it because they are really not my merits, I always speak much better of the merits of others - is the only country that has included sport as a lever of the Recovery Plan. I think it's a reason for pride and it's also a vision that responds to what we understand is the role that sport plays. The budget figure amounts to EUR 375 million, the largest ever allocated by a Government to sport, EUR 235 million from the regular budget and 140 from the Recovery Plan. We are therefore facing an increase of 19.5 % over last year. What is the fundamental objective of sport policy? The fundamental objective is to modernize our facilities and revolutionize Olympic and Paralympic preparations. We all want to enjoy the successes of our athletes and our athletes, but if we want to help them happen, we have to help their preparation process. The regular budget is growing by 27 million and will go mainly to three objectives: the professionalization of women's football, the Spanish Team games preparation programs and the modernization of high-performance centers. You know that we always try to be scrupulously respectful of the jurisdictional division that the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy establish. Therefore, our direct investments must also meet that requirement and it seemed to us that a good way to reach the autonomous communities with state investments was precisely to modernise the high-performance centers that are spread across geography and, from this point of view, the truth is that, speaking with the autonomous communities and discussed at the Sectoral Conference on Sport, we have achieved important objectives that will improve the conditions under which we prepare our athletes and our high-level athletes. The Superior Sports Council has implemented and designed the Team Spain Program, which wants to prepare our Olympic and Paralympics. As you know, we are firmly committed to an inclusive idea of sport that also implies full consideration of Paralympic sport. And it is true that we have played as two games, one called Team Spain Elite, which focuses strictly on the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and another called Team Spain Strategic Interest to support other sports that do not compete in the Olympic and Paralympic Games, but that are key to the image of our country abroad. I don't know if your gentlemen know - the truth is that until I was told, I didn't know - that karate in the Paris Games is not Olympic discipline by a decision of the organizing committee of that city, which incorporated other disciplines. Are we going to stop supporting the karate for that fact? No, no, And that is also why we have created this distinction between sports that are still Olympic disciplines and those that are not, for example, motorcycling and motorcycling. It is a new model of preparation, endowed with 48 million euros, which means 16 million euros per year until the games are held. I will also tell you that it is the Ministry's will to maintain and promote the ADO programme so that, from the sponsorship of private companies, we can contribute, as has been done, with great efficiency, in the editions of the Games from Barcelona 92 to the promotion of the competitiveness of our athletes. The resources from the recovery funds represent 30 per cent of the year 2022 and are in line with the criteria of the funds. Therefore, 55.2 million will be targeted at digitisation; 69 million towards the ecological transition and 16 million towards the Social Plan for the Sport Sector, which develops plans for the training and visibility of women's sport, which is experiencing a very significant boom and which must count on our full support because it is destined to go even further. The government promised last year that in the four years of the legislature it would reach a billion euros of investment in sport. Some of your ladies and gentlemen, and I can understand it, have been skeptical, but I must tell you that with the figures from the 2023 budget we have surpassed that milestone and reached EUR 1149 million in four years. Therefore, we are faced with budgets that want to continue to promote sport as a factor of social cohesion and that continue to think of sport as a lever of equality, and hence the importance for us of women's sport; and also not only that, but that will depend on your lordships with the final approval of the law of sport, full equality in the sports and federal structures of our sport. I should like to thank you for the amendments that have been incorporated. I always have that conviction, which has been fulfilled in the last two years, that a good draft budget is in place and is improved and, in this case, it is also in place. I would therefore like to thank your ladies and gentlemen for the efforts they have made and because there has clearly been in some cases a prioritisation of culture and sport which we are all going to benefit from. I am going to ask all of you to vote in favour, although I already know that this is a request that is probably not going to be successful. It is true that it is always possible to do things better, it is always possible to go further, it is always possible to improve some aspects that are often recurrent in interventions, and I must tell you that we are greatly improving the degree of budget implementation. In any case, I believe that budgets are a clear signal to all the institutions and to Spanish society. We believe in culture, we believe in sport, we believe in sportsmen and creators, and we are going to mobilize a historical amount of resources so that they can carry out their work in freedom, in full competition and dedicated to the enjoyment of all, because in the end the recipients of culture and sport are not only those who practice them, but the whole society that has the right to enjoy them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of the amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Minister of Culture and Sport. Thank you for your explanations on section 24, which is that of the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State concerning the ministry that you headed since July last year 2021. I will speak briefly to defend the amendments that other members of the Joint Parliamentary Group - Mr Guitarte on behalf of Teruel Existe and Mr Sayas and Mr García Adanero, Navarro representatives in this House - have tabled to this section in which I too maintain two amendments relating to two important cultural needs of Asturias. The first is to strengthen the agreement that the Government of Spain and the Government of the Principality maintain to preserve and restore the Pre-Romanian Asturian, World Heritage, as you all know, and one of the great tourist attractions that every year visit tens of thousands of people. Mr Iceta, the delays in updating the investments required in the various monuments that are part of the pre-Romanic are accumulating; therefore, year after year I have insisted on the claim that the Spanish Government should be involved budgetaryly with this set of historic buildings of importance, even of global importance. In addition, sending the budgets so that the Government of Spain does not keep in oblivion two of the great icons of the Camino de Santiago in its journey through Asturias, such as the monastery of San Antolín de Bedón in the east of the region, which is also state property, and the monastery of Santa María la Real de Obona in the west of Asturias. I would like to acknowledge that the Government has finally put itself to work with another of the major emergencies that we have in the Principality, such as the very precarious state of a third monastery, that of San Salvador in Cornellana in the Council of Salas, for which a phase of reform will begin at the end of January that had already had to be carried out a decade ago, as reflected in an agreement involving the state and autonomous governments, as well as the City Hall itself. Mr Iceta, you made reference in your speech to the scattered works that are owned by the Prado Museum and that are in different places in Spain or stored. I remind you that, with his complacency and that of his socialist counterparts in the Principality, the Asturians have been told the painting of Goya Haníbal winner, the first documented work of the great Aragonese painter who hangs today on the walls of room 36 of the Prado Museum, when his site, Mr.Iceta, is Asturias, because so wanted by the SelgasFagalde family, tied to this important painting and many other works of art. Once again he pointed out from this rostrum the unjustifiable and shameful cultural and artistic expoliation of which the Asturian people have been victim with their complacency, Mr. Representative of the Government of Spain. Minister, when I speak in this section 24 I do not want to fail to point out my absolute reproach for how the government of Pedro Sánchez has designed public accounts that relegate national interests to yield to the desires of independence, which once again doubles the arm of the executive. In fact, today EH Bildu welcomes the withdrawal from Navarre of all the troops of the Civil Guard and the Republican Group will celebrate tomorrow Black Friday with the reduction of the criminal punishments to which they have perpetrated or perpetrate in the future crimes of secession. Since his ministry, Mr.Iceta, he has collaborated in this territorial dismantling with the processing of the Law of Sport, which in his recent passage through Congress was incorporated with night and lightness - in the purest style of sanchismo - a modification to allow the participation of autonomic selections in competitions of international scope. A Sports Act from which you were inexplicably absent from debate, Minister, although a moment ago you tried to justify in passing the trick with which the amendment which reduces the importance of a national selection for the benefit of territorial selections is unacceptable. In any case, I would like to reiterate the substance of the amendment to the whole with which I tried a year ago to curb the perverse drift to which Spain and national interests are being dragged by the government. No more ruin, no more surrenders to the enemies of the Constitution and the laws, no more betrayals. Finally, this afternoon, when millions and millions of Spaniards enjoy the first victory of our selection on their successful way to the World Football Championship, some in this House will continue to renew the great values that distinguish Spain and that have its most accredited signs in culture and sport. It is a pity that this government, Mr Iceta, is not up to the nation. To contribute modestly - disdainful of your advice and your request to vote in favour - opposing the adoption of the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State, also in its section 24. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u120	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u121	Thank you, President. We are here talking about culture and sport and I want to start by wishing the Spanish football team luck, which will be premiered today at five o'clock in the World Cup and which we will all have in our votes. Firstly, I want to talk about the need to expand priority sponsorship activities. This is one of the amendments we have tabled, because we do not understand why the Red Cross, high-performance centres and sports clubs are not included. We believe that they should enjoy the same tax system in terms of incentives for sponsorship. By the way, there is a law of sponsorship whose processing is approved in this House and is blocked in the Table; just as they have blocked a law that brought Citizens here and got its processing approved for ALS patients; just as they brought in the nurses a popular legislative initiative to increase nursing ratios and is also blocked in the Table, and just as they brought in Citizens a law to help cancer patients and is blocked in the Table. It gives the impression that the government approves some things one day to take the photo, to avoid the bad headline and wear of the pressure, and then play with the expectations of those affected and block them at the Congressional Bureau. Mr Iceta, we have also proposed a boost to high-performance centers so that we do not have elite Spanish athletes looking for life to train because there are no facilities in Spain, especially in new Olympic disciplines. We have also called for a balance to be struck between transfers to cultural institutions in the autonomous communities, specifically to museums. I'll explain myself. The Government's criterion in determining transfers is that transfers are larger where there is a nationalist party asking for money. The proposal for the distribution of funds made by Citizens is that they be determined by the number of visitors to museums, basically because this suppresses the good management and promotes the quality of these spaces; that is, that you do not need to be a nationalist for this Government to listen to you and send funds to your museums. The fact that this government's demands on nationalism are being betrayed by it has just been seen in the Sports Act. They have succumbed to the nationalist framework by which they consider that the Spanish T-shirt does not represent some Spaniards, and it may be the case, for example, that a Rioja Basque ball player finds himself playing in an international competition with the Ikurriña T-shirt and not with that of the Spanish flag. Another of the amendments proposed by Citizens is to promote audiovisual production and the dissemination of Spanish culture abroad. First of all, in the audiovisual sector you know what you have suffered during the pandemic and the help you need, but we also want Spanish culture to be promoted abroad, especially in America. For this reason, I would urge you to approve these amendments, but I also ask you to do something else: that you do not speak ill of Spanish culture, that you protect our culture and that you do not add to the unreaders and censors who want to review everything. You said about Picasso that there were facets of his life that in today's light would be answered. Now we have to check on Picasso? Well, no, Mr. Iceta, and you also know that Picasso is indisputable. Do not join these guardians of the purity of people's lives. Neither you nor I nor any member of the 'podemia' who will now come out here to kick us are anyone to judge the life of one of the most important artists in the world. I do not want a Spain of the old visillo where politicians, the identity movements of turn or the hyper-mobilized minorities are able to question our history of art, our cinema, our music, our science and even our activity in the university. Leave people alone, let them breathe, tulle themselves. You said - I quote literally -: There are facets of Picasso's life that in today's light would be answered. Do you know what a criminal has not painted a good picture in his life, the only relevant thing he has written is a racist column and has facets of his life that in the light of today, yesterday and tomorrow would be answered? Oriol Junqueras. Do you know the life of who has faces that in the light of yesterday, today and tomorrow can be answered? Arnaldo Otegi's. But with this you shut up and well know why. [[The lady]] It is necessary - we say in another of our amendments - to promote Spanish culture abroad, especially in America, and I will explain myself. Well, inside too, because all we had to do was listen to Mr. Pisarello yesterday about a supposed history of Spain. He called genocide upon the arrival of the Spaniards to America and promoted the usual lies that are poured out on the history of Spain. It adds to the sandwiches that many others say, for example, López - López - Obrador. Do you know who wouldn't exist if the Spaniards hadn't gone to America? Mr. Gerardo Pisarello Prados. Moreover, I tell you that all this must be answered in order to answer Mr Pisarello's lies. Who did the most harm to indigenous communities in America? I'm telling you, the Creoles who became independent. Do you know from whom the indigenous people were put in the wars of independence? From the Spanish Crown. Why? Because they knew what they would expect if the nation became independent and knew what the Creoles would do to them. Do you know Mr. Pisarello Prados, a native of Argentina, when the greatest genocide of indigenous people occurred in Argentina? In 1924. Independent Argentina made the Napalpi massacre during which women and children were killed. That's the biggest genocide Argentina has ever known, something that the Spanish Crown never did. See, Mr. Iceta? Members of the Bureau and the Government need to be trained; money is needed for this gentleman to read. And I tell you more things. Mr. Iceta, I've read that they intend to decolonize museums. This task is very easy because I tell you that you are already decolonized. I explained why: because Spain never had colonies, Spain what it did was expand its borders. [[Rumors]] Mexico was called New Spain. In the 16th century the center of the Spanish Empire was Mexico and the Mexicans were Spanish, they were not colonized people. I'm on my way. We have asked you to protect already the pictures of the tomato launchers, these activists from stupidity; for this there is an amendment as well. And I'm done with this last thought. I have seen the people of Bildu celebrate the withdrawal of the Civil Guard in the Government's umpteenth betrayal of the Benemerita. Gentlemen of Bildu, do not celebrate it because the Civil Guard prevails and, if you go back to the walk, the Civil Guard will beat it again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u122	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as I have very little time, I am not going to lose it by responding to the stupidities and delusions of imperialist nostalgia of the spokesman for Citizens, which I assume you will be looking for accommodation in that far right that applauds you. [[applause]] In any case, in relation to the budgets of the Ministry of Culture, what can be said is that they respond to the Spanish brand, but believe me that I do not say it as a compliment, as the previous ones would do. I refer to that Spain that is imposed on us all, built on the culture and the Spanish language and that has as its center this city of Madrid, which functions as a vacuum cleaner of resources and services that we absolutely all pay for. It is a budget that seems to consider only the culture produced in the Spanish language. It seems that the discourse of plurinationality and cultural and linguistic diversity is for better occasions, because it is not reflected at all. You are Catalan, but you seem abducted by Madrid and its dynamics, generously watered with millions the cultural institutions and services that are located here, but being absolutely scarred by the culture that occurs in other territories and in other languages. This is what we wanted to correct with many of the amendments that aim precisely at supporting cinema, the audiovisual sector, culture, language, literature, etc., which are produced in languages such as Galician, Catalan or Basque; or also for consideration in the area of rehabilitation or support to cultural industries...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u124	Mr. Rego, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u125	...the heritage we have in places like my country, Galicia. [[The lady]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u127	[[Place a poster on the speaker's rostrum reading: Cent de Fuster 1922-2022.-Start your intervention in Valencian.-Applause]] Two aphorisms that you will understand. One for the progressives. [[Continue your intervention in Valencian]] Any policy that we do not do will be made against us. And one for this part. [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.- Continues his intervention in Valencian]] Do not make your ignorance an argument. Minister, we voted yes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u128	Wait a minute. Mr. Baldoví, can I have a second? You know that the use of the word is key in this House, it is the key, but not the varied cartelry. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda removes the poster from the rostrum.-Rumores]] Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u129	He was a great intellectual, a great intellectual! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u130	Mr Baldoví, you know that in the Presidency we do not appreciate what you put in the rostrum, but we understand that the content of your words is broad enough and extensive enough for everyone to attend to you. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u131	Minister, we voted yes - we announced yesterday - because I think we have done justice with an amendment for the Federation of Music Societies of the Valencian Community, which supports 550 societies - 95% of Valencian towns and cities have a music society or music school - 43,000 musicians, 60,000 students and more than 200,000 partners. We also believe that we are doing justice with the increase in allocations to Palau de les Arts and IVAM, but we remain short of other large cultural containers. That is why I am only telling you one thing: we would like to see objective criteria in the allocation of games. I ended up because I have very little time left and the president will certainly not give me another second. Dear Minister, I have to recognize it even if it hurts my soul: you dance better than I do. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u133	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Minister, I thank you for your attendance today to explain to us the details of the budgets and those contributions that you have decided to incorporate into your initial project. I start with something that we discussed last year, which is that concept of cultural capitality between Barcelona and Madrid; something that seems to me more than desirable from the cultural point of view, but that is impossible to achieve with what you propose. I don't know if you believe it, but what you're proposing is something like trying to stop a hemorrhage with an ibuprofen, and this is very complicated. I'll give you some figures to see if you share my opinion. You specifically allocate 20 million euros to this co-capitality project; to this you add some more direct contributions to some cultural facilities in the city and outside the city, but basically you allocate 20 million euros to this co-capitality concept. What do they intend to make up for - the same is better to say equal - with those 20 million? A diversion of funds from the point of view of the resources that go to the city of Madrid and that makes Madrid absorb, as has been said here today, large amounts. I'll give you an example. You claim that Barcelona is capital with 20 million; however, only by adding the contributions of the Prado Museum, the Reina Sofía Museum and the Teatro Real you allocate more than 100 million euros to Madrid. So, trying to build a 20 million cultural capital when we just give 100 million to a cultural capital... I know what you'll tell me, they're national equipment. I know that, but what I would answer in this case is that, if you believe that there must be cultural co-capitality, it is also time to define where national equipment should be located. I won't be the one to defend it, because you know what point of view I'm defending in that sense, but if you really defend it, you bet hard on it. Leaving aside this matter, there are some issues that I believe are important and worth noting from the point of view of their contributions. We welcome your contributions to the Fundació Sala Beckett; we also celebrate those of the Fundació la Ciutat Invisible and the Festival Temporada Alta; we welcome the increased contributions to the Gran Teatre del Liceu; we welcome your contributions to the MACBA consortium, although they have remained stable for more than four years in the budgets, and we also welcome the incorporation of some of the amendments that we have tabled. We especially celebrate the contribution to the Peralada Festival, as we believe it is a festival that deserves to be recognized. We also welcome the contributions to the Parc Arqueològic del Pla d'Almatà, which has been a claim of the territory for many years. Finally, Minister, as you know the meaning of my group's vote on these budgets, I wanted to make one last comment. I have no doubt that you are an advocate of the cultural model, of the cultural industry and also of sports and, as a minister, exercises this responsibility. But I have to tell you one thing, Minister: the only stumbling block right now in this country for a new law of sponsorship to help sport, culture and also science - we had the Minister of Universities here a while ago - is this government and the parliamentary group that supports your government. I ask you one thing: please help us to have a law of patronage before the end of this legislature. If it can be the first quarter of the year 2023, we will celebrate it; not only I, but the cultural and sports sectors of this country will applaud you, Minister, and all the parliamentary groups that support your Government if you make this happen. I'm done with this. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Mr. Valentí. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cruz Guzmán García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, culture is adorned in prosperity and shelter in adversity; it has been so, we have taken refuge in it in the pandemic. But for this government it has been a mere adornment, a government that already has three ministers of culture and that brings us these last budgets as disproportionate and ineffective as the crowded empty blue bench of credibility. [[Applauds]] They have won the distrust, as they have won the indignation of the Spaniards with their favors: end the sedition for the independenceists, end the Civil Guard for Bildu and end the embezzlement before the astonished eyes of the Andalusians, to whom we were looted 900 million euros from the public coffers, from the money of the Andalusian unemployed. [[Applauds]] Yes, Mr. Iceta, your self-law has made the lives of many victims worse forever. Never before has a government been seen ruling in favour of criminals rather than protecting victims. [[Applauds]] They're selling us these are historical budgets. And it's that President Sánchez is making history, the worst history in our country. It will leave a legacy of debt that our children's children will have to pay, those to whom they are now trying to buy with 400 euros while they forget that the love of our culture - Gongora, flamenco, flaws or bullfighting - is born in the classrooms. Mr Iceta's star measure has been starred, in the hope that the results accounts of cultural enterprises will improve, ask them, Mr Iceta, to listen. The truth is that your cultural bonus is sold in Wallapop and this ministry can do nothing to control it. It continues with the chaos in its management, as we have seen on the issue of European funds. They had the opportunity to have helped the sector in its structural problems and to create stable employment, but they did not, they created a labor reform that completely forgot culture; to fight against piracy and not to put our languages into a fight; to support the 43 circus companies in Spain and not only those that the Bildu Group sends to them, and, of course, to finish developing the status of the artist who continues to wait for the 700,000 professionals, because they announce to bombo and platter that they will make the non-contributory pension compatible with copyright, but at the same time veto the amendment of the People's Party that could have already made that measure effective. [[Applauds]] Mr Iceta, who are you fooling, cultural professionals or Members of this House? They also lacked the truth when they said that culture would be the lever against depopulation. Therefore, we ask you to support our amendments, to support the national plan for castles, the plan for sacred art or the music bands that articulate, with the same melody, every corner of this country. Do it, because when you do it, you get it right. And, Mr. Iceta, don't aim at so many who aren't yours. In these budgets we have seen an increase from 1.5 % to 2 % because, through the law on support for the cultural sector, the People's Group has managed to adopt an amendment to this increase, an amendment that its group and that of Podemos voted against. [[Applauds]] They're complying with the law and I'm glad you're satisfied, but it's the credit of the People's Party. Culture and books were also regarded as essential goods - nor was this pointed out - and it was achieved that the Flemish tablaos, which this Government has left pulling as it is leaving the Spanish families, had a national rescue plan. But, in addition, they do not know what the 20 million of Barcelona have spent because he answers that he does not know which entities he has gone to. Are the collections of the heritage institute at risk or have they developed the crazy idea of developing new anti-colonialist discourses? The problem is that they still have many months and a lot of money from Spain and the Europeans to continue to do irreparable actions. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has endangered the credibility of the institutions, Mr Iceta. It is not the same to give up the museum of Merida to an electoral event of Yolanda Díaz than to do for an institutional event. Break territorial unity with this unjust distribution, and with uncontrolled and partisan budgets endanger our most precious asset: our culture, identity and history of a unique, creative and unmatched people called Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cruz-Guzman. For the same group, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u137	Thank you very much, President. I support the amendments from Section 24 to Agency 106, Higher Sports Council. Mr Iceta, I will give you the reason for something: these are historical budgets. I really believe that these are historical budgets in the field of sport, but I will tell you why. They are historical because never in the history of our democracy a government dared to sell Spain to carry out budgets and they are historical because never a government of Spain granted competence and capacity to the Basque selections to compete and have international representation at the same level as the Spanish selections. [[applause]] That's why they're historic, not because of what you told us. They have managed to break the Spanish sport unit with these budgets as well. And, look, be careful, because the PSOE tells us: That's not going to happen, Basque selections are never going to compete because we've put two filters in the law, as if the Sports Act were a coffee maker. [[Laughter]] I'm going to give you an example of the first filter, football, which also hits today, right? They say: Don't worry, the international federation, FIFA, prevents Basque teams from competing in football. Is Infantino's FIFA going to save us from playing Basque selections? [[Applauds]] Wait, I'm laughing. And, second filter, they say: If the first filter fails - as in the parachute, the second string - we have the second filter, which is the Government of Spain. They say: In the law we have given the Government of Spain the ability to stop Basque selections from competing. But what kind of scam is this? That is, the very ones who introduce into a law that Basque selections can compete tell us that we are calm because if they come to compete themselves they will prohibit it. This is taking us for fools, Mr. Iceta! [[Laughter]] These budgets are historical and for fools. [[Laughter]] But they're also historical for something we had breakfast with this morning on the cover of a newspaper. [[Show ABC newspaper cover]] They are historic because they help historical leaders of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] And how do they help them? I asked the Secretary of State for Sport. At its Higher Sports Council there are 160,000 euros for an advertising campaign to promote European funds, but there is no such campaign. There are 160,000 euros for a campaign that doesn't exist and we want to know what that campaign is for and who it's going to be for. Today the ABC cover makes it pretty clear. [[shows the cover again]] So they are historical budgets also for something else: because they will be the last that the government of Pedro Sánchez approves before losing the elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u138	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, Mrs García has the floor by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u139	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister. I'm going to make some preliminary considerations before I get into the matter. I also wished the Spanish team luck today at the Qatar World Cup, but I wish the LGBT people living in Qatar better luck, because they play a lot more than a game, they play life, so let's see if we learn to prioritize a little. [[applause]] The second consideration is for your lordship of Citizens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u141	He's dropped a little bit of machismo around here and a little bit more ignorance; we're getting very long his disappearance. I'm on it now. As the Minister has said, the budgets in question represent a historic increase in the quantity, with an increase of 13.5 % -18 billion euros -. We are facing an expansive budget in quantity, but I want to focus on quality too. They are budgets that advance towards the consolidation of culture as a right, without distinction of social class, origin, gender, etc. Because it's not just how many resources we put on the table, but where they go, and where those budgets have to go is to redistributive cultural policies that promote a diverse culture for everyone, where cultural workers can move from the cry of precariousness to the echo of something we're leaving behind. In that, we have to keep moving. We have little time left, minister, for the status of the artist, for whom you will find all our support, and also for the law of cinema, which we hope to approve as soon as possible. We have before us the challenge of budgets that promote equality in the field of culture. I have repeated this many times from this rostrum, as a feminist and cultural worker, I find that there is a great deal of road to go. So we welcome these budgets to reinforce an entity that we defend and claim, the observatory of equality in the field of culture. It seems to us to be a fundamental body with a great deal of potential to carry out truly transformative cultural policies. I recently asked the Government about the Ministry's plans for this equality observatory, and I was told that not only will diagnostics be carried out - for example, a report that will be very useful on the presence of women in the employers' offices, which will be quite revealing of the situation in which we are in - but that targets have also been set for parity in investments, for example in the acquisition of property by museums, which will allocate 40% of their budget to the purchase of works signed by women. Not only does all this seem fundamental to us, but it is of justice. We're talking about something that, let's not forget, is fair. Because, despite some, women are in all cultural sectors. What happens - and there's the data - is that we get paid less, we get exposed less, we get rewarded less. Culture is fundamental to life and our democracy, and it is enough to relegate to a secondary role that neither wants nor should occupy. We live in troubled times: we have been through a pandemic, a war and climate change is of great concern, especially to the new generations. Mental health problems are growing, we have figures in front of us of anxiety and depression that are epidemic figures, and culture is something fundamental to articulate ways to respond to these discomforts, to weave bridges and to face the challenges ahead. Danish writer Isak Dinesen said that every nightmare is bearable when we give it the form of history. That is why it is so important not only to strengthen our libraries, our cinemas, our museums and libraries, but to bring them closer to people. Because the culture of elites, which some promote, is the death of culture by and for the people. In a letter that writer Joseph Brodsky wrote to Czech President Václav Havel asked him to provide all Czech citizens with a book - he proposed Faulkner and Platonov, among others - because he said - and I quote Brodsky -: It is the art where the positive potential of man best manifests itself. I cannot agree more, and I would recommend the same to our President of the Government and to our Minister, but I would add a few women and, in addition, women who write in the different languages of the State. For, as bad as it is for many, our tongues are also our wealth. Therefore, we read and, for example, give to all citizens the last National Narrative Award - Marilar Aleixandre -, Katixa Agirre or Mireia Calafell. The Lord of Citizens told him that he had fallen a little machismo because, in addition to calling me - as he usually calls me - old from the visillo simply because he wanted to exercise my right to critical thinking and to analyze things with a feminist perspective, he has felt the ignorance of saying that the critical look, the look from feminism or from anti-racism is censorship, for it is not that, but that it is the right to exercise critical thinking. Censorship is, yes, against those who are critical, for example, with the Royal House. There's censorship there, and that's what you forget. But there is another type of censorship, which is to which the writer Nadine Gordimer referred when she said: The lack of means of distribution is a type of censorship. That does not make culture only those who have money, that cannot access culture only those who have money, this has to be the objective of these budgets, because classism in culture is censorship. Finally, I would like to add that we have a generational problem when we insult new generations by disregarding their ecological, anti-racist, feminist, and so on. Culture is not ours, it is not one of these 350 Members of Parliament or of the elites to whom some represent. It belongs to all, to all, to young people as well. And this youth is demonstrating that feminism, ecology and anti-racism are paradigms that we are not going to give up and that we are better off taking note of. I'll leave it here. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs García Puig. Mr Ramírez del Río has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u143	Thank you, Madam President. These days they have big surprises for us. Yesterday came a member of the Unidad Podemos with the sickle and the hammer and today they are claiming Václav Havel and, in addition, ET. It seems to us that living with you must be quite a surprise, it must be a real scare. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Finally, it must be very difficult to make budgets with these ideological vavenes persuading them. These budgets brought by the Government show that their only interest is the elections that await us. Since Pedro Sánchez arrived in Moncloa there are one million more people who have lowered the poverty line. The queues of social eaters are getting longer, even many of our friends are having to close their shops in our cities. Therefore, the fact that we meet with this amount of money dedicated to the personal benefit of the President of the Government cannot fail to cause us a great rejection. With this way of using public money, I now truly understand that the condemnation of the corrupt in Andalusia has seemed so bad to them. [[Applauds]] A budget for the Ministry of Culture and Sport of 1804 million euros -1804 million! - should be a great joy for all of us. This is a large amount of money that could correct a large number of problems in the cultural sectors of our country. However, the fact of rewarding your allies has meant that, instead of serving the public interest, we are in debt to keep you in government, which seems to us to be a double punishment for Spain. [[Applauds]] Since we have the European funds, we have warned of the difficulties of managing them. It is very difficult to prevent a part of the European funds being returned; it has historically happened in Spain. That is why it was essential to have the right staff to manage them, and that has not been done. We have been saying this for three years, we told your predecessor three years ago, we told you and the people who came to the Commission last year, and yet nothing has been done about it. The funds for staff have been increased, but for other staff, not for whom it is precisely necessary to help them manage European funds. After the collapse of the PSOE's electoral expectations among the young population, they launched the cultural bonus program. We indicated to them that the design of this cultural bonus was absurd because Gabi, the player from Barcelona, 18 years old, would be able to have access to that bonus and yet a 16-year-old or 20-year-old from Las Tres Mil Híviendas or Las Palmeras, in Córdoba, would not have access, which made people who did not need that bonus at all benefit, while others who did need it urgently could not have access to it. You told us that you would improve the design of the bonus in successive calls. However, nothing has changed at all from the design of the bonus. Moreover, they have rebudgeted the same amount of the previous year, 210 million euros, although they already know at this point that they are going to spend a little more than half of the budget last year, in which they budgeted the same; so it seems to us that they could make much better use of the money. In the sports sector, we have a budget of 315 million euros - which in its ordinary budget is 208 million -, 7 million more than last year. That 7 million euros more is going to go straight to women's sport, which is fine. They put 5 million euros to launch the Women's Professional Football League. However, we have the problem that we have an inflation of 9% in 2022, which means that in real terms investment in sport in Spain is going to decrease a very large amount of money. Because the whole increase is given to funds that are for very specific programmes, special programmes that are to be seen to be carried out. That is why we believe that these budgets pose great dangers to the future of our sports and cultural sectors. And don't tell us you're running it because even your Republican Left partners in Catalonia are telling you that not all these programs are running properly. These budgets had no arrangement from the beginning, it was impossible to amend them; however, those who have tried and tabled amendments have learned in their own right that they only served for the fun of this group of sectarians who have drawn up this budget. However, I believe that the Spanish deserve to know what this money should be devoted to. This money should be dedicated to recovering the more than 1100 monuments on the list of Hispania Nostra that are threatened. Monuments whose collapse makes us a third world country. [[Applauds]] This money should have been dedicated to financing research in archaeological sites, which have barely been excavated and which we have many archaeological fields throughout Spain. That money should have been devoted to promoting the development of audiovisual sectors without sectarianism and without electoralism. They should have made things easier for cultural entrepreneurs. Theater entrepreneurs are paying VAT that is not paid by national theatres and it seems to us that this is unfair competition and that should not be allowed. Entrepreneurs in the world of sports, gyms, are having great problems because all the tax rebate requests we have made have been rejected. We should really invest in high-performance centres and not just half a million euros in these budgets. They should have improved our presence in Hispanic-speaking countries, in Europe and in the United States, because it is essential that our cultural markets be expanded in order to achieve a size that allows them to be profitable. And there are many other things to which this money should have been devoted, money that we hope the Spaniards can see in the future general budgets of the state, when they can forget this ghost government and these budgets of ruin. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Ramírez del Río. The Socialist Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Lamuà Español.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u145	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Look, if Mr. Díaz says he's watering the museums where there are nationalist parties and Mr. Rego tells you that he only invests in the museums of Madrid, because not so much or so little. If a Spanish nationalist points out with a Galician nationalist, it is a sign that you have made a good budget, Mr Miquel Iceta. [[Applauds]] And it is that we have the largest recorded share of Spain's history to Culture and Sport, 1804 million. I know you don't like me repeating it, but it's 1804 million euros and the PP doesn't think much of it. This represents an increase of 13.5 % over last year, thus helping to consolidate the figures of that previous increase and the PP always seems insufficient. That the fund for cinema is extended, so that our country is as competitive as possible in an essential sector for us, for the PP it is an anecdote without importance, nor mention it; that the young cultural bonus can be reissued and thus start the way to establish a new right for our young people, the PP seems opportunistic and poorly executed to try to promote all the languages of Spain - and it is a pride, minister - at the Frankfurt Fair or at the cinema, for the PP is at least a betrayal of Spanish culture. [[The Lord]] One would almost say, minister, that what makes the People's Party more angry is that this is being done by the Socialist Party and not being done. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we do not want to be applauded, but you can come up here and admit that not so bad, that the world is not going to end because they do it from time to time. Because what I'm sure we're not going to do is go back to budgets with a culture trapped and small in a state secretariat; that's hardly what we think. [[Applauds]] Or return to those dwindling cultural budgets, year after year, with the Rajoy governments. Or apply a young bonus, look, like the one that made Feijoo in Galicia. That was a disaster, they are still waiting for someone to be targeted, only 0.8% of the 2.4 million potential beneficiaries requested. That was the success of the cultural bonus in Galicia. And Mrs. Cruz Guzmán, no bulls, too, because then you have the bad habit of asking when you don't rule what you don't rule. In Galicia there were no bulls, but here they complained that they were not. Maybe we should have asked Mr. Feijoo first why he didn't put them on. Or, for example, ignore our cultural plurality and linguistic wealth to make us look like a monolingual country. All this is what you did ruling with your absolute majorities. And it's that, how they weren't going to decimate culture if, on the other hand, they almost broke Spain with the territorial management they did in Catalonia. They did not know how to govern Spain as they did not know how to help their culture. And there they go. We still hope to know if Feijóo knows anything about culture or cares at least. We know that Casado did not like video games and comics, two important industries for Spain. We need to know which cultural industry will now call Feijóo. You can bring him here so that he can tell us about it and show him where the Members of the European Parliament are too. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u147	Thank you, President. Minister, welcome, thank you very much for your explanations. Look, Mr Merino has come up here to make an intervention that is more like a comedy club performance is the best symptom that these are the best budgets in history for sport in our country. [[Applauds]] So, Minister, thank you very much because these are the budgets of hope for sport in Spain. These are the most expansive budgets in the history of sport in our country. And look, ladies and gentlemen, the total budget - as you have said - amounts to EUR 375 million, which is 20% more than in 2022 and 233 million more than when the People's Party ruled in this country. We are talking about a record number, a figure to invest in equality, inclusion, sustainability and, most importantly, a record number to help our athletes face the great sporting events that Spanish sport faces, including the Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what is your alternative? None. You have no alternative, the only thing you have is a model of sports policy that remains the same as you applied during the People's Party government decade and that was based on leaving all our athletes and all our athletes in our country behind. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't care about sport. That's why they make a speech based on lying and screaming. They lie and shout to hide that they have no country plan and that when you have ruled the budget for sport has been cut. Moreover, now that they are in opposition, they still despise our athletes and our sport. That is why they must explain why they are voting against these record budgets for sport in Spain, as well as why they have voted against the Sports Act, a law that recognizes new rights for women sportsmen, the LGBT collective and also for people with disabilities in sport. You owe many explanations to the nearly 5000 high-level athletes in this country. [[Applauds]] I ended, ladies and gentlemen, with three conclusions. The first is that when the PSOE governs sports and sportsmen in this country they do well; the second is that when the People's Party governs the opposite, and the third is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, no matter how much they signal us on social networks, no matter how much they insult us by calling us traitors, we will continue to work to improve the lives of people and the lives of sportsmen and above all to ensure peaceful coexistence in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u148	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate in section 18, Ministry of Education and Vocational Training. The Minister for Education and Vocational Training, on behalf of the Government, has the floor for the section's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, almost good afternoon, to your ladies and gentlemen. I appear before the plenary of this House to report on the draft budgets of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training for the coming year 2023, which corresponds, as the President said, to section 18 of the general budgets of the State. Obviously, the budget of this ministry shares the objectives of the country that marks the Draft Law on General State Budgets by 2023. Education can - it is already making - make an important contribution to the recovery of the economy by increasing the average level of training of the whole population, reducing early school leaving, increasing vocational training graduates and updating and recycling the professional skills of workers. Education also contributes to the transformation of our productive system by creating new vocational training qualifications in cutting-edge technologies and by increasing the digital skills of all pupils. But, being important, I believe that the most valuable contribution should be the provision of a quality public education service that gives all children, all girls and young people the maximum opportunity to develop their abilities and talents to the fullest, regardless of their socio-economic situation and personal circumstances. However, today we are here to talk not only about our purposes, but above all about the resources that we are going to devote to making this all a reality. Of course, I am very pleased as Minister of the Government of Spain to come to this House with the third consecutive budget in time and also in form, which will allow us to continue to make progress in improving our education system. This government is completing one of the most reformist and transformative legislatures of our democracy, because today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a better country, with more rights, more social justice, better public services, more growth and more employment. In that connection, this draft budget also culminates in a period of historic investment in education. It is true that all governments always say that education is a key part of building a future in our country, but not always the facts accompany good intentions. That can easily be understood with a single data. In 2018, the Ministry of Education invested in Spain for each student, for each student, 315 euros - in 2018, 315 euros per student - while today, in 2023, this government, the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, invests in each student, in each student, 634 euros, more than double. In 2018, 315 euros; in 2023, 634 euros. [[Applauds]] The opinion before the plenary for its vote also provides for a budget of EUR 6408 million, which is 6.15% more than the financial year 2022. Of this total, 5122 million go to education policies, 1252 to training for employment and over 11 million to education abroad. As for the sources of funding, the project includes 1264 million European funds, which makes the national financing of our budget amount to 5144 million, with an increase of 17.35 %. In addition, in the initial section of the large numbers of budgets, it is noteworthy that more than a third of them will be channelled through transfers to the autonomous communities, with a figure of 2350 million euros. Although then, logically, I will go further in this respect, I cannot fail to mention here the departure of the most significant ministry for its amount, that of scholarships and study grants, with a total of 2549 million euros; that is, we will devote 4 out of 10 euros to equal opportunities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this budget consolidates a legislature in which the foundations have been laid for Spain to get closer to the level of educational investment that we have as one of the most important countries in Europe. Leaving behind the explanation of the large numbers, I shall now point out to you the specific objectives and priorities of our budget for 2023. As you are well aware, we have been giving strategic impetus throughout the whole legislature to four lines of action: the reform and modernisation of the education system, the strengthening of policies of equity and the compensation of inequalities, the profound transformation of vocational training and, finally, digitalisation. With regard to the reform and modernization of the education system, it is mainly based on normative work and negotiation with the autonomous communities and other stakeholders. And the other three strategic lines I have mentioned also have a very prominent presence in the budgets of 2023. With regard to the strengthening of policies on equity and the compensation of inequalities, it will absorb 45% of the department's budget. As I have just said, scholarship policy is undoubtedly the flagship of this department, with the significant increase proposed for 2023 of an additional 18.62%, with a total figure of up to EUR 2549 million. This remarkable increase is part of the measures that the Government has been adopting over the course of this year to alleviate the effects of inflation on family economies, which in this case allow the goal of no student having to leave school because of the crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. Fellowships are one of the main instruments to ensure access to education at non-compulsory stages and are one of the mechanisms that make real equality of opportunity for study possible. The effort made by this Government is indisputable. In 2023, the scholarship budget will be 66% higher than in 2018. [[Applauds]] We are talking about an additional 1 billion in 2023 over what was invested in 2018. In addition to a much higher amount, there has been an increase in the number of beneficiaries, and at the moment we are talking about almost a million young people accessing scholarships. We have also increased the average amount of aid, especially for young people in rural areas with displacement needs, and the application and grant process has also been speeded up, so that from this course all students, before enrolling, know whether they meet the economic requirements for scholarship. Apart from scholarships, there are other aid programmes, among which I would like to highlight that the textbook coverage programme will be increased by EUR 10 million, which will reach EUR 58 million. In addition to the effort to ensure access to education in the mandatory stages, it is equally important to provide compensatory support and reinforcements that facilitate the learning of all our students, overcoming the difficulties they may have for socio-economic reasons or for personal and family circumstances. To make this true inclusive and equitable education possible, the budget also includes a very positive impact on what we know as the PROA programme, which will have a budget of more than EUR 120 million for educational reinforcement actions in centres of special complexity, as well as the programme for the creation of units of personal and family support and guidance, with almost EUR 56 million, with which it is expected to create a thousand new units of guidance. We will also continue with the programme for the creation of places in the first cycle of children's education, which will be endowed with 136 million euros, and we also include important mechanisms for inclusion and equity, such as educational inclusion and emotional well-being programmes, which will have 37 million euros and 5 million euros respectively. The second strategic objective of our action in budgetary terms is to transform and modernise vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware of the broad social, business and educational support this structural reform has gained, which will also serve to provide access to quality employment for thousands of young people and also to enable companies to find those professional profiles that are now lacking. In addition, integration into this unique system of vocational education and employment training has created a much more effective and coherent scheme to enable the continuing training of all workers in our country. That is why we can say that vocational training has become a fundamental strategy for growth and employment. That is why it is also one of the great milestones of this legislature, and this has been reflected in the budgets since 2021. For this 2023 the total resources to be allocated for this purpose for vocational training amount to EUR 2401 million, representing more than 37% of the overall budget of the department. Of this amount, EUR 947 million will be financed through European funds, while EUR 1178 million will be earmarked for training measures for workers and EUR 276 million for vocational training measures for young people. Among the objectives to be achieved with this budget in 2023, in the field of vocational training we can highlight the creation, at least, of 50 500 new vocational training places and the conversion into bilingual of 37,000 others, opening at least seven hundred Mentor classrooms in municipalities with less than five thousand inhabitants, the creation of 180 digital simulators, publishing twenty new titles and specialization courses, opening 450 entrepreneurship classrooms, adapting a minimum of 213 applied technology classrooms, accrediting skills acquired by work experience to at least five hundred thousand people or training 125,000 active digital workers. Finally, the department's third strategic objective in budgetary terms is digitization, which has also become an essential process for all educational systems. To this end, we will allocate more than EUR 550 million in this budget year. This budget also includes as the main innovation the programme School Code 4.0, which will have a budget of 300 million euros and whose lines of action will be the necessary equipment for programming and robotics in all the centers from children to secondary education, the specialized accompaniment of the teacher of children and primary in the teaching hours of programming, computational and robotic thinking and the elaboration of digital resources and teacher training. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about general state budgets that raise a historical maximum in social spending and, therefore, also in education. In this context, we can be proud that education has preferential budgetary treatment, which corresponds to the needs of the country and the aspirations of the majority of our society. Our education system has improved a lot, mainly thanks to the work of the more than seven hundred thousand teachers and the continuous effort of the more than eight million students of our country, but we continue to have unalterable tasks to address in order to achieve this definitive educational convergence with the leading countries of Europe. In the last three years we will have invested more in education than in the last seven years of the previous stage, even without taking account of European funds or training for employment. That is the level of investment effort that our education needs and that must continue to achieve our goals as a country. In addition, the significant improvement in autonomous funding that all autonomous communities will have in the year 2023 will undoubtedly help to maintain this road map in favour of better education for all. That is why I ask you to support this draft budget for 2023. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u150	Thank you very much. In defence of amendments, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u151	Thank you, President. Minister, in Citizens we have always argued that we must have a greater investment in education today because it is necessary to fulfil our commitment to future generations. To this end, we need to overcome the major gaps and obstacles that we continue to encounter in national education. I have always said that this goes through quality education and ensuring educational equity. I think there are great challenges ahead, that great combination of quality and equity. It is therefore vital to invest more resources and evaluate them in an appropriate way in order to have effective educational policies to address such relevant subjects as drop-out and school failure. I would like us to go deeper into our figures in this area, in terms of school failure and drop-out, which I think are still worrying. Despite the improvements experienced, Spain has the second highest school drop-out rate in the whole of the European Union, only behind Romania. When we talk about school failure data, in the latest data we have, from 2021, 13.3% of Spanish youth between eighteen and twenty-four years of age had not completed second-stage secondary education and did not follow any form of training. I therefore believe that it is very clear that we have two major challenges in the field of education: school dropout and school failure. That is why we have to ask the Government whether, beyond the increase in the allocation of the PROA programme, they will actually propose monitoring and evaluation tools for these programmes, because if we do not have good monitoring and evaluation tools for these programmes - and the figures are what they are - we will be at best putting resources and we will not be responding to those children, to those students, to those students, who really need efficient intervention in the field of education. The failure at school I think is the main problem that our country has, but also for one thing, and with the minister we have talked on some occasions and you know it already. Who does school failure affect? It greatly affects those children who come from families with vulnerable socio-educational conditions. Therefore, in Spain, being born in one family or another increases the chances of dropping out of school sooner, the greater situation of inequality of opportunities that we must denounce, that a child living in vulnerable socio-economic conditions will not be guaranteed quality education and educational equity. From Citizens we have tabled an amendment to put in place a program of individualized tutorials that has already shown good results where it has been implemented, and we hope that it will be accepted. It is a concrete amendment to the field of school failure - the Mentor programme - and we hope that it will have the support of the various parliamentary groups. With regard to the budget line which has been devoted to teacher training, we believe that it is not yet a sufficient line. Tools for two issues should be improved. On the one hand, it is necessary to have a highly trained teacher to address school failure and to address the diversity of classrooms and, on the other, to improve language skills in foreign languages. That is why we have tabled an amendment to help train teachers on an ongoing basis, to improve the quality of our education system and also as a tool to reduce school failure rates. Nor do we understand why the Government vetoes what we propose in relation to an educational mir. It is something that would improve the training of our teachers and has been vetoed. Another point that has been discussed on many occasions, and sometimes does not like to talk, is the high figures we have in our educational system of school segregation. You know perfectly well the last study that has been published by the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation. It can be seen how in all our cities of Spain there are still centers of high concentration of gypsy students, of immigrant students, but sometimes they are of these structural realities of inequality that really seem to have no political color of defense because nobody defends them. Actually, what happens is that we look elsewhere on issues related to school segregation. What measures are you thinking specifically to address this great problem of school failure, as I said before, and this great problem of school segregation? I believe that these are the major obstacles to inequality of opportunity, which unfortunately also affects children in vulnerable situations. That is why we have tabled an amendment to encourage partnerships between institutions of excellence and highly complex educational institutions, something similar to what is being developed in Catalonia, such as the Magnet programme, which we believe would be a beneficial good practice to extend to the rest of Spain. On the other hand, these budgets are also talking about the increase in the number of scholarships and study grants. But are we really assessing who these aids are reaching? We want to make it clear that the middle classes also need grants, study grants. They are the propagators, whom Citizens say they do not receive any support either in the educational field; they do not receive it in the housing field, they do not receive it in the field of any benefit, they do not receive it in the electrical social bonus and they do not receive it in the field of education. On the other hand, we believe that the need for evaluation and monitoring is very important, and we are defending the need to create an agency to ensure the continuous and independent evaluation of public policies in the field of education, given the great importance of this subject and the very high number of resources we devote to it. An assessment is good to know if our results are being rigorous enough. Finally, we also talk about child poverty in education. We know it's 29%. Given this reality, we do not understand how the Government that calls itself the most social government in history vetoes an amendment to implement a plan for access to the school cafeteria in the stages of childhood education and primary education. Right now only 11% of children at these stages receive school meals when we know that many families, because of the inflation situation, because of the need situation they are going through, cannot afford it. We cannot consent to a child in Spain who does not receive adequate food because of his or her economic situation at home. We have put an amendment at your disposal, but it has been vetoed. We hope that the amendments we have pending will be accepted. We also consider the veto on the Independent Agency of the High Educational Inspectorate to be important. This would require vigilance and no political propaganda or referral to children either on the basis of their family or on the basis of their language, because we are seeing how education is used to indoctrinate in many centres, especially in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u152	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u153	Therefore, Citizens will follow in a proactive way and what we regret is that in the educational field, simply because they are proposed by Citizens, our amendments are vetoed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u154	Thank you. Mr Clavell López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u155	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to endorse all the amendments tabled by my group to section 18. And speaking in general terms, we are once again faced with false budgets, with incorrect forecasts, as all national and international bodies say. As in recent years, Sánchez uses budgets as a currency exchange with his dangerous partners to continue in Moncloa, as he did with LOMLOU in 2021. And education could not be less and again become a victim of their government actions. Little - or rather nothing - they care about the gratuity of the first cycle of child education and its plural offer; little - or rather nothing - they care about the freedom of parents to choose the education they want for their children; little - or rather nothing - they care about the creation of an interterritorial cohesion fund that eliminates inequalities between students; little - or rather nothing - they care about the territorial cooperation programme that guarantees, among other things, the school dining room for pupils at risk of social exclusion; little - or rather nothing - they care about complementary scholarships for all - I insist, all - students, without age limits, and for the whole course; little - or rather nothing - they care about supporting SMEs to ensure that vocational training students can carry out their training practices. By the way, Minister, the timetable for the vocational training law is still unapproved and out of date. Another breach. And all these initiatives are some of the amendments that we are not even allowed to debate and vote in this budget debate because the Government, its Government, the Government of Sánchez, has decided to veto them. One more example of their undemocratic mentality. [[Applauds]] These budgets do not provide for a sufficient increase in the cost of living, nor for the increase in education expenditure to be borne by families. As a clear example, their proposed increase in schoolbook grants corresponds to a fifth of what the People's Party announced. The amount they enter will not cover the most expensive course in history, coupled with the obligatory book exchange for the new contents of LOMLOU, as well as the allocations to co-finance transportation or school dining. Socialists, you are going to be complicit in the marketing and barbarity that is going to be committed against the Spanish education system simply to get the numbers out and approve these budgets and stay a few more months in the government. Now, Mrs. Alegría, I will address you personally, as the chief minister and, therefore, the origin of all evils. For the teacher, an essential element par excellence in improving the quality of the education system, there is not an adequate endowment for the proposal concerning initial and continuing training, without prejudice to digital and computational training, and to the professional development teaching that the ministry, your ministry, you, announced would present in 2022. Another breach, Mrs. Joy. These budgets do not take into account one of the best tools the State has to carry out its educational functions, such as the High Inspectorate. It continues to marginalize for the use and enjoyment of its partners and in this way continue to camp to its wide, destroying the equal rights and opportunities of any student, resides where he resides. [[Applauds]] Will the Government, your Government, continue, allowing the rights of hundreds of thousands of students who are deprived of studying in the official language of the entire State to be trampled on? What do you have to tell us about the pact between the Catalan Autonomous Government and Pedro Sánchez in order not to challenge the laws and avoid the 25 % court ruling? Are you going to be a guarantor of these rights or on the contrary, as you are doing so far, will you look elsewhere for the tranquility of the independenceists? [[Applauds]] On the other hand, we are seeing over the last few days how your proposal for a new EvAU crumbles for moments. His maturity test has generated harsh criticism from universities, historians, philosophers, the RAE, the Institut d'Estudis Catalans, philologists, coordinators of the Spanish language exam and literature. By the way, Mr. Mena, I don't know if you'll talk next. You, who always presume to be a philologist - and do very well - what do you think of your colleagues? What do you think of your mates? Are they fascists who think that the test of maturity is a misconception for the national education system? I'd like you to answer me when you get up here. [[Applauds]] Minister, in this way attacking Spanish philology and language and literature, how will it surprise us to misconjugate verbs? Is that what you're trying to do? Following the principle of equality among all students and after all these criticisms, will they be able to create a single test, as requested by the People's Party or, as in the case of the Spanish, will they yield once again to their partners? Let's talk about scholarships, Minister. They repeatedly show the budget line, but what is the reality? Their changes in the scholarship system and the Government's promise have failed. Students don't know when or how they're going to get the scholarship at this point, Minister. Finally, I would like to say that to approve these budgets is to offer a blank cheque to a government that has so far, with its actions, only benefited or seeks to benefit independenceists, embezzlers, ukupas and sexual aggressors. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u156	Thank you. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech yesterday I spoke about the capacity for dialogue, about the ability to reach agreements, the value of the work we do in this House, the impact it has on the lives of citizens, and I also talked about two star measures that occupied front pages, radio interviews and which were very valuable. But, for me, there is much more to this whole negotiation that we have achieved for the Canarian families, and in this section I am very proud of the point that we have managed to make. We have managed to start a basic point, because there is no greater social cohesion, social justice and future, regardless of where one is born, which has the same educational opportunities as all on equal terms. That is why we managed to place a zero-euro item of EUR 2 million. For what? For the mobility of students, so that they live where they live, are born where they are born, have the same educational and future opportunities that they want and deserve. I will not tire of repeating in this House that we have a reality that impacts us from the moment we get up until we lie down, from the moment we are born until we die: our provinces are divided into islands. This is not like being born in Manresa and going to study in Barcelona every day or from Ávila to Madrid; our provinces are islands, and being born on an island like Fuerteventura, Lanzarote, El Hierro, La Palma, La Gomera, La Graciosa, limited the right and future of many very young people, and with a match as it is we managed to do something very positive: social cohesion and future. And there's a reality, and it's that even though they don't take cover or open information with this game or with this news, for us it was a red line that young Canarians had guaranteed their rights to study, were born in the place they were born. Taking advantage of this point, talking about social cohesion, about the future, about studies, although I know that it is a little bit much more than the subject we are dealing with, I am going to talk about universities. Canarian universities don't have money to pay for payrolls. These are not my words, they are the words that LLuís Serra has literally said, rector of the University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. This is the situation that universities in the Canary Islands have: they have no money to pay the payroll. And it's not just the University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, the rector of the University of La Laguna also came out. Why? For the continued failure of the Government of the Canary Islands to comply with what it had promised at the beginning of the legislature to provide funds in order to be able to pay structural expenses. I remember, recently arrived in this House - in fact, it was my second intervention - that we were talking about the Law on Science, Innovation and Research and I supported the Government, because what was being asked was some justice, the same rights for Spanish researchers and scientists as the rest of the workers. It was a bit of justice, but I also warned the Government that it is not a blank cheque; because, yes, to have excellence in research and to have a future, labor rights were needed, but funds were also needed for universities and centres of excellence. We cannot fight with one hand for rights and with the other withdraw funding from these training centres, universities and centres of excellence, it is essential to guarantee. That is why I am also very proud of another 3 million amendment for the Canarian universities, which is an oxygen balloon for this unfortunate situation they are living in. I know we're far from ideal. This is not ideal. We still have a long way to go, but this is a great success if we consider that these items that I have just mentioned were zero euros. We have managed to move from EUR zero for study, training, future and mobility to more than EUR 5 million. That is a success that is due to dialogue and that this political formation has demonstrated with work that it is always thinking about the future of families and new generations in the Canary Islands. By the way, I say this from zero to several million euros, it is important to stress that in this negotiation we have achieved that there is not a single part of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands to zero, there is not a single part of steel; we have managed to provide all these tools of justice, cohesion and social equality for some islands that we find there in the middle of the Atlantic and to make this crisis situation that is affecting us more manageable. Finally, I wanted to highlight these amendments today because education is essential for us. Education is the tool of the future, to generate opportunities in our land and, of course, for new generations, who deserve the same conditions, born where they are born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u158	Thank you. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u159	It seems that there has been another fire today, because I do not see senators of the People's Party here in this plenary. [[Laughter and applause]] Anyway, thank you, Mr. President. Today I wanted to begin by explaining to you that yesterday I had the opportunity to present in Sabadell, my city, the book Dear Families, of my friend and former mayor of Sant Feliu de Llobregat, Jordi San José, which talks about family diversity and the social function of schools. The book begins with a phrase, a Chinese proverb that says, "Makes a tree sound more like a cau tree than a hundred when they grow up." A tree makes more noise when it falls, than a hundred when it grows. And to the right is just what happens to them: they use education to make noise, to generate tension and to feed the chryspation, because they don't have an educational model for Spain beyond snoring and noise. They do as with territorial plurality, as I reminded them yesterday. What should unite us - education, cultural or linguistic plurality - is used by you as a bold weapon, as Mr Clavell once again did this morning. Despite this, this Government is clear that families must also be protected through school, because after the last economic and financial crisis managed by the People's Party, which suffocated the Spaniards, expelled them from public universities and cut off fundamental rights such as education, health or public pensions, this Government is going the other way, to save this crisis from the COVID-19 and the war in Ukraine. This budget shows an increase of 6.6% in educational policies compared to 2022, and pays particular attention to scholarships and vocational training, which become the majority budget. That is why the right-wings never come to the Education Commission to talk about this. They speak of the language, of Catalan, of indoctrination or of the fights of flags, and these budgets have as fundamental objective that the law of education that has approved this Congress, the LOMLOU, reach each of the desks of schools in Spain. There are four fundamental elements. The first is the public education bet. LOMLOU determines that the education system has an obligation to progressively increase the supply of public places. Therefore, I do not understand or share that Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia asks in an amendment to increase educational concerts to private schools. They are again mistaken - as Mr Cambray does in Catalonia - when they look like Junts per Catalunya. Because now is the time of public school, it is the time to reverse the ideological cuts of the People's Party in Spain and Convergence in Catalonia, and not to extend neoliberal policies that somehow eat public education. [[Applauds]] Nor are the policies of Mrs Ayuso, who has not had enough to offer educational scholarships to the rich and now wants to give public land to private schools, as will happen in Valdebebas and in the Ensanche de Vallecas. That is exactly what the LOMLOU wants to avoid, and that is precisely the false freedom of choice that the People's Party always talks about. Secondly, the guarantee of extension of public education 03, with the aim of avoiding that there are communities - such as Andalusia, Murcia or Madrid - that intend to disobey the law by also concluding private in the places of Children's Education. It is also committed to inclusive education, despite all the lies that we had to endure from the right when they wanted to install that mantra during the LOMLOU process. Finally, the law also designed an educational curriculum incorporating key elements such as sex education, taxation, animal empathy or LGBT rights. Because a good student, ladies and gentlemen, is not only the one who gets the best grades, but also the one who treats his peers best, and this is also how the Spanish education system has to go. I want to highlight precisely this point. I will tell you one thing: as much as you insult the Minister of Equality, you are guiding the adoption of a law that the Prosecutor's Office has clearly interpreted, you will not stop the feminist advances that are already taking place in this country. [[Applauds]] Because the fear of these advances makes you seek to raise the decibels of political noise by attacking Minister Montero. Because it's weekday you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. On Monday they hung a shameful tweet alluding to the National Lottery and trivializing the victims of sexual assaults. In case you didn't have enough, then you went to the European Union to make a fool of yourself again - you are on the list of ridicules of the European Union - where you didn't pay any attention to them in their attempt to overthrow the law of the alone is yes, because it is the law that justly protects the women of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, for your sake, stop being ridiculous in Spain and in Europe. Here we understand that Mr. Feijoo's role has been to replace Mr. Rajoy's memes. He's already earning it; it's been a short time and he's already had many more memes than Mr. Rajoy was wearing. Obviously, that, for the People's Party, is a more ridiculous demonstration. I ended up just like I started. Ladies and gentlemen, stop cutting those trees to make noise and help us plant hundreds of new trees to protect families who need it the most, as do the Spanish education system and these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, stop talking about equity, because there is no equity in the Spanish education system, as we have repeated many times. The transfer of education competence to the autonomous communities means that we are currently talking only about about 6% of all that is invested in education in Spain. The Ministry of Education is perhaps one of the most representative entities in terms of educational management and, as the years progress, inequality increases. [[applause]] It is unjustifiable that the investment is up to 60% higher in some autonomous communities or that at the beginning of the most expensive course for inflation triggered, which also affects books, school materials and uniforms, textbooks are still funded in some communities yes and others not, when with half of the budget of the Ministry of Equality all this expenditure in primary school could be covered. But these budgets also deepen the inequality of knowledge, as they do not allocate a single resource to ensure something as elementary as schooling in Spanish throughout the national territory, because with the competence of transferred education the Government disagrees and does not even act when it has a small margin. [[applause]] Because why does it not activate compensation mechanisms through cohesion funds to correct the inequalities generated by the autonomous system? Actually, minister, it doesn't matter what we talk about because you, also in the educational sector, are focused on resilience, skills, gender, climate, green transformation and mudOS of the 2030 Agenda, because, for you, ensuring that everyone knows our common language and history, access to university is fair for everyone or the freedom of parents to educate their children according to your convictions are minor issues on which you do not consider investing resources. [[Applauds]] In fact, the only thing his Government assures is indoctrination for all. Moreover, with these budgets, once again the most vulnerable and least resourced remain abandoned by his Government. Their mouths are filled and they are used for inclusive education, when in VOX we do not stop meeting with families with children with special educational needs absolutely underserved and victims of legislation that are made without thinking about their beneficiaries and their families. [[Applauds]] So please do not say, as they say, that budgets have the focus on people and attention to the well-being of education. Because when you talk about the well-being of education you are distorting the reality of our students and young people by selling them the idea that their well-being passes by living comfortably and effortlessly and, to be able, subsidized. Let the children go happy to school, something legitimate that we all want for our children, has nothing to do with what you are converting it and where the budget headings go, a kind of theme park that forgets that the essentials of the school is the transmission and acquisition of knowledge. Minister, you have forgotten that it is in that process, in that of the transmission of knowledge, when the formation of the person comes into play and, with it, many variables - emotional is one, but it is not the only one - that contribute to forging character; formation that should aim at a successful life. Education, any good teacher knows, is a balance between knowledge, effort, motivation, emotion, frustration, overcoming, joy, the acquisition of habits and virtues. The problem of this Government, of this legislation, of these budgets, is that they turn peripheral issues into central issues, relying on competitive learning, that vague and diffuse concept that they use for everything and that nobody really knows what it is; that jargon that even the RAE academics do not accept, as they recently indicated in an information note on the new selectivity. And he quoted the RAE: the ministerial text reiterated in several sections the importance of teaching and evaluating in a competitive way, but it does not clarify exactly what competencies are supposed to be essential, nor does it explain why their acquisition should be opposed to the knowledge of the contents that have so far been considered essential. And there's nothing you can do right! They initiate a reform of selectivity and, instead of going to the essentials, which is a unique selectivity for all Spaniards, what they do are experiments and turn, for example, the Castilian Language test into something similar to a self-school test. Finally, with regard to the quality of education, the great novelty that they bring us in these budgets - you say - is to bet heavily on the digital support of the system, which in fact is a bet for indiscriminate, hasty and unseen digitisation of needs for a system that is already devalued, and that is simply to throw away public money. These budgets are a renunciation of education as a social lift. Who do companies hire in the coming years if we have not asked our young people for minimums in reading, reflection, argumentation, operations, mathematics, writing skills? Not to mention the industrial fabric, because at least the fate of the huge investment in Vocational Training, more than EUR 2 billion, should be reconsidered, when in parallel we see no part to enhance the reindustrialisation of Spain. Nor do we see a determined impulse to tackle school drop-out in a general way, where Spain, unfortunately, remains at the head of Europe. It is urgent, Minister, to focus on the important. What is it going to do for many in the ESO or for them to approve selectivity if they do not know how to read an instruction manual, if they do not hold three pages in a row of reading? And what will happen to so many students in public school who without mercy are inoculated degenerate ideology when what they need is, along with knowledge, rapport, family and stability? Who's going to give hope to those students and those families? [[Applauds]] Minister, to form free men and women, we must aim at the good and the truth, the merit, the value of the effort, the work, the excellence of the faculty, and to renounce all sectarian and destructive ideologies; to stop investing millions for cross-sectional education with gender ideology; to stop investing millions to erase our history from the memory of our young people in the name of democratic memory; to stop investing millions to encourage children and young people to doubt their identity and, fearlessly, change their sex; to stop investing millions to approve everyone for ever less knowing; to stop investing millions for inclusive education that ends with special education; to stop investing millions to ruin thousands of children's schools that have been running for years.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u162	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u163	To stop investing millions, ultimately, in order to put an end to the freedom of education and to impose, increasingly blatantly, that communist totalitarianism that equals us all in the misery and danger of opportunities that could thrive. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u164	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u165	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. How little does it surprise us that the People's Party and VOX speak once again of the usual, of their mantras, rather than of the truly important thing, which is education and these budgets. I understand that it is hard for you to recognize how magnificent these budgets are compared to the last ones that you have dealt with, which these, of course, are turning a thousand times. Don't they get tired of repeating so many lies over and over again, that catastrophic speech? Too bad they don't bring anything constructive to Spanish education! Because not, because his speech is that of the stagnation of education in the 1970s, not to recognize the pedagogical advances, as once again today have made us clear. His speech is the rejection of equal opportunities, the rejection of the democratization of education, his rejection of diversity in the classrooms, the desire for a uniform society, of those master classes from the top that were aimed at a student or groups of students that no longer exist today. Because to see if you realize that the Spanish classrooms are not full of elites that you exclusively defend, but that the majority of students are not elites, and those mainly are those who have to pay attention, especially our educational system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] So I would ask you to stop being anchored in the past and come to the present and look also towards the education of the future, and that is what these budgets are about. Despite the People's Party, our education, ladies and gentlemen - I am sorry to tell you - has evolved, and we must also tell Mrs Trias, because, far from what you have said that inequalities have increased with the policies carried out by the autonomous communities, it is quite the opposite. I tell you to look at the data that reflect the reality: there has been an increase in the levels of schooling in Spain; there has been an increase in the percentages of school success at all levels of education; there has, of course, been an increase in the percentage of students who have been able to reach higher education thanks to this policy of scholarships and study aids which, thanks to the socialist governments, have allowed millions of students to pass through Spanish universities and which today can have a decent job, which have allowed this social lift to which we all have to pay all the attention of the world to get out of these inequalities to which you referred, and it has been thanks to the policies of scholarships and study aids. [[applause]] Mr Clavell, today you are going to vote against the EUR 25 billion for scholarships and study grants; you are going to vote against the equal opportunities that guarantee the right to education of those truly vulnerable pupils, not those to whom you allocate resources, as is the case in the Madrid Community, which provides resources to those who do not need them. And for that there is this government, to pay attention to those who truly need it. It is also necessary to increase the number of places for children's education, public places, because the only thing you defend is privatization, privatization and the allocation of European funds to direct support for families. And I do not know whether they have realised that European funds cannot go that way, that they cannot go to direct support for families, because what is at stake is to create aid to create public places that remain in time and do not disappear. I would recommend that you at least see what the management of European funds is before submitting amendments such as those that you have tabled. They also vote against the EUR 1 billion earmarked for the Autonomous Communities; of those EUR 136 million for children's education places; of those EUR 177 million for vulnerable pupils - referred to earlier by Mrs Giménez - through the PROA programme and the accompanying units. And, by voting against, you are voting against the future, digitalisation, digital skills through the Code School 4.0 programme, because you are still installed in the past, ladies and gentlemen. They also vote against the emotional well-being program and educational inclusion, a much-needed emotional well-being program in our society and in educational institutions today, with all the mental health problems that our young people, teenagers, are facing. How they voted against the Vocational Training Act without arguments. On the one hand, its advisers continue to praise all the measures of the Vocational Training Act, continue to praise Dual Vocational Training, continue to praise each of the measures adopted by the Act and, by the way, approve all the measures proposed by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training at the sectoral conference. But, of course, you always do: negationism, rejection by system. Well, look, they are going to vote against the EUR 2397 million earmarked for vocational training, for the internationalisation of VET, for the innovation of VET, for VET for employment and also for the creation of vocational training places. Or is it that their autonomous communities are against creating FP squares? Is Mrs Ayuso against the creation of vocational training places with the funds and resources of the Ministry of Education, when in the Community of Madrid there are more than 25,000 places for young people in this community? [[Applauds]] Anyway, explain it to me. They are going to vote against the Mentor Classrooms and they are going to vote against the digitisation of vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to vote against the creation of the 230,000 places already created by this government to improve vocational training in this country, and you are going to vote against the accreditation of the competences of the adult population. Finally, explain to society, explain to entrepreneurs, explain to the hundreds of thousands of young people who want to have guaranteed a place of Vocational Training today. Nor do they agree with the educational action abroad, 110 million euros for collaboration, educational programs and the promotion of Spanish in other countries; against the collaboration so that Spain can participate in international educational programs or evaluation programs such as PISA or THALES. Look, by focusing on some of the amendments, you have alluded to the textbooks. They ask for an increase, but this ministry has already increased 10 million euros. What I am going to ask you to do is to clarify yourselves, to really clarify yourselves, because here you ask us to increase resources but where you govern - the model Mr Feijóo in Galicia- results that eliminates the aids for textbooks.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u166	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u167	Finished. They're telling us again about the high inspection. Let's see if they are already clear that all they do is go back to the model, like VOX, of educational decentralization. In short, ladies and gentlemen, they want to vote against budgets that are very important and with incredible funding, because they will also have a new historical record, 400 million more than last year, and that truly respond to the needs that Spanish education has today and not its accounts, to which we are already accustomed, which do not improve and, of course, the only thing they do is to disinvest in education, as they have already shown in the years in which they were in the Government of Spain. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u168	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate in section 27, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u169	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House today to explain section 27 of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for 2023. Before I enter the digital field, I would like to share with your ladies and gentlemen a couple of thoughts on the debate and the vote that is to take place this week. And it is that these are fundamental budgets in order to be able to continue to deploy the investments of the recovery plan financed from the European funds Next Generation, in order to be able to continue to strengthen our welfare state and also to continue on the path of fiscal responsibility in a way compatible with economic growth and job creation; the path that we have already started last year. In these times so convulsed worldwide, marked by war, geopolitical tensions, turbulence in the energy and raw materials markets, the change in the sign of monetary policy and high uncertainty, it is more important than ever to have approved budgets in time and form, which send a clear message, giving certainty to international investors, to our partners, to international bodies, to companies and to citizens as a whole. And it is that political stability is an asset, and the Spanish Government has been building in these four years to have a positive balance today, with a coherent and balanced economic policy based on fiscal responsibility, social justice, progressive structural reforms; an economic policy that is well understood and supported by international agencies and markets. We say what we do and we do what we say. We approve the annual budgets in time and form. We meet our deficit and debt targets. We support strategic investments in our country. We acted effectively and decisively to solve the problems, trying to anticipate, as we did with the pandemic, and we are doing it again now, taking measures to contain the rise in prices, and yesterday to relieve families who may be most affected by the rise in mortgages. In short, Spain is at the moment a benchmark of stability and confidence in Europe, very important values in these times. In this context, all the estimates, all the agencies, coincide in the strong growth of the Spanish economy driven by the extraordinary behavior of the labour market, the good performance of the external sector and the dynamism of investment. Without going any further, yesterday the OECD revised the growth forecast for Spain up to 4.7% in 2022. [[Applauds]] 4.7%, above that of the Spanish Government itself. By 2023 the forecast is that the Spanish economy will continue to grow above the euro area average and its main partners. But, ladies and gentlemen, 4.7% is a strong growth of the Spanish economy, something that should give us confidence and satisfaction to all who want our country. The great uncertainty that we are experiencing today is leading to constant revisions of the forecasts, and that is why we have drawn up particularly prudent budgets, with a low income forecast, with a room for manoeuvre to respond to any scenario that may arise from the war in Ukraine, while continuing on the path of stability and fiscal consolidation. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the annual approval of the general budgets of the State cannot be minimized, because this approval gives our country economic stability and our citizens social protection. Having general state budgets approved in time and form, approved and validated by the European Commission, is a very valuable intangible in economic policy. The other ministers have already spoken in detail about the record investment in scholarships for our students in Vocational Training - just mentioned in the previous debate - the increase in pensions, the freeness of public transport in the vicinity and the boost to sustainable mobility, the investments in the recovery plan to boost the green transition, and I will focus on the field of digital transformation, which is one of the fundamental axes for the modernization of our country at this time of intense technological change. As you know, our roadmap is part of the Digital Spain agenda, adopted in 2020 and updated in July of this year 2022, which has been definitely promoted thanks to the European funds Next Generation. We have already launched the main investment programmes in a triple area. First, infrastructure and technology, with flagship programs such as the SINGLE Program for Connectivity Infrastructures and 5G, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity strategies or the PERTE chip. Secondly, the digitisation of the economy with the Digital Kit for the digitisation of SMEs, the important investments in digitisation of the Administration, the impulse of Spain as an audiovisual hub of Europe and the PART of the new economy of the language. And, thirdly, people, with the various digital competence programs of citizens driven by the State, autonomous communities and local corporations, who increasingly reach out to citizens from all over the territory so that everyone can join digital change. This explains the significant increase in public investment in digital transformation, which will exceed by 2023 the figures, which have already been very significant, contained in the budget for 2022. In total, the investment of the general state budgets in digitisation in the period 2021-2023 multiplied by seven the investment made in 2018-2020. The ministry's overall budget amounts to more than EUR 6090 million by 2023, which represents an increase of 16.2% over 2022, and is that in 2023 the deployment of the recovery plan is accelerated, with an increase of more than 23% for the Next Generation funds, which are approaching the 49 billion euros of investment. Projects funded under the recovery plan are mostly investments in digitization. In addition to the chapters on digital transformation, I would like to point out two or three elements of the budget that may be interesting. The investments relating to the preparation of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which - as is known - Spain has in the second half of 2023, which amount to EUR 8 million in the case of the Ministry of Economy. A second point to note is that current transfers are down by 5%, mainly because they complete Greece's public debt relief contributions. Your ladies and gentlemen will recall that, in previous years, I pointed out this element of the budgets. Thirdly, the increase of EUR 30 million in the budget of 2023 for contributions to multilateral financial institutions, mainly linked to the fight against climate change, should be noted, although there is also an increase in the capital of the Latin American Development Bank, the CAF, to promote the integration and development programmes carried out by this institution. As I said, apart from these elements that I wanted to mention in passing, within the investments of these budgets for 2023, the most clearly important thing is investments in digitisation. Firstly, investments in PERTE Chip, the strategic project of semiconductors and microelectronics, which amount to EUR 1150 million in the budget for 2023. As you know, the objective of this strategic project is to strengthen the capabilities of our country's business ecosystem industry in this area, which is absolutely key to the strategic autonomy of Spain and Europe. This same Friday we will have a meeting with the ecosystem of companies, in the field of semiconductors and microelectronics, to open the second phase of the PART, once established the framework of action for its development and achieved the first advances, with the important investments already announced by Intel and Cisco, in the field of chip design. In addition to the investment for PERTE Chip, strong investments are provided in the budget for the deployment of the 5G connectivity plan and momentum, the SINGLE Programme mentioned above. The budgets of 2023 foresee more than EUR 1200 million to contribute to the objective of bringing ultra-fast broadband connectivity to 100% of the population by 2025, to maintain and strengthen Spain's leading position in terms of connectivity, that network that connects us, which is absolutely essential for the territorial vertebration of our country and the reduction of the digital gap between rural and urban environments. In addition, EUR 1340 million will be allocated in 2023 for the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly through the Digital Kit Programme. Another notable area is that of the data economy. We will allocate EUR 565 million for the creation of data spaces, especially in the field of tourism and health. The objective is precisely the digital transformation of this strategic tourism sector for our country, for the intensive use of big data and artificial intelligence, to improve the competitiveness of tourism companies and the development of new business models. And in the area of health, our goal is to create a health data centre that collects information from all systems and allows for a massive analysis for the identification and improvement of diagnosis and operation and the provision of service to all citizens, an absolutely key issue, as we have seen in recent years. We will continue to invest in the digital administration; we will dedicate more than 200 million euros in 2023, which join the 700 million we have already invested in the period 2021-2022, to develop a 21st century administration based on the provision of quality digital public services, close to citizens and able to boost the economy. We will devote more than EUR 135 million to cybersecurity, in order to further strengthen the capacities of citizens, businesses and professionals to respond to cyberattacks. The budgets of 2023 also include more than 40 million euros for the development of the digital competences of citizens. Since 2012, this programme has been endowed with almost EUR 11 billion, with the aim of improving citizens' basic digital skills; a subject that will undoubtedly have been addressed in detail by the Minister of Education, who has just participated in this Chamber. It completed the reference of the most important investments pointing to the strong commitment of the Government to women-led entrepreneurship. We will provide, in the budgets of 2023, 17 million euros for Enisa to continue to drive women-led startups. It is a line that we started in July 2021 and has already funded more than 100 projects led by women entrepreneurs in the digital field. All these figures, all these investments are not empty words, they are not declarations of intent, they are not a programme of the future, they are facts, they are investments on the ground that are being made here and now. We are in the process of digitisation and, thanks to the budgets of previous years, we have deployed important transformative investments in the lives of citizens and businesses, and on these investments we are going to build the budget execution of 2023. Let me give you a couple of examples. With the Unique Broadband Program, we are bringing the fastband, ultra-fast broadband, to more than 7100 municipalities across Spain. With the Digital Kit Program we have already provided digital solutions and tools to more than 52 000 SMEs. We have created Quantum Spain, the first quantum supercomputing ecosystem in southern Europe, in which the main supercomputing centers of several autonomous communities are participating and collaborating for this first quantum computer in southern Europe. In the field of artificial intelligence, we are facilitating the integration of this new technology into industrial value chains, helping 210 leading companies in the sector in the first call, 70% of which are SMEs. We are enhancing the use of Spanish and co-official languages in the technological field, so that artificial intelligence not only thinks in Chinese and English, but also in Spanish, Spanish and co-official languages. Recently, we have approved the programme of support for projects developed in the autonomous communities: The AINA project, for Catalan; GAITU, for Basque; US, for Galician; VIVES, for Valencian; and LEIA for Spanish, with the Royal Academy. In digital competitions, we have just launched the Digital Pymes Generation Program. We have launched the call to train 95 000 SME managers and 33 000 agents of change, to strengthen the digital transformation of the economy, in addition to the programmes that are being launched by the autonomous communities and the municipalities for the digital competences of the whole citizenry and all the digital competence programmes at school and at the VET, of which the Minister of Education has already spoken in detail, and all this, guided by a perspective of humanistic digitalisation that puts the person at the centre. The Digital Rights Charter, which we adopted in July 2021, gives us a frame of reference for all developments, all the programmes that are put in place, and ensure that our democratic values, rights, are protected equally in the physical world and in the online world. Thanks to this momentum, and the results are tangible, according to the latest report of the European Commission, DESI 2022, the index of the digital economy and society, Spain has taken the seventh position of the 27 Member States of the European Union in digitisation. [[Applauds]] To give you an idea, when we arrived at the government, in 2018, Spain held the eleventh position in this index. Spain has been consolidated as the most advanced country among the great, ahead of France, Italy and Germany, and is also ahead of countries traditionally emblematic of digital transformation, such as Estonia or Portugal. That is, that these investments, this digital agenda is already having results on the ground and is demonstrating Spain's ability to lead in the digital sphere, in this technological revolution that, for the first time in our history, finds us well prepared, with strong infrastructures, with the recovery plan to make the necessary investments and with a government absolutely determined to take advantage of all opportunities without leaving anyone behind. These general state budgets for 2023 in this context are more important than ever. We are at a historic moment and the decisions we now make will mark the future of our country. They are good budgets for Spain and its citizens, so that they can have an economic and social transformation and move towards a greener, more digital, fairer, more equitable, better vertebrate and more cohesive from a social and territorial point of view; and all this, with full fiscal responsibility, as I said a moment ago, fulfilling our objectives to further reduce the deficit and debt ratios on GDP, as we have been doing in recent years. I am convinced that your ladies and gentlemen are aware of the relevance of these budgets and will be voting in the light of the circumstances. We play a lot, it's time to think about the country with high eyes. I hope this is demonstrated by your honors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u170	Thank you very much. In defence of amendments, Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u171	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, I said that all international bodies agree on the strength of Spain's economy. The truth is that I do not see that, what I do see is that the international bodies and any reference body in Spain also agree on two things: firstly, that we are the last economy in the European Union to recover the pre-pandemic GDP levels; and secondly, that we will probably not do so until 2025. I do see a consensus on that. And I also see another consensus and it's that you don't give one in economic forecasts, it's that you don't give one. I am already asking you whether the economic forecasts are being made by the CIS, because as long as you are going to spend on different parts, I think you should invest a little in improving economic forecasting services. Because, look, you're saying that this year that we're going to start in January, the Spanish economy is going to grow by 2.1%. The OECD is saying 1.3; the European Union, 1.1; the Bank of Spain, 1.4; the AIReF, 1.5; Funcas, 0.7. It's just that no one supports your data. I can name you up to twenty-four organisms. Hey, everybody's wrong and you're right? [[Applauds]] It's just that this is vital because everything else is thought from this premise. Therefore, if we load the premise, we have to load the derivations that the premise has. This budget is an absolute wet paper because it is based on a construction totally unreal and invented by you, which only sustains you. And that is the reality that we have and that is how it goes to Spain, precisely, that is how it goes to Spain. Now I'm going to propose a fictional policy exercise. Imagine that you were in the opposition and that our country was the only one in the European Union that had not yet recovered the previous level of growth, where the CPI, prices had risen annually - with the October data - by 7.8%, where between 2022, 2023 and 2024 prices in our country would rise by 19%, while wages - and I put for example the officials, which the others will see - would only rise by 9.5; that is to say, there would be a 9-point impoverishment of wages. [[the lady]] Imagine that all this happened to you in the opposition, the streets are burning, but the ones who would be leading those demonstrations are those who today sit on the blue bank and tell us that the economy is going at cruising speed. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, that is the reality of Spain. What we are going at cruising speed is to stamp out, with the debt we have, with the intolerable deficit we assume, with fictitious accounts and with a budget supported by all the enemies of Spain. That's how it's impossible to build a country. He also talks about the European consensus on European funds and how important these budgets are to implement them, because he already had last year's budgets and the 31 billion he had just implemented 5000!This has had an impact on GDP of 0.4 points, i.e. irrisory. But this is what you are doing with European funds. But if a mastodontic structure has been set up in the government, which above has reserved for its own decision the PERTE without having a technical criterion or being advised by anyone, with the vote against many people in this House who asked to participate! You gave up making a country plan, you wanted to make a partisan plan with European funds, and it's going bad on you because you don't know how to execute them. I'll end up telling you a very important question for Navarra. I speak to you as the first Vice-President of the Government and as the highest representative of the Government who is going to pass through this House, and I say this on behalf of the Navarros, whom I represent. We don't want a single civilian guard out of our land. [[Applauds]] Not one! And we don't want to, first of all, because we need them, because the Civil Guard is security and security bothers offenders. By the way, the criminals are their partners and, therefore, they want to take out the Civil Guard. And not only that, we love them in Navarre because we are very grateful to them. For many years the Civil Guard protected us when we were going to the most difficult municipalities to plant face to face those with whom you have agreed today. And when we got out of those town halls, the Civil Guard looked under our cars, went to the doors of our houses and erased the paintings. When we were hit by a wheel to threaten them, they were trying to make sure we didn't find out. And every time we went downstairs to dump the trash at any time, they waited for us at the door so no one would come and shoot us, which is what they wanted to do to us. That's what the Civil Guard has done in Navarre. And today you are pacting with those who threatened us, to cast out those who protected us; and that is directly an infamy. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] It is miserable and it is petty to whiten Bildu, but it is so much more to get rid of his land - because it is his land - to those who have done so much for Navarre, Spain and for freedom and democracy in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u172	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u173	President, ladies and gentlemen, minister, good afternoon now. I was saying on Monday, I think - I've already lost track of time - that the data is irrefutable and I have to say it again now. The macroeconomic scenario envisaged by the Government, by its Minister, Vice-President, has been denied by the International Monetary Fund, by independent entities such as the Bank of Spain, the AIReF or Funcas. And not only that, but also these general state budgets for the coming year, by 2023, are born addicted, have notable shortcomings and are based on unrealistic forecasts. And the latter is not what I say, as the President of the AIReF said at a parliamentary meeting. You took a few minutes here in this rostrum talking about the upward revision of Spain's macroeconomic growth forecasts that the OECD made yesterday. And it is true that the OECD rises to 4.7% of Spain's GDP growth by 2022, that is to say, 6 tenths of growth, but what you have not said - and I am sorry to say that we have to tell you everything - is that the OECD lowers its economic growth forecast by 2023 to 10 tenths, down to 1.2. Nor has he said that the European Commission has further lowered the growth forecast for the Spanish economy in the last review next year; Brussels now believes that we will only grow by 1% by 2023. You said, Vice President - and I open quotes, because you look nice - 'We say what we do and we do what we say'. We say what we are doing, and we need to hear from the press the spokespersons of the Committee on Budgets and all your ladies and gentlemen that the Government has presented in Brussels a plan B, a scenario B, a parallel basic scenario; you call it a more prudent scenario. The sentence said: We say what we do - and I tell you that they haven't said everything, because Brussels is all about it and we don't know what we have to discuss the budgets - and we do what we say. But we still do not know what you are going to do, because we do not know whether these general state budgets are going to be based on the scenario you have shared with us or on scenario two, scenario B, of these budgets, which only Brussels knows. It's very good everything you've told us. He has talked about 17 million for Enisa, 500 million for data spaces, 1 billion euros for a PETE and another 200 million euros that are added to the 700 already invested for the digital administration. This is very good, but I have to tell you - because, if not, it would make no sense all that I have been saying in this rostrum these days - that the Government of Spain decides to allocate 42% of our country's public resources only to the payment of pensions is the Government of a country that cannot prosper. That is why I do not agree with you that these budgets are good for Spain. You said: We play a lot, we play so much that approving these budgets is necessary. Well, look, we play a lot and we play so much that one in two euros of this budget cannot devote itself to the payment of pensions and to the payment of debt, to the payment of unproductive activities. I'm sorry, but no. I too am going to devote the remaining minutes to talking about digitisation, because we also care a lot, we have also put a lot of money, and we have also supported the government in everything that we thought was right and good for Spain and for the Spanish in the area of digitisation. The Government does not like what Citizens are asking of it, because we have been vetoed by almost all the amendments on digitisation. So, I do not know whether your Government's bet is real or cosmetic only because they have directly vetoed some of the amendments that we have put forward so that they have a real impact on the digitisation of our country. This means that we have not been allowed to debate or be able to hear from Congress about, for example, the video game sector, a sector of high added value that generates around 22,000 jobs in Spain and moves almost EUR 2 billion each year. When we propose this fiscal revolution for the video game sector, it seems that they get hives, because talking about taxation and lowering taxes bothers them. If you refuse to deflate the IRPF or allow tax deductions to offset the rise in mortgages, how can you not refuse to facilitate the expansion of such an important sector that it could turn Spain into a leading country? Another example - and this is very curious - is that they have vetoed our plan of 500 million euros to bring the connection of 100 mega to the entire national territory, a necessary measure to close the gap between urban and rural areas, to have access to quality Internet in these rural areas, and also necessary to ensure that any citizen can telework from any corner of Spain. He said that this veto is of interest and has an end because it is an amendment to which you committed yourselves, which Citizens introduced in the General Telecommunications Act with your commitment, and that we now veto the amendment saying that it cannot be provided with 500 million because it is an increase in spending. Of course it is an increase in spending; if we have passed a law that establishes that this 100 mega connectivity will develop throughout the Spanish territory...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u174	Mrs. Muñoz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u175	It's because there wasn't, and you have to give it. I mean, we approved a compromise a few months ago, and now they're vetoing it. Citizens' commitment to digitizing our country is very important. I ask you to support two amendments that remain alive, one of which is very important because it is a specific programme to promote cybersecurity...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u176	Mrs. Muñoz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u177	... in the company, something that, by the way, would also be necessary in the administration, as demonstrated by this week's cyberattack in his own ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u179	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In Sánchez's Spain, the state's general budgets have already become that great theatre in which Mrs Montero's accounts are the least and what really matters is what is behind the backdrop of her elaboration. In this process there are two necessary actors: on the one hand, you, Mrs Calviño, who draw up the alibi in the form of unreal macroeconomic forecasts; and, on the other hand, those who sit next to you in the Council of Ministers, those who do the most unworthy work, if it is possible, to agree on the budgets with which you will try again to break Spain and to which these days we give you pardons, penal reforms to the letter, or the possibility of rewriting the democratic memory of this country at the hands of the lords of Bildu. All this is done in a theatricalization of the blackmail broadcast, moreover, in real time, because already, Madam Vice President, neither your partners can trust Pedro Sánchez. As I said, you are largely responsible for the inconsistency of the accounts that this week bring to Congress - as other honourable senators have said before me in the use of the word - accounts that do not serve for an economy that is slowing down, as demonstrated by the modest growth of 2 tenths of the last quarter, burdened by the fall of almost 2 points in investment or by the stagnation of household consumption. While you are not blushing to repeat - today you have said again here - that recovery in Spain is being rapid - strong, you have said today - when the reality is that after losing our country 11 points of wealth, we will not recover it until the year 2024, and that we will be the last in Europe differently. But what is serious, Madam Vice-President, is that, while you are falsifying the large macroeconomic figures, you ignore those that describe the situation of domestic economies. That is why, with this government, with the people's government, in the last four years, families have become poorer until they are second in line in Europe, and that is where the real disposable income per capita has fallen by 5.9%. As in the rest of the countries around us that income has barely fallen, or even increased, it turns out that with the people's government today people are poorer than our partners. If we talk about inflation - which you said did not worry about in the short term, I suppose because it mattered to you in the medium and long term - despite the moderation of the annual rate, the truth is that the prices of the shopping basket do not fall, and that the overall price index today is 13.2% higher than in February last year; with the consequence, Mrs Calviño, that with the government of the people people people have gone from having the basket of the cheapest purchase of the economies similar to ours in the European Union to having one of the most expensive; where the lowest incomes not only cost them the price rise of 16.1%, but they have to make an effort of a point and a half more than the highest income to fill it at the expense. And with this panorama, you, Mrs Calviño, come today and present to us the budgets of section 27, of the ministry you direct. And I have to admit that, in fact, it does so without complexity, because, while families tighten their belts, you haven't told us here today why you raise personnel costs by 15% in your ministry or why, while households are cutting unnecessary expenses, you raise current expenses by 35%, or why, while the Spaniards draw numbers to arrive at the end of the month, you increase the departure of high offices by 15%. Nothing should surprise us from this government which refuses to lower the VAT on commodities to income below EUR 14,000, while for their salaries, those of ministers, there is room, there is time and 4 % in the form of an increase in wages. It is you, Mrs Calviño, who is responsible for drawing growth forecasts that all analysts have corrected, even to leave them in half for next year, because it is that no one can believe that private consumption next year is going to rise by 1.3%, as no one is thought to be going to raise domestic demand by 2.4%, as it is foolish to believe that investment in construction is going to increase, with which it is falling, by 120 %. It is that their predictions, all of them, are false of all falsehood. Moreover, you, as head of the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs, are responsible for the deterioration of Spanish public finances, for increasing our public debt twice as much as the euro countries, for increasing public debt 300 billion since you came to the government, and for the tightening of the financing conditions reducing our fiscal policy margin, as the OECD said yesterday, the AIReF or the Banco de España repeatedly. Mrs Calviño, you came to the government as a symbol of moderation, of the paradigm of stability that our investors, our companies, needed. You came with a well-earned reputation for your professional career, with which you brought certainty within an Executive made up of people and made up of characters who, just by being present, were already able to destabilize our economic system, our political system and our institutional system. But I have to tell you that, unfortunately, you ended up turning to sanchism and with it you lost your modesty by not telling the truth. He began to act as vice president and abdicated from the minister of economics. Today she has served as Secretary of State for Digital Transformation. He lost rigor and lost credibility. It has turned its rigour into the errors of forecasting - we do not know if intended - that have prevented us from anticipating. It turned its pragmatism into continuous attempts to distort its reality for electoral purposes. He turned his knowledge of the institutions - which could have served us well to transform the economic model of Spain - into such an absolute inefficiency to manage the huge amount of millions that come from Europe, 5 billion execution, as the European Commission recalled yesterday. Believe me, Madam Vice-President of the Government, I feel the harshness of my words, but I can assure you that they only respond to the harshness of the situation that millions of families are living and also to what hundreds of representatives of economic sectors who no longer find a single reference in the Government, because this Government has long since ceased to be in the service of families, in the service of businesses and in the service of the general interest, because this Government...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u180	Mr. Castellón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u181	I'm on my way, President. ... He has long focused exclusively on being at the service of that personalist project called Pedro Sánchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u182	Thank you, Mr. Castellón. In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u183	Dear President, Minister, dear colleagues, with that sweetness that characterizes the people of the Canary Islands, one of the speakers before said how beautiful yesterday's session, a session in which the representatives of the citizenry - this never goes on television - we work until eleven or twelve o'clock in the evening, approving as if there were no morning budgets, parties, compromise amendments, and approval by very large majorities, transversal majorities, majorities that, in many cases, were unanimous, except for the party that he does not like to vote, but everyone else supporting a lot of these measures and adopting budgets that are needed to protect our citizenship. This is the situation we have, which we often don't remember, we don't have historical memory, but we don't remember the time we came, a time of instability, of disgovernment, an era of four electoral repetitions in four years, of budgetary extensions, of absolute inability to approve budgets, of having to pull out of adequate budgets and continue and wade with that inability to govern. In the face of this, fortunately, in this crisis, at this very difficult moment we have a stable government, a serious coalition government, a quiet government, a government that approves budgets in time and form, without any sudden, calmly, with transversal agreements and with very large majorities. This is the situation we have, a situation of deep governmental instability from which the whole of Europe envyes us, where governments fall in forty-five days. And who applies what policies? Well, the policies that take time. What does a moment of crisis require? Countercyclical policies. It's just that it's sensible. You don't even have to be left-handed, you just have to be sensible, have common sense, there's no more. Countercyclical policies, expansionary fiscal expansion policies. For what? To finance public policies, public services, Keynesians, who contribute to the social shield, who redistribute and somehow make them have to pay the expense or have to run with it especially those who have the most. Why? Because article 31 of the Constitution says this, an article that says that everyone has to contribute to the maintenance of expenses according to their economic capacity, something that hates those who call themselves constitutionalists, who despise the Constitution, who despise our tax system and what Article 31 says. [[applause]] What's going on? That when the correct diagnoses are applied in a situation and the right policies, which are countercyclical policies, the results are good. And who says so? We do not say that, all international institutions say that. And what's going on? That we not only create a social shield that gets us to be from the countries of Europe that have the lowest inflation and that, in addition, we get historical records in employment, but that there is what has never been of workers contributing to social security in this country, and in the midst of crisis, gentlemen. It is that this is an incredible situation, and this is the situation we are currently in, a situation that is envied by the rest of the countries. And we don't say it, all the international institutions say it. And, in addition to maintaining the social shield of citizenship, we advance rights, and the United Nations says so. The United Nations says that we are the number twenty country in meeting the objectives of the 2030 Agenda and that we have gone from being the number twenty country to being the number sixteen country. And they say that the main progress in the 2030 Agenda has been made in two areas: in the area of decent work and in the area of gender equality. So, from here, my congratulations to the Government and my special congratulations to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Equality, for their magnificent work, which places us where we are at the international level, but to the entire Government as a whole. [[applause]] And not only does the United Nations say that, the OECD says. What did the OECD say yesterday? He said that, although there is an economic slowdown, Spain is one of the countries that is not at risk of recession, while Britain and Germany are already entering recession. That is the situation, however much you camouflage and invent data. That is what the OECD says, that is what the United Nations says, that is what the European Union says. What does the European Commission say about the subject we are analysing, the subject of digitisation? For the minister has already explained it with the obvious data. He says that of twenty-seven countries, we were the number eleven country, we became the number nine in digitization and we are already the number seven. It is the one that is making the most progress and, moreover, it is the first of the great countries of Europe. In other words, we are ahead of Germany, ahead of France and ahead of Italy in economic digitisation. And why does that happen? Because adequate diagnoses are made, such as those made by this government, and because appropriate measures are taken; appropriate measures are those of creating a digital competitive environment suitable for our small businesses, for our startups, as has been well described, and basically creating important objectives of territorial cohesion and social cohesion. And that's what needs to be done. When things go well, you pass the exam and you don't have to go over it again. And when things go wrong and when projects like Mr Feijóo or Mrs Ayuso - Liz Truss's, to which they supported - are made, when such policies are carried out, when misdiagnoses are made, the situation is broken and policies are applied failed, the results are failed, because that is so. Because if we have a moment of serious crisis and, instead of implementing countercyclical measures, cyclical measures are applied, liberal, neoliberal, racist taxes and public services are applied, what happens is what happens, that the pound sinks, that there is instability, that governments fall and that another government has to come, and the new government, even if it is right-wing, has to start making reasonable policies, because those crazy policies do not lead them anywhere. And what do you have to do? To raise taxes, and that is the first thing the British right-wing government does when it has to rectify, raise taxes and impose taxes on the extraordinary profits of big companies, which is what it has to do. And what do you do, too? Raise the minimum wage. That is what the British Government is doing. What's going on? That he does it after having suspended in June and having to go back in September. So this Government, fortunately, is approving the duties, doing things in time, doing them calmly, patiently, safely, passing on calm to the citizenry and implementing the policies, diagnoses and measures to be taken. That is why this government is being approved by all the international bodies, by many films invented by the leader of the Navarro People's Union, who has come here and, as always, as he knows nothing about the digital economy, instead of talking about digitisation, he has spoken about ETA and the Civil Guard. Well, anyway, businesslike. That this does UPN, happens, but that the People's Party has not taken note of what has happened in England and are willing to leave us alone again makes me very sad for them. Take note, learn, in times of crisis, countercyclical measures, social shield, expansive budgets and Keynesian policies, and so it is approved, there is no other. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u185	With the coming. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. A preliminary question. Socialists, you are remembering the 22nd anniversary of the death of your colleague Ernest Lluch, killed by two shots into the head by terrorist Lierni Armendáriz, but what you are not saying is that his killer is now in semi-freedom thanks to the third degree granted by the Basque Government after assuming prison competition since October last year. Socialists, you have no shame, and this is a clear example of how you prisoners change for budgets. [[Applauds]] Minister - now yes - you say that we arrived with strong growth. Does that mean we've recovered 2019 levels? Minister, don't lie. They present us with budgets of ruin and with a clear propagandistic objective. It is noted that next year both municipal and general elections are held. You have put the rest into these budgets to promote the Czar of the Moncloa and start up all the machinery. Firstly, for the Presidency of the European Union in the second half of the year, with more than EUR 150 million and, secondly, full of slogans, such as: social justice, inclusive growth, fiscal responsibility, regardless of whether or not they fit into reality, directing its strategy to more than 14 million Spaniards, including pensioners - up by 8.5% -, public employees - up by 3.5% -, and young people with the help of the cultural bonus of EUR 400, which for all that has served, ladies and gentlemen, is to fill the Wallapop page and exchange the voucher received by the cash, and all with the firm intention of remaining in power at any cost. [[applause]] But you, Mrs. Calviño, don't stay there. Now, by including an additional provision to the Democratic Memory Act, they intend to give away and promise Spanish nationality as if it were a candy with the sole and exclusive aim of obtaining votes. Moreover, his colleague, Minister Albares, who sits three more seats to his left, is campaigning together with the hordes pumitas in different Hispanic American countries to capture exiles and give them their nationality with the aim of the generals of 2023. You, Minister, the extreme left of this country, because you are in league with the Communists of Podemos, with the secessionists and separatists of ERC and with the heirs of ETA, once you are in power, will do everything possible not to release it, even though it is through supposed democratic tools loaded with the most radical totalitarianism, buying wills and every identity feature of the person until it turns the nation into a true cave of pirates. And who will pay for their ideological delusions and the consequences of ruinous budgets? The usual, Minister, the families, the middle classes, the SMEs, the shops, the self-employed. It is his ministry's responsibility to pursue economic policy in support of enterprise and reforms to improve potential growth. You have indeed stated that SMEs and self-employed people play a fundamental role in your ministry and that they are the heart of our economy, an expression, by the way, that you like to say to yourself in many of your interventions. Well, Minister, your policies are bleeding the SMEs and the self-employed. Currently 40% of small and medium-sized businesses have closed with losses in the first half of 2022. In the third quarter, more than 20 000 businesses disappeared and 90 000 remain in a state of technical bankruptcy. Nearly 350,000 businesses are in crisis and run the risk of disappearing. The ICO loans, which were announced as extraordinary aid for SMEs and self-employed, will end up giving the dots to self-employed people. Alongside this, many sectors have now seen their costs increase by up to 50% due to the rise in light, gasoline, labour costs, raw materials and gas. This spiral of increase seems to have no end and is suffocating the SMEs and the autonomous. You, Minister, offer only a few crumbs, since within the measures taken you will increase the deduction for expenditure of difficult justification from 5% to 7% and reduce the SMEs from 25% to 23%, i.e. only 2 points, while our SMEs and self-employed people suffer an increase of up to 50%. SMEs, businesses and self-employed people are in a limited situation and can no longer endure. Look, I'm going to give you a real example. The other day I met an autonomous woman from the transport, specifically from the taxi, who told me that her situation was unsustainable. He was fifty-five years old, separated, with two kids in college, with a mortgage and a taxi license. Well, since before the pandemic to this day the mortgage for the rise of the Euribor has amounted to 200 euros, the cost of gasoline, diesel in this case, 400 euros more, in the light of his house has gone from paying 80 euros to more than 200 euros, because in addition above his house had electric heaters, the shopping basket between 15% and 20%, and was frightened by the new rise of autonomous next year. That is, almost 1000 euros per month, 1000 euros over monthly cost and working sixteen hours per day. But the bloodiest thing is that when he retires, because he quotes for the minimum because they don't give him the numbers, he will charge 960 euros per month working sixteen hours. Sixteen hours a day for 960 euros? And if we add to this that for the fourth quarter and first quarter of 2023 a decrease in consumption of up to 60% is expected for businesses, businesses and self-employed people, this will cause many to have to close the blind and put themselves on the line of unemployment or, if necessary, sell everything they have if they have anything left. Madam Minister, the heart of our economy bleeds, it retorts in pain for its economic policies and you are the most responsible. At the beginning of this legislature you seemed to be the discordant voice of this government, but you only seemed. Today, with its policies and attitude, it is another piece of this Government that changes budgets for votes, prisoners for budgets, gives nationalities for votes and benefits seditious and rapists. A long time ago I asked him what was the boundary between ambition and consciousness. Today I have no doubt that you have no conscience and that you are prisoners of your excessive ambition and your own interests so as to remain in power, and that in order to throw you - because you will not leave - from VOX, as the only possible alternative, we will show the Spaniards the misery and the moral and economic ruin that you represent. Nothing more. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u187	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Vice President, thank you very much and especially today thank you very much for your work and leadership. We cannot normalize permanent personal insult in Spanish politics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have tried to be abstract from some of your considerations which have nothing to do with the debate on the general budgets of the State. We've been listening to sandwiches for three days, ladies and gentlemen on the right, and today again. First you spoke of Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba; you, who now set him as an example, said in this Congress of Deputies, when you appointed him Minister of the Interior, that it was to put the fox to care for the chickens. AngelAcebes said so. Another senator, Rafael Hernando, even tried to hit him in the halls. That's you, that's your hemeroteca. And today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have woken up with a campaign on the crime of sedition, and of course we support Mariano Rajoy to stop the illegal referendum in Catalonia. And you know why? Because, unlike you, we are always to comply with the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] Always, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And, by the way, as the President of the Government said yesterday, they are very predictable. That's right, not just one, we have to read up to two newspapers to know what you're going to do the next day. Yesterday ABC pointed out to us all the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and today you do it from your official accounts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] His remarks are the foreword to hate crimes, but our conditions are those of a party that has worked its whole life for democracy and freedom, also for coexistence, as we are trying to do today in Catalonia. And you know what happens to them? They want to cover the sun with a finger, because what you do not want to talk about, neither this week nor this year, is about the general budgets of the state, the most social of democracy to continue to make country, to continue improving the lives of the Spaniards and the Spanish; those who dedicate 6 out of 10 euros, vice president, to social investment, the budgets that raise the pensions to more than 10 million retirees, those who benefit more than a million students with access to a scholarship, those of the two million Spaniards who will be able to continue travelling free in rail transport. Budgets that invest more than ever in our history in health, education and dependency to improve public services. These are the budgets of the workers, the self-employed, the SMEs and the economic efficiency, in order to continue to drive economic growth, the creation of quality jobs and the transformation of our productive model by the hand of European funds. These are the budgets of social justice. That is why, however loud they shout to cover them up, this is a very important week, because we are going to approve, ladies and gentlemen, the third consecutive budgets, the third general budgets of the State with this government. [[Applauds]] But it is also that you are committed to questioning the macroeconomic picture of our country which, by the way, has been validated by the AIReF and you even speak of falsifying; and the reality, which is silly, ladies and gentlemen, lies to you. Every bully, a given. We have heard these days say to Mr Feijóo - the leader of the economic bubbles - that you must reach the government so that Spain can grow again, as if we were not already doing so, Vice-President. The reality is that Spain will be growing above 4% by 2022, well above the average for the euro area and the main EU countries, and even the OECD points out that it can grow by 4.7%. And today, ladies and gentlemen, the International Monetary Fund has raised its forecast for Spain to 4.6%; today, not yesterday, today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You know what happened yesterday? Yesterday - yes - the European Commission endorsed these general budgets and the fiscal objectives for Spain. You were also the ones talking about full employment, when you became six million unemployed. The reality, with data, ladies and gentlemen, is that this Government, despite the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, creates more employment and better quality, and today we have more than twenty million people affiliated with Social Security, one of every two contracts signed in this country is indefinite, we have less than three million unemployed for the first time since 2008 and the youth unemployment rate and the female unemployment rate, which are at least historic, have been reduced. This is the reality of the data, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Also, this Government continues to reduce the deficit and public debt by half - the deficit in just two years - and we will continue on that path of fiscal and budgetary responsibility. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, everything you do is of no use to you. Every economic data and every international body rejects it. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us not talk about increasing structural expenditure, propaganda or unproductive investment, because these general budgets of the State are those of productive investment, they are those of families, they are those of economic growth, they are those of the self-employed, they are those of the workers, they are those of the social majority of this country that needs these public accounts. In short, general state budgets that portray us all, to which we are going to carry out these public accounts and to which they once again put sticks on the wheels. Let us continue, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that we will attend to the problems of this country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. We move on to the debate in Section 29, Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u189	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of Spain presents the general budgets of the State for 2023 in a context once again enormously complex for our country, a context that once again needs courageous action, high-mindedness and also ideological clarity on the part of this Government. Some political and media sectors are particularly upset that these three years of legislature and the first coalition government, since the restoration of democracy, have made clear a conclusion that the debate between the various political forces that we are part of this government and also with the parliamentary majority that supports it has been a driving force for rights and also a guarantee of stability. We are working hard to make this government a catalyst for the main proposals, demands and demands that a large part of Spanish society has been putting on the table since the 15M decreed the end of bipartisanism in Spain. The changes certainly do not come as quickly as we would like or as quickly as they would be necessary for the pressing and urgent problems that the people of our country are experiencing. But we are certainly making progress in social rights, feminist rights and fiscal justice as we have not made progress in decades. All the progress that is being recognized and guaranteed in this legislature is driven by the debate between those who want to guarantee the public and the common who want to, on the contrary, dismantle it and hand it over to the vultures who do business with our health, with education, with residences or with early care. These budgets again show that when we govern, not only do we govern better, but that, in addition, accounts can be squared by protecting people. The budgets we present today are accounts that look to the future, but they are also accounts that have memories, ladies and gentlemen. The management of the financial crisis of 2008 was also the antonomasy crisis of social rights, because not only were they severely violated by taking advantage of the economic situation, but their very nature was questioned. I believe that, as Minister of Social Rights, it is my duty to say loud and clear that those who cut in health, public education or social services are exerting violence against our people. Going to a mass emergency or impossible to get an appointment in a pediatrician is violence, ladies and gentlemen, against people and also against health professionals. Not being able to give your children and children the healthy food they need and, instead, giving them only what you can afford is violence. Not being able to pay the rent because it is inflated by the interests of vulture funds and also of the renters is violence. Social rights, ladies and gentlemen, are not recognized only in times of good times and are cut when things are wrong. Social rights must be permanent, and precisely when things get more difficult, it is when we have to invest more in social policies that guarantee those rights. [[Applauds]] That is precisely the spirit of these budgets and of all the budgets that the coalition government has approved in these years. We are once again making this possible with unprecedented social investment - EUR 270 billion, as has already been said - and we will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen, until we are able to broaden the welfare state so that it embraces all, so that we can reach out to the last and the last, precisely to all those who have been told so many times that they are small, that they are irrelevant. They are not for this Government and they are certainly at the centre of these public accounts. Our welfare state is, of course, ladies and gentlemen, our main and most important democratic heritage and, as such, we are also defending it in these general budgets. Before going into the detail of my section I would like to make a preliminary reflection that seems to me to be fundamental. The reverse of social justice, ladies and gentlemen, is always fiscal justice, they are two sides of the same coin. Social rights cannot be guaranteed in Spain or anywhere else without balancing the fiscal balance and ending the inequality gap. Anyone who says that social rights and public services can be guaranteed by lowering taxes to the rich lies, ladies and gentlemen, lies. That is why we are addressing a tax reform that was essential for the people of our country, because it is the only thing that will allow us to guarantee social rights. If we are to avoid poverty, ladies and gentlemen, we must talk about wealth. We have to explain to everyone that if there are very poor people in Spain, people who are being evicted, people who have to live on the street, it is because there are people in Spain who are taking too much, ladies and gentlemen, so we need to cut those privileges and put to the common what is theirs. [[applause]] Because if something has taught us these years, there are two ways to manage economic crises. One, the model of the right, the model of Liz Truss, the model that has proved to be a failure and that goes by taking advantage of the economic crisis to give more privileges to those who have always been, and an economic model like the one developed by this government, that goes by advancing in fair taxation and guaranteeing rights. That is why, in parallel with these budgets, the forces of this government have reached an agreement to create a tax on big fortunes and, also, an extraordinary tax on big energy companies and banks. It is an agreement that is going to put an end once and for all to this enormous injustice that meant that the richest in Spain have gone through two very severe economic crises without putting a single euro in the public coffers. That is why today I want more than anything to thank all the political forces and all the collectives and people who have for so long opposed the neoliberal consensus, who have promoted fiscal measures and reforms such as the one that this House is going to adopt and who did not give in, because that was the very fundamental thing, not to give in when things were getting difficult and when we were faced with a huge challenge. Now that we have the consensus, accompanied by the European Commission and the United Nations, it is easy to push a tax on big fortunes and a tax on big energy companies, but before that it was not, and that was when we had to be brave. We will continue to work for all the needs of our people to become rights, ladies and gentlemen. In Podemos we are very used to being told that we can't, that we couldn't tax big fortunes and banks. Today we know it's possible and that's why we're going to keep working until everything they say can't be done, can be done. [[Applauds]] Moreover, these budgets go hand in hand with a fundamental agreement for this ministry, for the Ministry of Social Rights, which is the family law, which we will bring to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. It is a law that will consolidate the expansion of the raising income of 100 euros for all families with children from zero to three years, which will include new care permits and also new protective measures for single-maritime families. I am aware that families have been waiting a long time for these and other measures and that much remains to be done, but they have my commitment that we will continue to work to give all possible support, protection and well-being to all Spanish families. There are a number of issues that are included in these budgets that make me proud, but there is one that I think is particularly important and that I wanted to highlight today, which is the increase in the funding of attention to dependency, ladies and gentlemen. Since the establishment of this Government, we had made it very clear that investing in attention to dependence was one of our top priorities to live up to our country. We set ourselves some objectives that were very clear: to lower waiting lists, to improve the labour rights of caretakers and also the benefits of dependent persons. That is why in a single year we managed to reverse all the cuts of the People's Party and in 2022 we achieved a historic investment in dependence. As a result, we can now be faced with very important developments. Since the implementation of the Unit Shock Plan, there are about 180,000 new people with effective service in the dependency care system, but I am aware that this is not enough because we aspire to consolidate a long-term care system in Spain that is public and that is up to the great pillars of the welfare state. For this reason, these budgets propose a further increase of EUR 600 million for attention to dependency in the year 2023. This means that in just three years, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to increase the funds allocated to the unit by 150%, placing ourselves in record funding and investing - listen carefully - twice as much as any other government would have invested in the unit. [[Applauds]] I repeat this, because I know that it is not going to open any news, but it seems to me that it is what really changes people's lives: we are investing more than twice as much as any other government in dependence. I teach it to you with a chart, because I think it's worth seeing the comparison. [[Show a chart]] I also wanted to refer briefly to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, to the European funds, as this government and this ministry are going to invest almost EUR 1140 million in three major investment lines by the year 2023. The first is the reform of the long-term care system, with 820 million euros, 94 million euros more over last year; the second investment line is to further modernize social services, with 280 million euros, and a third investment line to continue implementing the Spain Accessible Country Plan, with 41 million euros. I am particularly pleased to be able to tell you that we include EUR 97 million for the National Plan of Digital Skills for the CODI programme, specific for children, a plan that we are developing at the hands of the autonomous communities because we know that we can do better work to close the inequality gap by giving real opportunities to children and adolescents. We have proposed as a Government that this be the legislature of children, of all children, regardless of where they were born, their skin colour or how their family is. Therefore, in 2023 we consolidated the fund to strengthen the attention of the autonomous communities to children and adolescents who migrate alone with 35 million euros. We will continue to deploy the Rhodes law, a law that puts us at the forefront of the international fight against violence against children and which is refinanced with 25 million euros. We also strengthen the funding of the Youth Institute, improving the allocation of Erasmus +, and also of the European Solidarity Corps. With regard to the promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities, I would like to emphasise the programme of educational grants for persons with disabilities, which this year 2023 will be endowed with EUR 5 million. This budget will finance some services that are essential for persons with disabilities, such as personal assistance, sign language interpreters or guides for deaf people, among many other services. We do not want to see a single person with disabilities in Spain who has to give up their dreams or their projects because they have found insurmountable barriers in their path. I would also like to mention briefly the budget of the Secretary of State for the 2030 Agenda. The 2030 Agenda, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, is a great international agreement for progress, an agreement against inequality, an agreement for peace, for health, for the planet. In short, an agreement to address the many discomforts that our societies are going through today. That is why the 2030 Agenda has been furiously attacked by leaders and extreme right-wing parties, by those who, I believe, aspire to draw political revenue from pain or who hope that hate speech will be cut off by the crack of despair. Faced with this, this Government will remain firmly committed to its international commitments and to the 2030 Agenda, but above all to the future and progress of this country. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is being translated a year more into figures. The budget for the 2030 Agenda amounts to a total of almost 23 million euros and, thus, we consolidate the investment and also all the activities and actions that allow us to make progress in meeting the Sustainable Development Goals. I finish with a brief reflection. I believe that the budgets we are debating today address a large number of areas and a large part of their departures are helping us to build a country that we feel proud and proud of: a green country, a feminist country, a fairer country, a country that takes care of its people and does not attack them. It is a pride that no one in this country has to mortgage for life to pay for cancer treatment. It is a pride that no one in this country thinks whether they will be able to pay for their treatment or not to go to emergencies. It is a pride that no one here is indebted for decades and decades to pay for university or vocational training. That security I think is what builds the real homeland, what gives us identity. That's what we are, ladies and gentlemen, the best we are. And that's precisely why we don't settle for being the same. We don't settle because we don't want people or their families in our country to have to be in debt to pay for dependency care by making an inverse mortgage, as so many people do in our country. We don't want anyone to have to leave their house because they can't afford to pay rent and we don't want so many drowned families because they don't want to be able to reach the end of the month because they need certainty and stability. That is why I would like to extend my hand once again to the progressive forces that have made the accounts possible in the last two years, so that they can help us once again to give stability to this country. Those parliamentary forces are the guarantee that we can continue to make progress on social rights and also on the democratic deepening that we need. Thank you very much, and you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to continue the debate telematically so that I can briefly attend to my newborn. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. I thank you for the explanations concerning section 29, which corresponds to the ministry you run in this XIV Legislature. I support the two amendments tabled by my colleague from the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte, by Teruel Existe. In my case, and hence my presence in this rostrum, I have tabled a single amendment relating to correcting the absolute waste of public resources to care for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a terrible disease that, precisely this morning, has taken the life of a legend of Spanish sport, the great Asturian boxer Enrique Rodríguez Cal, 'Dacal II', historic Olympic medalist from Munich 72, for whom I respectfully ask the House for a applause in recognition of his career, always in the amateur field. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely in Asturias, in the town of Langreo, that a state reference centre is built that depends on the Imserso; Imserso that I have not heard a single word from the minister this afternoon. The Imserso, which depends on the ministry of Mrs.Belara, built over more than a decade and after many political, administrative, technical and economic vicissitudes a state reference center, the product of a civic mobilization that began in the mining basins there in 2006. I do not know where Mrs Belarus has parked her demanding activism and the catalytic enzymes, because it is inexplicable and unacceptable that the Imserso has disbanded itself of the important functions for which the CREDIT was designed and built, and that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has renounced its staffing. There are 150 jobs that have been mentioned, and up to now they must not reach a dozen. The Government has also rejected CREDIT as an assistance residence, despite the fact that the building has capacity for sixty beds. Also, the Imserso, which depends on Mrs.Belara, does not want to know anything about the investigative facet of spinal diseases or, singularly, about this cruel neurodegenerative disease that is ALS. It came to be said that this was going to be a leading research center in the world. For all these reasons, to which I could add other arguments accumulated over many years of political and parliamentary struggle in favour of this socio-health equipment, I have tabled an amendment that promotes the full exploitation of the facilities of CREDIT in Langreo. I take it that the majority of leftists supporting the Government in this House will reject my amendment, which, in any case, will suffer a political disdain of the tenor of which the majority of Congress represented on its Bureau maintains with the proposal for a law on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, whose processing takes twenty renewals of term since it was taken into consideration there in March at the request of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and its tenacious deputy, Mrs Giménez Giménez. Miss Sara, we'll have to persevere. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, I am one of the members of Congress who tabled an amendment to the entire State General Budget Bill for 2023. One of the reasons was precisely the existence of this Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, from which it has irresponsibly flogged other powers of the State throughout its mandate. First, with Mr. Iglesias Turrion as minister, now converted into a media champion and audiovisual promoter; then, by Mrs. Belarus, who, like her blue-bank companion, Mrs. Montero, has been in a management in which sectarianism and the conversion of ministries or agencies to place friends prevail. You, Mrs Belarra, who has at your disposal the State Official Gazette, with little use, are responsible for the fact that today poverty in Spain continues to rise, that it is spreading and that the figures for social exclusion have increased more than worryingly. The propaganda that permeates all the action of the government cannot hide the reality of a society fraught with economic impacts, a product of the ruin to which the blue bank is targeting the Spaniards, with a cost of life triggered. You, Minister, are a legislative calamity; there are laws that are drafted without thinking about the consequences. Public opinion remains ojiplatic when it is known that the General Council of the Judiciary warns that the preliminary draft law on the reform of the Criminal Code on animal abuse can affect the principle of proportionality of sanctions and that this reform penalizes a man who beats a dog more than if he beats his partner. You, gentlemen of the blue bank, are a public danger. You have in the Ministry of Social Rights a director general who accused humans of stealing milk from other mammals. You say this in Asturias, in Asturias cattle, and you have to go out by foot. [[Applauds]] In any case, and with this in mind, I would like to stress that we are dealing with public accounts that are tailored to the needs of the parliamentary groups that want to dismantle Spain. These budgets, which the Government ensures by reducing the crime of sedition and other transfers to separatists, run counter to the interests of the nation. That way, my vote will also be against this section 29. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u192	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u193	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens have always advocated the need to improve our social fabric by providing the most vulnerable groups with more aid and benefits - all those that are needed. [[The Lord]] We have defended it and worked for it here in this House, and where it has been necessary, not just behind a banner. That is why I cannot begin my intervention without regreting the vetoes applied by the PSOE Government and We can to a series of measures that we have promoted from my parliamentary group and whose rejection is not understood, unless it is through pure sectarianism or ideological blindness. I find it surprising, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that you veto social measures such as the national strategy for the fight against sinogarism in our country, a reality that affects thirty thousand people who come to the accommodation and restoration centres in Spain. According to the associations themselves, this figure grows by 30% if we count all those who live permanently on the street. It seems to this Government that it is not interested in promoting a series of programmes to prevent the risk of residential exclusion of these people and to eradicate sinogarism. Incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen. But Mr Martínez Oblanca has introduced one of the main issues of concern to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and I believe that the whole House, and that is what is happening with the law for the sick of ALS and their families: twenty-six times the time has been renewed to amend this law. She spoke of the minister of progressive forces, of defending human rights and of making a country more progressive and better. How can there be so much incoherence in a speech, which is supposed to be progressive and to defend human rights but in which one does not bet to solve the problem of the patients of ALS or that of their families? How can we talk with such hypocrisy about a matter that affects the fundamental rights of people living one of the worst diseases in our country? I just don't get it. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I don't understand you. We've asked for it as an asset and a liability. Gentlemen of Podemos, I don't understand you. There is the possibility and there is unanimity in this House for the consideration of a rule that you know is needed in our country. People who suffer from this disease have, on average, a life expectancy of three to five years. Solving this situation means, approximately, 0.02% of our budget, and it turns out that there is a budget for other things and not to solve this situation? Therefore, every time they tell me that they are the progressive political formations of this House I will deny it, I will deny it bluntly, until they prove that here there is a bet for it. It is totally incoherent and outrageous and acts against the defence of the human rights of individuals and families with ALS. What's going on? That it's a law that presents Citizens? Gentlemen, this law has no political colour. All this law does is improve our country and our society. Twenty-six times the time has been renewed to amend this law, so that it actually dies and stays in a drawer. I'd like to ask you, please, to take responsibility and unlock it. We're not gonna get tired of asking. We will continue to maintain our claim, ours and that of the family members, the organisations and all those involved, to try to bring this legislation forward. We also want to address another of the important diseases, spinal muscle atrophy, so that they can have the necessary treatments and without any limitation. It is curious that a ministry that is theoretically led by a progressive government is armored and blocking treatments for spinal muscle atrophy and does not propel a law for ALS patients. These are two great duties that have to do with the construction of a full welfare state, because it is currently leaving much to be desired. On the other hand, we have tabled some other amendments. There is a big problem in our country that has to do with birth and the Government has also vetoed initiatives by our parliamentary group to address this situation. What we want, and have vetoed, is to extend the maternity allowance to all mothers, not just those who are working. The ones who really need it... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u195	... They are those who are in a situation of inactivity. These are the ones that most of the maternity allowances are needed. In addition, we have proposed a single maternity window to speed up and carry out bureaucratic procedures involving the birth or adoption of a child, an action plan for the promotion of birth with R & D aid and revision of current applicable legislation, as well as the extension of paternity permits, reaching 24 weeks. It has also been vetoed, which we do not see understandable, our proposal for universal support for rearing. The Government has preferred to go through its veto roll, as has the measure of reducing VAT on diapers and basic necessities. Other measures we talk about all the time are social measures, which are supposed to be progressive. I don't know if the color of our political party automatically causes them to wear a veil. I encourage you to take it away. With regard to minimum living income, we have also made a number of other proposals, because we know that minimum living income is not reaching all families. Why aren't the recipients of the minimum living income expanded, as proposed by Citizens? Why are there young people who do not have access to this income and why are there family members living in the same home and neither? Why is it not accepted that companies - in one of the measures we have proposed - should be subsidised to hire recipients of minimum living income? What we are proposing with this, moreover, is that there should be no aid to condemn you to poverty, but that recruitment should be encouraged. In short, our parliamentary group has various measures that make us much bigger and much better in the social field. Therefore, I hope that at some point they will leave ideological sectarianism and support it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u196	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u197	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We now have the part about the chapter on social rights and the truth is that, when one listens to the speech and the approach that has been made of the debate of the public against the vulture funds or of not being able to pay the rent, one realizes that, sometimes, everything is polarized and there are two blocks, when in the middle there is a reality neither white nor black, but much greyer, much closer to the social reality, which sometimes appears distorted when these speeches are made so polarized. I am going to make an intervention in which more than discussing all these approaches I am going to focus on reality and facts. The reality of the facts is the policy and transactions we have made in this chapter of Social Rights that are a manifestation of this grey color that I told them. Not everything is this polarization between the richest and the poorest. In this chapter, PeCAT has managed to negotiate, since the construction of the public, which was pointed out in the initial intervention of the minister, the construction of a center of elders in Termens, a Casal dels Jubilats de Bitem, a kindergarten in Gallifa. The provision of these services has therefore been ensured. But, at the same time, we also support public-private collaboration, for us fundamental in social action, and entities such as Casa de Misericòrdia Barcelona, Centre d'Acollida Assisi, Fundació NouXamfrà, Superacció or Fundació Roure, who work with vulnerable people, young people, older people or women victims of violence, will see how these budgets come out directly for them. For us, private public collaboration is essential. We want to acknowledge the great work done by all these organizations, associations, foundations, non-profit entities, as well as the Fundació d'ELA Miquel Valls, which works to help people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We are talking here about the proposed law on ALS, but the fact is that, if we are going to look for the useful policy, PeCAT in these general budgets of the State of 2023 and in the previous ones, and since 2022, it is the one who has tabled amendments so that the Foundation Miquel Valls has an allocation for the purpose of working in the field of multiple sclerosis and helping its functioning. This is therefore one of the compromise amendments which you are going to see and which demonstrates this concern for private public cooperation to have the support and recognition it touches on by the public authorities. There are certainly some pending amendments, which will constitute our future work, such as the question of the funds of the third sector's dependency or the increase in donations that can make individuals or companies social organizations. In this support to social entities, we need to seriously review the issue of what deductions may be made by donations they make in order to collaborate in this implementation of public-private collaboration as a better way to satisfy or to give way to these social rights. There is no doubt in my view that another matter should also be mentioned. The ministry should turn its political action away from advertisements or campaigns of the ministry, which have been more than controversial and which we do not share. Once again, we want to reject these promises, such as the family law, which was announced here by Vice President Pablo Iglesias, even before the COVID pandemic. It would be good to have more texts and fewer announcements, as well as less confrontation with the judiciary the controversies of the last few months. It is true that they will not find me defending some rulings of the judiciary that I consider totally unfair, but I believe that it is totally disproportionate and sterile the confrontation with the courts sucking them of a law that, according to my particular view, although quite shared, was quickly made in the parliamentary process, having needed much more fine surgery and dedication in order not to encounter previously warned situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u198	Thank you so much. Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u199	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The budgets of 2023 are born in a context marked by a war that could have been avoided, that is generating much death and destruction and that in our country is having the cost of inflation, with a reduction in the purchasing capacity of families. In this context of crisis they face these budgets with measures that raise the indirect wage and social shield to families and working people. The central axes of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 consolidate a paradigm shift which began in the 2020 and 2021 budgets and which put an end to the failed policies of the People's Party of cuts in public spending, reduction in the protective intensity and privatizations, which caused so much suffering. The current budgets highlight five important items, which were already priorities in the two previous budgets and which we consolidated in 2023. As the Minister has said, the Unit Shock Plan began in October 2020. The first budget proposal of this ministry has already begun to strengthen the system of care for dependence, with more than 600 million extraordinary, increasing the contribution of the State by 46%. It was the principle of a substantial change of course driven by our political force. The coalition agreement already included a commitment to create a genuine system of care for personal autonomy and dependence, something that the PP had boycotted and degraded in an absolutely irresponsible manner from the law of dependence. In January 2021, this ministry led to the Territorial Council and the Social Dialogue Table this Unit Shock Plan, which was approved and had three objectives: to eliminate waiting lists, to improve the working conditions of professionals and to improve the benefits and services of the system. The budgets of 2021 have already reversed the cuts of the People's Party with this investment increase of 600 million. In 2022 there was funding of 600 million more and in these of 2023 another 600 million more. That is to say, since 2020 this ministry has increased by more than 132% the contribution of the State to the service of care for personal autonomy and dependence. It's a historical thing. In addition, a new model of long-term care based on deinstitutionalization processes, home care, personal assistance and transformation of residential centres has been promoted to bring them as close to home as possible, to community environments. This is a specific component of the recovery plan, which is reflected in the agreement reached with the Autonomous Communities, the accreditation agreement and the quality of services and centres. However, total investment in this area will reach 4600 million, an absolutely historic figure in our country, with a State of well-being traditionally underfunded. A second axis is the strengthening of social services, a strategic line of this Government. They are services that have suffered very seriously also the cuts of the People's Party. They were cuts that, in a context of financial crisis, with great suffering and with great demand, caused the professionals to overload and left many families and people abandoned to their fate. These budgets of 2023 consolidate the increase of previous years, to exceed 200 million in transfers to the autonomous communities, which have competence in basic social services, for family programmes and care for child poverty and strengthening childcare and family care teams linked to the development of the children's law. A third line is the fund to strengthen care for unaccompanied migrant minors and adolescents, strengthening the action of the autonomous communities that are most responsive to this issue. Also the plan against poverty in the Canary Islands and the shock plan - very important - for the economy of care and strengthening of policies of equality and inclusion, component 22 of the recovery plan, with more than 1 billion for various plans: Plan of support and long-term care, Plan of modernization of social services, Plan of Spain Accessible Country, to advance in accessibility finally, and the National Plan of Digital Competences, for children. In short, historical transfers to the autonomous communities, which are the ones that have the competences, allowing for progress in autonomous communities such as mine, Valencian, to recover rights and advance in social rights, consolidating a social welfare system, with historical investments promoted by the work of this ministry. Finished. The neoliberal policies of the People's Party degraded attention to dependence, social services, all protection systems. These budgets demonstrate that this Government prioritizes public services and services that ensure greater autonomy and quality of life for the entire population. Thank you, Minister, because these budgets are the finding that, with political will, having people in the centre and managing effectively, it is possible to have public resources and reach agreements for the autonomous communities to advance in a model of more humane and protective care. Pensions will soon be revalued, the minimum wage will be raised, the Social Services Act, which is so necessary to consolidate the fourth pillar of the welfare state, the Family Act will be adopted. United We can continue to work for the adoption of the housing law, which protects this fundamental right, and we will continue to work for greater fiscal justice that allows courageous policies to protect. And even though they persecute us, insult us and try to ridicule our leaders, our ministers, we will continue to work to ensure that what the Constitution says follows, that all the wealth of the country in its various forms, whatever its ownership, is subordinated to the general interest. We'll keep working for this. Keep barking, keep embarrassing politics, which we work for the general interest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u200	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u201	Good afternoon. They should remove it from the Journal of Sessions, because they bark dogs. [[Applauds]] This is the most absolute loneliness of Minister Montero, the only one who should not be here today as a minister, and the rest of the ministers here are not accompanying her. We are discussing the coalition government's third budget, and I hope it will be the last, because it does not protect families and does not advance in social justice, no matter how much they repeat it. Three years since the embrace of Sanchez and Iglesias, turned into the covenant of insomnia for many families who cannot reach the end of the month. The minister said that they would not approve the budgets if the defence expenditure went up, and the minister remains a minister, contrary to her principles. And let's talk about disability, because they have cut the Accessible Country Spain Plan by 29%, vetoed amendments and, more importantly, drastically cut the funding of 0.7 of state disability entities. And the minister here follows, with Yolanda Díaz, who adds and continues, because she threatened to eliminate the special employment centres and became complicit. Lack of knowledge or ideology? Copy the proposal of the People's Party, President Núñez Feijóo, to improve the special employment centres by one hundred percent of the Social Security quota. Infancy and adolescence devote little, 3% to advertising and propaganda, disabling childhood again. And let's talk about families and social services, because it seems that this minister doesn't know that families today are 6% poorer, that food has risen 15.4% or that in Spain there are 6.7 million families that can't keep a proper temperature in their homes, twice as many people as in 2019. And the minister is still here. The light has risen by 148%, and in this House Mr. Pablo Iglesias asked for minutes of silence when the light was rising by 8%. I do not know what plan Minister Belarus has for families who are afraid that the bills they will not be able to pay will arrive, a minister who wastes 27 million of European funds, with an increasingly large government, with more advisers, and poverty continues to grow. A fact. In Spain there are 13 million people at risk of poverty, two million more since you govern. And the minister here follows. That is true, there is money for animal rights, advertising and current expenditure, which grows by 40%, but there is no money for the elderly or dependents, to provide the accreditation agreement for the services and centers of the System for Autonomy and Care to the Unit. They say they defend the public, but they have not created a single public residential square and, meanwhile, 46,300 people have died in Spain on the waiting list of the dependency and there are four hundred thousand people waiting for a procedure. And veto our amendment so that the government and the autonomous communities co-finance the dependency at 50%. Then there is the delay in the Social Services Act, the opacity, which the minister has not even mentioned, but there is a great deal of haste to pass other laws that allow rapists and abusers of minors to get out of prison. That's why there's a hurry. [[Applauds]] While this happens, the ministers are entangled in their offices, insulting the judiciary, without recognizing their mistakes and unprotecting the victims. Where's the 'brother, I do believe you'? In the face of such an uproar, Minister, you should not be as a minister on 25 November. [[Applauds]] It also passes with the Family Law. They agreed on the budget negotiations to be adopted in October.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u202	Your Honor, finish, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u203	For families there is no urgency, but it is urgent to agree with the seditious to repeal the crime of sedition - that is urgent - with the sole objective...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u204	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u205	... that Sánchez remains president of the government and the minister, minister. [[Applauds]] It's over. With you there is more poverty... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u206	You must conclude, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u207	... more inequality, rapists and free beatings. [[Protests]] This is the Spain that you are going to leave. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u208	Mr Alonso Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u209	Thank you, President. We know that Mrs Belarus does not care very much about the SDGs; in fact, she has not been able to appear in our Commission once since she was appointed minister, because she has been very busy insulting the main opposition party and attacking the judges. Let me tell you that you have a very long tongue and a very fine skin, because if a colleague of mine qualifies Minister Montero as useless, we are facing a tragedy and a macho attack, but if Mrs Belarra calls my party from this clandestine organization of criminals from this rostrum, nothing happens here. [[Applauds]] The usual double measuring rod. I have little time, but enough time to say that their actions are incompatible with the commitments made in the Sustainable Development Goals. Spain committed itself to these goals to put an end to poverty and hunger, and with you in the government, just in the past year, 400,000 more Spaniards are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Spain has committed itself to adopting and strengthening sound policies to promote gender equality, but you pass a law with Mrs Montero - who is here - at the head that takes rapists out of jail day after day. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Spain has committed itself to an affordable and non-polluting energy, but with you the price of light, fuel or gas has been fired. I still remember that the minister - here present - manifested herself and put the cry in the sky when the light went up 4 and 8 %. Now shut up, won't you, Mrs. Montero? Now shut up. [[A Member: Yes]] In short, Spain committed itself to 17 objectives that are not being met with you, from the first to the last. Most of the budget of the State Secretariat for the 2030 Agenda goes into grants and publicity, which is why we are trying to correct any kind of arbitrariness with our amendments. And, as you well know, coordination between ministries - because we all know that - is being a disaster. That is why we in the People's Parliamentary Group are very proud of some amendments which would certainly make this budget more sustainable, although many of them have already been vetoed by you by the roll. I must remind you that one of the main objectives of the agenda demands the importance of independent justice and strong institutions, something that you are attacking head-on every day. Cicero said: 'People who no longer have a solution, who live in despair, often have these deadly epilogues: prisoners are rehabilitated in all their rights, prisoners are released, exiles are returned, judicial sentences are invalidated. When this happens, there is no one who does not understand that that is the total collapse of such a state.' Cicero said this two thousand years before the 2030 Agenda will be adopted. He knew Julius Caesar, but he did not have the fortune to meet statesmen the size of Ione Belarus, Pedro Sánchez, Lilith Verstrynge or you, Mrs Montero, but, however, they will agree with me that he could not have described it better. [[laughs]] Thank you very much. [[Mr.Mariscal Anaya: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u210	Thank you. Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u211	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more year, this government allocates the entire expenditure line to meeting the Sustainable Development Goals, but most people do not know what that is about the 2030 Agenda, the Sustainable Development Goals, so I will explain it. On the one hand, we have the UN summits: the climate summit, the population summit, the education summit... A number of conclusions are drawn from these summits and a global consensus is said to have been reached. These conclusions are reflected in an agenda, the 2030 Agenda, which is the solution to all problems. On the other hand, the UN has a number of agencies: the WHO, which is dedicated to health; UNESCO, to education, science and culture; FAO, to food and agriculture; the WTO, to trade, and so on; as precisely here the ministries, twenty-two. Some have decided that the UN should act as the 'World Government'; it already has its agencies, which at a certain point could act as if ministries were involved. For example, the WHO, if there was a pandemic, could be the 'World Health Ministry', right? Sounds like it to you, doesn't it? So that a 'world government' can exist what needs to be done is to homogenize the world, because, of course, it is chaos that each has its own customs, that each has its own religion, culture. Then there's another problem, and it's that, 8 billion people are many people, and how are so many people going to be handled? Something must be done to handle them; for example, use a very effective tool, the tool of fear, because that goes very well for obedience. The main excuse is the climate apocalypse. The climate apocalypse serves absolutely everything. Because, moreover, man is the culprit; man is the culprit, he is the only culprit for the climate to change. So, we're going to have to change the whole crop system, the whole livestock system, and, with that, the whole food system, the energy system, the industry system, we're going to change the education system. We must also reduce the population, because so many people pollute a lot. And what's done? First, what they do is they impoverish us and then they promote abortion, gender ideology, they create mistrust between couples, because all that goes very well to reduce the population. [[Applauds]] Of course, borders are very unfair, because, of course, with rising temperatures, more than 2 billion people are going to have to emigrate to fresher countries, and we have to open borders in pairs, because if not, we are insolidarians. The solution to all evils is in the 2030 Agenda. [[Shows a portfolio of the 2030 Agenda]] It is a perfect plan to put an end to poverty, for affordable energy, for decent work and for all goodness, but very little is said about the 169 goals that are hidden behind the seventeen goals. [[Show again the 2030 Agenda folder]] 193 countries commit to this plan; Spain signed this 2030 Agenda at the hands of the People's Party, in 2015. [[Applauds]] And what are we doing? Well, we're turning the agenda into law. Everything, very sustainable, and resilient, very inclusive and very gender-sensitive. Right, Irene Montero? The one who refuses to obey this agenda or the one who denies the theses of globalism is a negationist and is out of the law. [[Applauds]] Spain obeys because this agenda is designed to dictate the elites of the World Economic Forum, those elites who - who, what a coincidence! - happen to have interests in the pharmaceutical industry, in energy and in food, and Pedro Sánchez loves to obey them, because that of going to the World Economic Forum he loves; they are all his friends. What does it mean for Spain to obey this agenda? It implies the deconstruction of the society we are seeing; it implies an absolute transfer of national sovereignty; it implies food dependence; it represents the ruin of industry; it means, above all, misery. [[Applauds]] Spain presents general State budgets and allocates 100 per cent of expenditure to the implementation of Agenda 2030. Section 29, Social Rights and Agenda 2030, is an antisocial section, and it is because social rights are being able to pay the price of energy and not pass a climate change law that will lead us to ruin and energy dependence. [[Applauds]] A social right is a quality public health, it is not neglecting the patients with ALS, it is not abandoning the patients with cancer because the treatments are very expensive. A social right is care for those who really need help, it is not to consider women or the LGBT collective as disabled. Social rights are the protection of children and adolescents, it is not to cover up the abuse of minors, Mrs Montero, and it is not to whitewash pederasty. [[Applauds]] Social rights is to help mothers roast forward, it is not the promotion of abortion. Social rights are a well-attended maturity, not euthanasia. Social rights are safe streets, not rapists on the streets. Social rights is quality education, not indoctrination for the imposition of a single thought. [[Applauds]] Social law is to facilitate access to housing, not to protect the Okupas. Social rights are food and food sovereignty, not hunger and dependence on other countries. Social rights are human rights, not animal rights. Mrs Belarra, absent, as long as there is only one Spanish passing cold or hungry, you have no right to allocate 1760 000 euros in the boost of the 2030 Agenda. Minister, absent, we have the right to dissent, we have the right to freedom, we have the right to protect our sovereignty, to decide on those issues that are crucial to our lives. We have the right to break this agenda and get to work for and for Spain. You don't do it. Neither will the People's Party. VOX will. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u212	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Guerra López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u213	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are so interested in social rights that while your spokesman speaks, you sing the goals of the Spanish team. [[Applauds]] That is the respect they have for Spanish citizenship. I'm going to give you a clear, forceful and unappealable statement. These budgets that we defend today devote six out of every ten euros to social investment - six out of every ten euros - and we do so despite you, ladies and gentlemen of the right and of the right, who have done everything that is decipherable and undecidable, decipherable and undecidable to overthrow this legitimate government, democratically elected by Spanish citizens, in the Trump style, in the Bolsonaro style, but it is not necessary to go so far, in the Ayuso style. Because, if you claim to defend the rights of citizens as much as you say, how can you vote against budgets that increase social investment by 27% over Mr Rajoy's last budgets? And you, lords of Citizens? Your Honor Giménez, you say you don't understand us. We don't understand you. How can you vote in favour of the budgets of the Government of corruption and vote against the budgets of the Government of social rights, of minimum living income, of the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, of attention to dependence, of universal accessibility? Do you know why, Mrs. Giménez? You know why? [[applause]] I'm going to tell you, because the three games in Columbus Square were the same, they're the same and they'll be the same. [[Applauds]] They defend the interests of those who have the most against the opportunities and rights of those who need it the most. And, before his model, this bench, the socialist bench, which says loud and clear no: not to his corruption, not to his cuts, not to his layoffs, not to his evictions, not to his austerity policies. This bench, the socialist bench, and this government says loud and clear yes: yes to transparency, yes to good government, yes to social investment, yes to ERTE, yes to the professional minimum wage, yes to relieve the mortgages of one million Spanish and Spanish. [[Mrs. Giménez Giménez makes negative signs.-Applause]] And yes, ladies and gentlemen, a strong and clear yes to fiscal justice, because only with fiscal justice will we have social justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your mouth is filled by saying that you are defending families, and you are lying. Once again you come here and lie. If you were to defend the Spanish families, you would vote in favour of these budgets; if you were to defend the Spanish families, you would vote to make more money for those who have the most, so that everyone in this country has a right. [[Applauds]] But let's be clear, let's put names and surnames, let's put a face on the games that you say you don't. These accounts have increased the amount of protection for families and the fight against child poverty by 86% compared to Mr Rajoy's latest budgets. You are saying not to protect families and fight child poverty. These budgets increase the focus on dependency for the third consecutive year by an extraordinary €600 million. Since 2020, a total of 18 billion euros extraordinary for attention to dependency. You're saying not to be invested in dependency. And, by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you will already explain this to Moreno Bonilla, Fernández Mañueco and Díaz Ayuso. They tell them, for their part, that they have said no to those 600 million extraordinary euros to manage the unit, or they also tell them, for their part, that they vote no to the 8 million euros to make policies of universal accessibility thanks to the Accessible Spain Plan. Go there, to their territories, and they explain it, and they also explain it to the 165,675 citizens who have had the right to care for dependence since the administration of this Government. [[Applauds]] Go to the citizens and tell them that they do not want them to have the right to care for dependence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party who, as my colleague Montse Mínguez said, support the amendment, stop considering the increase in pensions as a loss of the purchasing power of young people, when these budgets are the ones that invest the most in youth. And you pose it as if you had to choose between the dignity of pensioners or employees, as if the real problem were not in the precariousness of some wages, as if the real problem were not in the precariousness of some pensions, as if the real problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, were not in that some get rich during a war conflict, or that the bad bank is rescued, or that there is still corruption in Marbella, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you do not learn!, that you do not learn!, that in good government and transparency you do not learn! [[Applauds]] I will tell you loud and clear: here, the only ones who emptied the huts of the pensions and sent our young people to exile and call it external mobility were you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen of the right and of the right, the only truth is that, as I said at the beginning, six out of every ten euros of these budgets are earmarked for social investment, and you say no. The only truth is that the tax reform that this government is defending will make more contributions to those that they have, and you say no. And the only truth is that these budgets ensure that the Spanish and Spanish, regardless of their cradle, live with dignity, and you say no again. And in the face of its classism, our defense to the extreme of social justice and equal opportunities, because that is how we understand politics, because claiming the rights of those who need it most is why this party was born and that is why we continue to exist, because we are the Socialist Party, we are the people's party. [[A Member of the Commission: Very well!-A Member of the European Parliament: A picture has been given to you!-Applause from the Socialist Group, Members of the European Parliament, on their feet]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs. War. Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. We move on to the debate in section 30, Ministry of Equality. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u215	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I appear before this House to report, as the President said, on section 30 of the general budgets of the State, which corresponds to the Ministry of Equality. For the third year in a row, we are bringing to this House a budget that is committed to a historic investment in feminist public policies. For this new year the budget of the Ministry of Equality increases by 9%, reaching the historical figure of 573 million euros. In consolidated terms, this budget was increased by EUR 47 million and, if we also take account of European funds, the budget of the Ministry of Equality is increased by 14%. When the feminist movement demanded less lacy institutions and more money, it pointed out an undeniable truth: only with solid public investment is it possible to deploy public policies that allow the State to guarantee all rights for all women. To end machismo, the inequality between women and men is essential to redistribute wealth, time and care; to end machismo and inequality between men and women, it is essential to build strong and present public services throughout the territory. Precisely for this reason, in order to end sexism and inequality between women and men, it is essential to bet on a just and progressive taxation in which those who have the most, the most contribute, because only if we strengthen the common thing, that is, if we make our society stronger, can we ensure that we close the gaps in inequality and that all people have the same opportunities to develop their life projects. This coalition government fulfils the mandate of the women of our country, clearly increasing investment in feminist public policies in each fiscal year. 41% of our budget will go to programmes aimed at promoting equal opportunities, with a total of EUR 232 million, i.e. an increase of 3.7% over the previous year. The budget for equal treatment and diversity policies will increase by EUR 3 million, 73.4% more than in 2022. The policy budget for the eradication of machist violence amounts to EUR 320 million, allocating 56% of the total budget for this purpose. We overcome for the first time the 300 million euro barrier to build a society free of violence against women. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, put on the table the strength of the facts in the face of the weakness of their lies, of their promotion of sexual terror in order to create insecurity for women, especially the victims of sexist violence. The coalition government and the feminist majority of the legislative branch are making progress to ensure that the State fulfils all its obligations in the fight against sexist violence, to open more and more secure doors that give access to rights, to reach out to all women, to fight against all violence and to fulfil all our responsibilities. These budgets will enable us to improve the capacity for prevention and early detection of violence against women, open crisis centres for 24 hours so that any victim of sexual violence has close, and without need of reporting, the best specialized psychological care, legal advice, social workers who accompany them in access to their economic and social rights, improve the 016 service and ensure the proper working conditions of their staff, promote the activity of the feminist associative fabric, which saves lives, ladies and gentlemen, or modernize the tools available for the protection of women victims of any form of macho violence. These budgets will allow us to deploy the 'yes only' law, a law that guarantees for the first time in Spain a framework for effective and robust protection of the rights of women victims of sexual violence to prevent and detect such violence early, to provide all women with comprehensive, specialized and also reparation care. [[applause]] These budgets allow us to make progress in the implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence and improve its funding. The investment of public resources, together with the reference catalogue of policies and services on violence that we have just adopted at a sectoral conference, will enable us to improve the quality and scope of specialized public services throughout the territory for victims of gender-based violence. I would also like to focus on public investment in the Correspondent Plan, the first public policy of conciliation articulated by the State in coordination with the autonomous communities and the municipalities, an essential pillar in order to advance the guarantee of the right to care in our country. This Corresponding Plan, which we launched in the year 2021 with 190 million euros and which continued with a second heading of 200 million in 2022, is consolidated in this new budget year with a heading of 201 million euros. This plan translates into essential public policies for the day-to-day lives of many families, particularly of many women: ludotheques and public childcare spaces that allow reconciliation outside school hours, professionals who provide support on school and out-of-school routes and transfers, reinforcement of school canteens and camps or home care for children aged 0 to 3 years. I remind you that, according to data from the International Labour Organization, approximately 3.8 million people in Spain are engaged in paid care work. The Corresponsible Plan also dignifies and recognizes this work, a feminized work, an invisible work, a precarious work, but without which, as we have heard in so many feminist mobilizations, it is for the world. With these budgets, we therefore recognize that care must not only be distributed more equitably between women and men, but also that the State must be co-responsible. These budgets also send a message to women and to society as a whole. It is precisely in times of difficulty that we must make the most progress on the rights of more than half of the population that we are women. We are not complacent and know that much remains to be done, but we are determined to move forward. For the crises the right proposes corruption, privileges for the richest and cuts for the social majority, to carry the worst consequences of the crisis on the bodies of women who care for their homes and their families, who occupy the most precarious jobs, who suffer the consequences of cuts and privatizations in health, education or dependency. With the economic management of the right, women and working people are being cut back on their rights as they see the money of everyone being handed over to the big financial companies without asking them to give it back, and the rich and corrupt benefit from their tax amnesties. The right-wing side believes that good economic management is about increasing inequalities, particularly gender inequalities. The feminist majority of this Congress and the coalition government know that economic management is good when it is possible to deal with inequality, especially at the most difficult times. Increasing public investment in feminist policies, i.e., in public conciliation services, in dependency policies, in services that protect women who are victims of sexist violence, is a necessary condition to deal with difficulties from the ordinary and without making them fall on women's bodies. I'll tell you this with figures. The investment of these general state budgets in feminist policies is almost seven times greater, ladies and gentlemen, seven times greater than the resources allocated by Mr M's People's Party. Rajoy from the papers of Bárcenas to feminist rights. In the worst years of the financial crisis, with Mr Moreno Bonilla at the head of the Secretariat of State for Equality, there was a cut of 46% of the budget, which was 41 million euros against the current 573. No wonder you don't want to talk about feminist budgets, ladies and gentlemen, because these data are valued alone. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to make a brief reference to the gender impact budget memory. Of the 379 expenditure programmes, 372, 98% were considered gender sensitive. Of these, 20 % are of high relevance. This means that in this budget year we allocate more than €57 billion with high relevance to gender impact, that is, they make a decisive contribution to progress towards equality between women and men. We are talking about public policies of employment, education, entrepreneurship, fiscal policies, policies aimed at the family or at children's rights that directly impact in their development and implementation on the improvement of the living conditions of all women in our country and particularly those who need it most. Thanks - and I conclude - to all the parliamentary groups, particularly those of the feminist, progressive and plurinational majority of investiture, which are striving to improve these budgets and to make this important public policy tool a tool for the women of our State. Thanks to the feminist majority in this House for committing to the advances in feminist rights despite the fierce resistance we are encountering and we will find ourselves on the way. All of them should know that every time they come they will find us working and winning rights. Let women's struggle live! Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u216	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u217	Thank you, President, Minister. I'll start by making a reference to Mrs. War. Of course, in Citizens we know how to work social policy!, despite who weighs it, and you know it quite well, but what has not been made clear to me is whether you are going to unlock the law of the ELA or not, because none of that has answered me. [[Applauds]] Let's see if, please, within everything you can say, you can tell me if you're going to unlock it or not. On the other hand, I would like to begin by recalling that this Friday is 25 November, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. We want to launch our message of regret for the victims of this scourge and express our strongest condemnation and our commitment to ending this social scourge at once. From Citizens we want to continue working for equality, and that is why we need to properly evaluate and renew the State Pact against Gender Violence. Despite this attitude that we tend to have at hand when talking about issues that have to do with equality, with improving our country, with further progress in the prevention and protection of victims of gender-based violence, I cannot hide a sense of disappointment when we look at the equality heading in these budgets that we are debating today. And I speak of disappointment with this Ministry of Equality, because it seems to my parliamentary group that it is inexplicable that those who once again presume to be the most social government in history and to take their defence of the rights of women and girls look elsewhere when we bring to this House proposals to put an end to a scourge such as trafficking in persons. Ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that there are at least 11,000 trafficked persons in Spain alone. Most - they already know - are women and girls. From Citizens we have been asking from the beginning of the legislature for a law of trafficking in our country to help end this scourge. There seem to be announcements that we are going to have a trafficking law, but so far we do not have any on schedule, we do not have any established program, so we are going to continue with the demand for a trafficking law. In addition, we have been denied an amendment to develop measures to prevent trafficking in persons and to pave the way for this future law that we have been calling for for more than five years. We do not understand why a trafficking-related measure is vetoed. We do not know what the ministry's justification is for not accepting this amendment. Sometimes there are vetoes that we don't understand. We do not know whether it is only a question of saying that it is not what comes from Citizens, which is what happened to me in the previous intervention, or what is happening, because ideological involvement does not have; what it has is a great social implication and a great advance in the defense of equality. You are therefore the government of the veto rather than the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and We can, I ask you again, bring into this House a law of trafficking so that we can debate, work and vote on all groups, but that we can work rigorously and with the time it deserves. Do not bring us a law of trafficking at the last moment, so that we go again fast and running without being able to work something that needs a thorough job. That's what he asked for, too. On the other hand, one of our amendments, which I hope will be supported, remains alive and proposes to include in these accounts an item for the adoption of protocols for the detection, identification, assistance and protection of minors who are victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation. We are confident that the Government will abandon the criterion of 'let us down all that comes from Citizens' and support these kinds of amendments. The same is true of other amendments that we have proposed for the advancement of women, in order to reduce the gaps that exist in our country, namely the Now You Programme, a project aimed at making visible and empowering women who have taken scientific and technological disciplines to motivate girls to follow their steps. In Spain only 16% of the professionals in the so-called STEM careers are women, i.e. the branches of science, technology, engineering and mathematics still do not occupy them, as they should be, women. That is why we believe that it would be one of the programs that should be supported, because only 0.7% of Spanish teenagers say they are interested in studying a degree of this type of discipline. These are also gaps that we must overcome, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, and here you have several proposals to get to work. We have tabled another amendment to boost the programme to increase this type of technical vocation among the girls in our country. So again I insist that you look at the amendments, look at the content and support what you think is good for the protection and evolution of women's equality. To close, another gap that affects women is that in the rural world, and we have a living amendment to increase the resources of the Digitalized Programme, which seeks to increase the digital skills of women in the rural world and thus reduce the vulnerability situation that many of them face in these rural environments. We have also presented a programme for the promotion of equal opportunities and the socio-occupational integration of women in rural municipalities. In short, they are measures that we believe are of a very technical nature and that provide concrete solutions, and we hope that they will be accepted. Our parliamentary group is at your disposal to continue to carry out rigorous work, work that advances in the promotion of the equality of men and women, a promotion in which we must also make progress in a united way. I take the opportunity to say again in this House what I have said on other occasions: on equality issues, we have to show unity, we do not have to create social alarmism; we have to do a job that really generates social cohesion. It's on this path that I think we'll find ourselves on. We have a great parliamentary duty, which is to lower rifts, to lower confrontations, because I believe that is what our society deserves. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u218	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, let me begin with the most obvious: Today you should not be on the blue bench. Today, in the same week of the 25th, it is an insult to the victims to remain seated here. [[Applauds]] This unprecedented event, in any other country, after what it has caused, is explained only for two reasons, its pride and the inability of the President of the Government to cast it out, of course, because it would require a president who, in addition to presiding and resisting, would govern and who, in addition to defending himself, would defend women. Everything's good for him, all he's willing to do is go on for another day. It's people's government against people. But with you, I admit I was wrong. A year ago I asked him what he was doing and I recommended that he be unable to bring any of the laws he had announced to this House. I told her you were a minister unable to move from the banner to the BOE. I was not wrong about that, because you are unable to move from the banner to the BOE, but I recognize that, no matter how expensive your Ministry comes out, you better do nothing; really, do no more laws, do not approve anything else. By the way, if this aberration had been approved by the People's Party, where you would be right behind the banner, on the streets, exalted, asking for resignation. At least have the courage to recognize him. You and your continuing scandals, your artificial controversies and your confrontations with everyone, even the feminist movement, make them indefensible when you go up to defend your budgets. In the People's Party we share the need for equality policies. It was not in vain that we adopted the first order of protection, we promoted the state pact and it was when the wage gap narrowed the most. But we are faced with one more ministry to distribute chairs and contribute to the superstructure of high offices. Your budget only responds to this. We do not question those policies that are necessary for women, for co-responsibility, for reconciliation, for remedies against gender-based violence, we question it to you. [[Applauds]] The budget of his ministry is raised on the backs of the women of this country, to whom, like the whole of society, they express instead of lowering their taxes; working mothers, single mothers, autonomous to whom life costs more and more. If you want, let's go to the data. I have asked you year after year whether you believe that the lives of Spanish women have improved as well as the budget of your ministry has improved. Data: Spain is at the head of female unemployment and more than doubles the European average. 57 per cent of Spanish women have suffered salary loss by becoming mothers. The gender gap has intensified from 35.9 to 36.7, delaying the date of full parity until 2058. The largest gender gap is found in the area of conciliation, worsening by 3.2 percentage points compared to 2021. In the People's Party we have proposed an alternative in our amendments, which go beyond giving more support to women to join the labour market, so that they are more autonomous, freer. I do, however, recognize that for the first time I have budgeted a programme for the prevention of sexual abuse in foster care centres, which recognizes the problem he has denied. The denunciation and the disqualifications to which we denounce in his day will have been worth it. Let's go to his star law, the law of the only one is yes, a law in which they thought more about the slogan and the propaganda than about the rigour and technical correction that demanded what they had in their hands: the protection of women, the procedural guarantees or the Penal Code. It was warned by the General Council of the Judiciary, it was warned by the associations of judges, it was warned rigorously and explicitly by my colleague, Mrs Marta González. You, who stood up with the flag of feminism, have ended up being the ultimate responsible for reducing penalties to aggressors. [[Applauds]] In Balears, for example, he left two of the three aggressors who participated in a group rape on the street a year earlier. With your law. They're not judges, nor is it a conspiracy of all against you. I'm going to read what the victim's lawyer said yesterday in the Last Hour of Majorca newspaper: We're living in a terrible situation for the victim. The victims of these attacks and their environment are not prepared to understand what has happened and how they may be released from prison earlier thanks to a law. If I were the Minister of Equality, I wouldn't sleep when I saw what happened. [[Applauds]] Social alarm is not spreading reality, Mrs Montero, social alarm is what has provoked your law and that of all those who supported it, because it is true that you have not been alone in this. The Social Alarm is that you continue to legislate. I open quotes: It is not a matter of sexist judges, but of professional judges applying the law. Judges have a strict obligation to apply the most favourable criminal law. What needs to be done is to propose a new text. I close quotes. This is not said by the People's Party, says the vice president of the Balearic Government, of his party and judge of the surplus penal. That is why we ask you to review this law by urgent means. As President Feijóo said, the law of yes yes has meant the greatest setback in the protection of women in decades. But as not even with these Sanchez will cease, simply because he cannot, I ask you that with his trans law, now that he is still in time, abandon pride. Listen to the women, the real feminists, the experts, the doctors, the scientific community, listen to someone before the mess against women and minors becomes inevitable again. Mrs Montero, in my first speech in this House I told you that you were not feminism. What I didn't know then was that you're not even a feminist. What I am asking you to do, almost three years later, is to stop doing policy against women and to resign from dignity, responsibility and respect for the victims today. Thank you very much. [[Some Members: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u220	Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Rumors.-Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] Mr. Hispan, please hold back. The time has come for me to tell you, it's been all afternoon. [[Rumors]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u221	Good afternoon. Finally, in this debate, we come to the section they have been talking about since Monday at all points in the plenary. [[Rumors]] Since Monday, no matter what has to be discussed, the mantra was to attack the Ministry of Equality by system; if I hurry, it is the mantra of this legislature for an opposition led by a PP that hardly resembles that which will vote in 2017 in favor of the State Pact against Gender Violence, because now they can this competition to see who has the most agile misogynism for the zasc against the minister and his team. [[Mrs. Martínez Ferro: Yes, man! But if you're a woman!-Applause]] It is true that this is like the teacher's table and that you see everything, you hear everything and you know who says it. [[Mrs. Martínez Ferro: I'm saying it so you can hear it.]] So, if you want to continue, Your Honor, you can repeat it to us. [[Mrs. Martinez Ferro: That you can't call me misogynist]] You have very agile misogyny in a competition with the ultra-right, and I repeat it, so I am going to defend section 30, which has perfectly explained the minister in your departures, in order to defend directly the Ministry of Equality and this coalition government, and I am not going to do so as much as a Member of the United Nations We can, which is obvious and that is what allows me to go up to this rostrum, but as a feminist. I wanted to be a feminist because I am not able to lose sight that these attacks are because you have several problems. Specifically, they have three. The first, the fundamental, is called autonomous feminist movement, because they can't buy it and because we don't need the redistribution of wealth and power. Putting life in the center is putting all lives in the center and not just a few privileged ones. Do you remember the eve of the 8-M, when in the tertullian tertullians began to say that the manifesto of that 8-M of 2018 was not against sexism, but against the system, and we said who we were there: Yes, it is true, because the system is sexist and patriarchal and is racist and, by the way, it is classist as well, and those are also causes that challenge feminism, at least class and anti-racist feminism, which I sincerely believe is the only one that makes sense today. Because this is not only about the glass ceilings that privileged white women have to break, but also about the sticky floors that have to be cleaning all the sisters that are in much more difficult conditions everywhere and with very diverse realities. [[Applauds]] So, as we and the feminist movement are not worth the feminism of Miss Pepis, you don't like the feminist movement. Another problem is called the Ministry of Equality. They do not like it, they say it all the time, and they have also shown it, because when they have ruled there has been no such Ministry of Equality. In fact, in their governments what there was was a portfolio that the last responsible popular minister was negligently carrying, Dolors Monserrat, who was reprobated in the XII Legislature for his management of health, of social services, but, above all, because he did not do absolutely anything with the state pact that had been reached in this House, that yes, we were dizzy with trilateral games from where are the budgets?, where is the execution calendar? The minister said it, we said it with pots and spoons in our hands: Less lattices and more money. That's what we told Mariano Rajoy, who after the photo with the pact to clean up the remains of having appeared at the National Court, did nothing more. The last of the problems you have is called Irene Montero, because, as journalist and writer Isaac Rosa wrote this week, it is all that bothers the elitist and Gerontocratic power: it is woman, it is young, it is working class, it is left-wing and it is Podemos and, moreover, it is fighting every right with perseverance and resistance, rights for women, rights for the LGBTI community, rights for all, for all and, yes, ladies and gentlemen, for 'all'. [[Applauds]] They can so much for this misogyny and class retention that the deputies of this House of People's Bank allow themselves to exercise political violence against the minister. [[Protests]] You see, section 30 has a deployment of items that serve to implement the Ministry's commitments to fulfil the Government agreement, and this legislature will eventually leave the whole State with a law of its own, a law of abortion, a trans law, equality plans; feminist measures that go through all budgets because they are going to strengthen public services, they will raise pensions, the SMI, the IPREM, the unemployment subsidy; the guarantee of thermal subsidies, of transport subsidies, of measures for young people in the field of housing. All this is thanks to the firmness of the Ministry of Equality. And that is their problem, that we are doing politics, yes, for people; that we are demonstrating that feminism offers a democratic compass to achieve social justice and that what we said when we were opposition now we do, even despite two crises in these two years of government that do not allow us to be triumphalists. We do it and we prove it works. This ministry is key to women. This ministry does not hold us responsible when we are sexually assaulted, as ex-Minister Fernández Díaz did when he told us what we should do to avoid being raped, when he was Minister of the Interior. What this ministry does is to accompany us, give us psychological coverage, repair us. This ministry does not blame us for having to get out of the violence, but speaks to those who exercise it, tells them to stop hiding and, in passing, tells men to get involved in a struggle that, through justice and democracy, challenges them. This ministry does not hinder or stigmatize us by deciding on our own bodies, but rather expands our sexual and reproductive rights. This ministry appoints us, recognizes us as citizens. That's why you have to invent, because the facts are on this side, because the advances - even now, if we're not fully aware - are passing into history and we're not going to let one of us get bogged down. Plus, we're gonna go for more. There is something else that makes this ministry a problem for you. Those who are in it, especially Minister Irene Montero, know that there is a Ministry of Equality and, I say more, know that there is a coalition government because there is supposed to be a social response and a response because there was a strong feminist movement, which has been able to give a social response to two crises. We know and check that if women stop, they stand for the world, and that force scares those who do everything with influences, with envelopes B, with the powers that do not run for election. Much remains to be done, and we are not going to sound triumphant. That's a lot more to do.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u222	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u223	I'm done, President. I say, with all pride, because it is costing a lot, that we must recognize that the Ministry of Equality and by extension this Government are fulfilling their commitments for more attacks they receive. I say, with all conviction, "Feminist fight! Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u224	Thank you. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u225	With the venom. Mrs Montero, you are the worst thing that has happened to Spain in recent years: 592 million euros to end equality and freedom, imposing in Spain the infamous gender ideology. This ideology, like all totalitarianisms, is disguised as equality, freedom and happiness, but the reality is very different. This scientific creed, which uses fictitious collectives to victimize them at the stroke of law and of chiringuitos, preaches that gender is a constructosocial distinct from biological sex, that we can choose our identity regardless of reality, and all this accompanied by a crazy and complex feminism. What's the end? Destroy human nature under the banners of equality and freedom. It is a matter of making an alienated human being, without family ties or love and commitment, without ties to reality; a human being who has everything he wants, like an evil child, at the expense of the rights of others, for example, abortion; a human being victimized, ignorant, without discernment and therefore manipulable, without spirituality, irreligious, hedonist, merely bodily and genital. In short, a man in whom human nature disappears. And how is this world of alienated people created? For through language, propaganda, indoctrination, legislation and a lot of money; in total, EUR 592 million. Of those €592 million, 190 are for the Correspondent Plan, which is a nice way of saying that the State is getting into our homes to tell us how we have to organize men and women time and tasks; 27 million for a Women's Institute, which has two basic ends: to promote a feminism of male haters and to promote abortion; 320 million for the fight against what you call gender violence, that is, to leave women unprotected, to criminalize men, to violate their presumption of innocence and that they can be accused without evidence, and to abandon children who are assaulted, abused and abducted when the offender is a woman. [[applause]] The law of sexual freedom is more than the same: to facilitate false complaints against men, to demonize any input that a woman does not like, to decriminalize the sex of children under the age of sixteen and to release the culprits to the street. We're never gonna be able to get here alone and drunk. I have to make a forced stop here, Minister, liberating rapists. I do not rule out the fact that this reduction in penalties has been made with premeditation and awe given his allergy to having murderers out of prison, but he has also dared to insult the entire judiciary. [[applause.-Protests]] You have to have it of reinforced cement to insult professionals who have spent years of their life studying law and an opposition when the only merit you have is. [[having studied in depth Paul Iglesias]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] Minister, you knew your law would lower the penalties. [[The protests continue.-The ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of Unity We can-In Communal May-Galicia in common, hitting the seats with the hand: Shame! Shame on you! Shame on you!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u226	Ladies and gentlemen. (Protests continue.-) Ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary groups of the United Nations We can-In Comú Ponde-Galicia in common and Socialist, hitting the seats with our hand: Shame! Shame on you! Shame on you! The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group stand up and clap as they shout: Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Ladies and gentlemen of the Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia parliamentary groups in common and Socialist, beating the seats with the hand: Shame! Shame on you! Shame on you! Mayor Perales: The people are the ones who choose!- Ladies and gentlemen of the Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia parliamentary groups in common and Socialist, hitting the seats with your hand: It's not worth everything! It's not worth everything! It's not worth everything! Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up, clapping their hands as they shouted: 'Freedom!' Freedom! Freedom!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u227	Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! [[One Member: Not to insult!-The ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary groups of the United Nations We can-in Comú Puem-Galicia in Common and Socialist, hitting them with their seats: It is not worth everything! It's not worth everything! It is not worth everything!-The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up, clapping as they shout: Freedom! Freedom! Freedom!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u228	Sit down, please, ladies and gentlemen. Sit down. [[Protests]] Your Honor, I beg you to withdraw your reference to the minister concerning her personal relationship with Paul Iglesias. [[Denials]] He will be removed from the Journal of Sessions, and called her to order for the first time. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Please. [[Protests continue.-Applause]] Go on, I called her to order for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u229	Minister, you knew your law would lower the penalties, you've had many reports in your hands. Be brave and say it: you want criminals on the street, you want rape victims or child abuse victims to be afraid, because fear is what your ideology and ministry nourishes. It is 7 million euros to promote LGTBI and trans laws, to give privileges to people according to who they sleep with, financial impose corruption of minors, to advertise the self-perception of sex passing through the arch of triumph biological reality and to promote irreversible mutilation. All this reinforced by the law of equality, which, with the excuse of avoiding discrimination, does what it does is to cut the freedoms in a flagrant way to the Spaniards. Special mention deserves his propaganda in favor of abortion, to legitimize as a right what is nothing more than murder and promote it - like trans law - in minors without parental consent. [[Applauds]] Not to mention expenses as scandalous as 1 250 000 euros in a campaign to be obese and go unwaxed, 17,000 euros in a report on the benefits of excusing women prisoners - what love and vice you have with letting go of criminals -,2 million euros for the campaign of The Soft Man and 18,000 euros in studies to know if women have more orgasms with their partner or masturbating. In addition to spending money on things that are intimate aspects of our lives, you are a sexual obsession. [[Applauds]] In short, Mrs Montero, your ministry's budgets are aimed at violating fundamental rights and inventing false rights, criminalizing men and giving priority to women, gay and transgender, treating them as if they were disabled. They are budgets that abandon abused or abused women and children when the criminal is a woman, they are budgets to corrupt children in schools, promote pederasty and the sex of minors. All this is what promotes gender ideology and its ministry. [[Protests.-Applause.]] If I had a minimum of shame, a minimum of sense of honor, he will resign, but since you do not leave the table resign, the Spaniards have to pay in our meats, in our children and in our pockets all their traumas. You are the minister who has done the most harm to women, because fighting for women is not talking in Asturian, not dressing in purple, not giving us quotas as if we were incapable. To fight for children is not to leave them orphaned by a living father for the mere denunciation of a woman, nor to pervert them with sexual content, nor to abandon them when abused, prostituted or abducted by the mother. Fighting for children is not silence when a girl is murdered by her mother, nor defending that children can have consensual sex with whomever they want, as you have defended not once but twice. History will judge you, Minister, but in the meantime we tell you that you are incapacitated and delegitimized to be a minister and to exercise no political office. [[Applauds]] In addition, these €592 million are intended to incite hatred against anyone who disagrees with you, whether innocent men, judges or VOX. There you have stuck in your bones, your ministry of hatred is a danger to our fundamental rights. These are the budgets of totalitarianism, ruin and hatred. The most harmful because they break families, destroy lives, corrupt minors and end equality and freedom. Therefore, in VOX we are not going to leave a lie unchallenged, nor a gender law without repealing. We will not leave a woman or man or child unprotected, or a life of an unborn or unsaved. We're not leaving a family without helping...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u230	Your Honor, your time is up. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u231	I'm done. ...not a little chiringuite without disassembling...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u232	It's over. Thank you so much. [[Protests]] Thank you, your time is up. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] I give the floor to the Minister for Equality. Would you like to come up, Minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u233	No, I'll step in from the seat. Thank you very much, President. I would like to ask that the political violence that is currently taking place in the seat of popular sovereignty be incorporated into the Journal of Sessions so that it will not be erased, that after me none will come, that everyone will be able to remember the political violence and those who exercise it, and also that it will be possible to know that feminists and Democrats are more and that we will stop the feet of this band of fascists, with more rights. [[Protests.- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican, Euskal Herria Bildu, Plural, Más País-Equo and the members of the Government present, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u234	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, addressed to the seat of Mrs Toscano de Balbín, on the floor]] Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. The speaker has to take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u235	Thank you, President. Mrs Toscano, you are not worthy of being in this House, you are not. [[Protests.-Applause.]] It's a shame for this country. It is terrible to have to go up to this atrium after listening to what you have said in this rostrum. The Spanish and the Spanish don't deserve that. They're insulting this country. His machismo is terrible, terrible. [[Ms. Toscano de Balbín: Machismo, of what?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the question, to the budgets, which is what this is all about. The accounts of a Government are an exercise of ideological honesty. Budgets order priorities and do not be deceived, ladies and gentlemen, that order is ideological. Welcome to politics, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. These, like all budgets, are ideological budgets, what else are they going to be? We are, of course, prioritising public policies on equality between women and men. What is a priority for us for the right is an excess, and of course these budgets seem an excess to the People's Party. How is it not going to look if all the budgets of the governments of the People's Party have been blatantly disregarding equality policy? All the budgets of the governments of the People's Party have been blatantly disregarding the policy of equality. With this political background, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, what you have done and said here today is of an unbearable imposture, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, they're impostors. How dare they give us lessons on equality to socialists? You do not support parity, you do not support the right to abortion, you do not support the feminist movement, you do not support egalitarian laws, you only support the vice president of Castile and Leon and people like this Someone who calls the victims of sex violence who falsely denounces himself, but also disqualifies all of you. [[pointing out the seats of the Parliamentary Group VOX.-Applause]] [[Applauds]] This group, the Socialist Group, is a democratic endorsement of the advancement of women's rights. My colleagues, the feminists of the PSOE, have improved the lives of Spanish women from the towns and cities, from the municipalities, from the autonomous communities, from the Government of Spain, from the parliaments, and have done so despite you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, despite your opposition and despite your vote against. The general budgets of the State allocate a historic figure to Equality that is used urgently, because both the promotion of equality between women and men and the protection against gender-based violence are vital actions for this Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you have always despised the feminist movement and trivialised its demands, the history of feminism and its contribution to our democracy. Against machismo and inequality, PP has never been part of the solution, you are part of the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are political accounts, which we are here for, and the policy of the Socialists is to govern for the majority, for the working class.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u236	Your Honor, you must finish, please. [[Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group count the seconds that exceed the time of the intervention: twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty-three, one, thirty-two.]] - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u237	They are budgets with record figures on equality. [[Protests.-Mr. Majoral Perales: Hooligans, Ultras Sur!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u238	Your Honor, you must finish, please. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u239	You're left with this and you're not left with Mrs. Toscano? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u240	Wait a minute, Your Honor. [[Protests.-Mr.Major Perales: Enough, leave the minister alone! That's it!]] Mr. Mayoral, please. Ladies and gentlemen, one second. I think the tone has gone up long enough for us to try to lower it among all of us. He's gonna finish the interview. Time has been divided with another partner and, therefore, some time will be subtracted from the other partner. That's how it's going to be done. So, please, calm down. Let's calm down, finish the intervention, and then continue your partner. Finish, please, Mrs. Berja.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u241	Thank you, President. These are budgets with record figures for equality. These are budgets to give and create opportunities, to protect women and to narrow the gap. These are the budgets that this country needs. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some of whom have stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u243	Thank you, President. These budgets are intended to combat gender-based violence in all its forms, Mrs Toscano. [[Applauds]] More than half of the departures of the Ministry of Equality are aimed at preventing and combating this repugnant manifestation of patriarchal domination in a society that is - of course - resisting the renunciation of male privileges. In addition, we are faced with budgets that have gone through, that are permeated by equality policies, by policies that take account of women, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are more than half the population. Women are not a collective and we suffer violence in their different ways because we are women. It's called gender-based violence, and you have to name it, because if you don't name it, it's like it doesn't exist. [[Applauds]] It is therefore vital that budgets reflect this reality, that of the demographic weight of women, and that they take into account their specific needs. Only in this way will we be able to transform a reality, which has been demonstrated today, and which is still too far away from genuine equality between the two sexes. It's never enough. In the same way that we will not be able to be satisfied as long as there is only one sexist murder, while only one woman suffers violence because she is a woman in Spain. But they will not deny me that progress is substantial. Do not deny me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that it is significant that the government of Pedro Sánchez devotes seven times more than the average of its governments, the governments of the People's Party - seven times more, take note - to the promotion of equality and to combating and preventing gender-based violence. I will not be denied that the commitment to the renewal of the State Pact against Gender Violence counts, above all, with the impetus of this party, the Socialist Party, as it happened in 2017. And I will not be denied that the majority consensus on the need for its updating is, at least, good news, no matter how much there is a group that was not in its gestation and now, that could, neither - it is evident - points to this crucial moment. You know why? Because VOX doesn't want women, and this afternoon we had one more demonstration here. [[Applauds]] And you know what the worst is, ladies and gentlemen of the PP? That you govern without complexes with VOX. The Government as a whole remains committed to preventing and combating gender-based violence. Socialist government is synonymous with progress on equality. And it's not rhetorical, it's not milongas, it's budgets, it's the encrypted translation of a political will that's impregnated with feminism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u244	Thank you so much. We move on to the debate in section 31, Ministry of Consumer Affairs. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Consumer Affairs. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u245	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. It is a pleasure to be able to present here the programme and budget lines of the ministry, in this case, for the third consecutive year; a year in which the budget lines grow and, therefore, increase the resources and the possibility of carrying out a series of programmes that will meet the objectives that we have set at the beginning of this parliamentary term and in each of the present challenges. This is the increase in resources of 11.38 % in the Ministry's budgets; resources will be used to further strengthen and support the commitments recorded in the coalition agreement, with the credibility that we have in the Ministry of having already fulfilled 70 % of the commitments recorded and reflected in that coalition agreement. Therefore, in this ministry we are fulfilling practically day by day with the planned programming and, therefore, meeting the objectives that we set ourselves at the beginning of the legislature. I will sum it up in three blocks, which I believe represent very well the spirit of the policies that we are carrying out in the ministry and from the government, and which have to do, firstly, with healthy consumption, with food security, nutrition and ecological impact; secondly, with gambling and gambling, and thirdly, with the rights of consumers. The context you know perfectly well, ladies and gentlemen, is a context of crisis, in the sense that the invasion of the territory of Ukraine by Russia, combined with the effects produced after that invasion, plus what still remains, unfortunately, of pandemics and other phenomena, are added to the structural situation of a climate change that is altering economic relations, among other things, throughout the world. This is causing a series of deep problems throughout the global supply network, and obviously in the supply network, which reaches the last link in the chain that consumers are. The shortage and increase of fossil and mineral resources has been transferred to consumer goods and food in the form of scarcity and rising prices, especially losing the usual ones, the most humble families, the working families. It is important that we remember that, even if war were to be stopped immediately, and even if the flows of raw materials, minerals and energy sources such as fossil fuels were to be incorporated again, we would still have a very serious problem in this regard, which has to do with the time of the abundance of cheap energy being over. Therefore, we have to adapt our societies not only to the obvious phenomenon of climate change, but also to the reality that we are built societies, from infrastructure to probably the worldview we have in our heads, to the heat of fossil fuels and, therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to the dynamics of this market. This is what is called an ecological transition and it is what this Government is committed to, as it has been defended on many other occasions. We talk not only about climate change but about biodiversity loss, we talk about food systems. Therefore, we talk about safe food, we talk about how to ensure that our population can be fed within the limits of the planet. Therefore, the objective of this ministry from the beginning has been to broaden the horizons of action of public policies, incorporating this reflection and incorporating it into their public policies, as I will explain below. It is about putting the consumer as a protagonist and not simply as a mere recipient of the ecological transformation we need. That is why the first block has to do with the Spanish Food Safety and Nutrition Agency, which, as you know, is a fundamental pillar in everything about food. It is an agency that emerged at its origin with the aim of fulfilling everything related to food security, which was later extended by different governments of different signs also to the area of nutrition and, Currently, we are also incorporating that related to the ecological impact that our food has. Therefore, three aspects: food safety, nutrition and ecology or ecological impact, which are closely interrelated. The agency is increasing its budgets this year by 7.19 % for this year, which is in fact more than 21 % compared to the start of the legislature. This not only improves food security capacities but in the rest of the areas, as I have just described. We continue to deepen with the agency in the line of work on healthy and sustainable diets because, we remember, we have rates of overweight and obesity, particularly infantile, absolutely intolerable, of 40% among children between the ages of six and nine and for those for whom, as for the whole population, a better diet also means better health. We have the fortune that moving our diet towards a healthy diet is also making a more sustainable diet. In Spain we have the advantage of having a Mediterranean diet, which is unfortunately being lost to the benefit of the consumption of ultra-processed products and products that ultimately harm the individual health and the health of the planet. It is a matter of recovering these diets much more intense in products of plant origin than in products of animal origin, such as the Mediterranean diet, as well as recovering models of agro-food production that favor the consumption of proximity and ways of consuming that keep us away from the possibility of reproducing new zoonotic diseases, such as COVID. With this budget, AESAN reinforces this line of work, as it also reinforces its work of surveillance, control, strengthening, for example, the National Food Centre and the Biotoxin Reference Laboratory Marinas de Vigo, which I had the opportunity to visit a very short time ago to check how the use of technology and modernization is fundamental to ensuring food security. New campaigns to promote the consumption of healthy and sustainable diets, along the lines outlined above, will also be promoted with this budget. We will work, as we are doing, with the actual decree of school menus and menus in senior residences and, of course, promote proximity consumption and local consumption, in line with what we have been doing in the last three years. In addition, we will have in these budgets the study ALADINO 2023, from which we obtained the figure that I have just given of obesity index and overweight. For the next year, the effects of the pandemic on eating habits and, in particular, its effects on health will be incorporated for the first time, most likely very asymmetrically in social classes. The second block refers to gambling and gambling. At the moment - probably still playing the game of the Spanish selection - is in progress the world wide. This is a very sensitive time for those people who are suffering the consequences of compulsive gambling, who have had some kind of gambling disorder. These are moments of great sensitivity, when sporting competitions are produced in a fairly important way, all kinds of bets, as has happened in previous sporting competitions phenomena, for example, the last Euro Cup. Fortune, which is not the result of chance but in this case of the work of this Government, has already brought into force in our country the real decree of advertising gambling and gambling, which restricts advertising and therefore makes it not in our country at this time that invasion and bombardment of advertising gambling and gambling that was typical of the times, such as the current one, of sports competitions. In fact, Spain is the only country in the European Union where this regulation is now in place and it is the only country that has a certain degree of tranquillity at the moment, unlike the other countries that are currently experiencing an important and sensitive situation with regard to the invasion of advertising and the vulnerability of a part of the population particularly sensitive to this matter. The Directorate-General for Gambling will strengthen with these budgets the inspection capacity and will facilitate mechanisms with the interconnection of self-prohibited registers which, as you know - because we have explained it on previous occasions - are the tools used by the autonomous communities so that those who consider that they do not have sufficient will, or who want to guarantee a self-prohibition in some gambling or gambling hall, can register in that register of the autonomous community to have prohibited and vetoed access to those premises. However, the lack of interconnection makes it possible to move at times of enormous sensitivity to another autonomous community where such a register is invalid. What we are doing with this budget is equipping us with the possibility of interconnecting those registers and, therefore, increasing the protection of people in vulnerable situations; a budget which also serves to intensify the fight against fraud in sports betting and illegal gambling, and which will also allow us to deepen - we hope - the legislative proposal of the law against so-called booty boxes, which are like gambling within the video games themselves. We also take advantage of the possibility of reorienting the fee for administrative gambling management paid by operators through their gross operating income, which results in an improvement in the protection of consumers of this type of activity and which allows us to draw up certain programme lines in particular; for example, a mechanism for the detection of risk-behavioural players, which has been used with operators, to which more than 800,000 euros have been allocated; grants which have a fairly obvious purpose, for example, subsidies to reference hospitals of the National Health System for the treatment of those addictive behaviors or behaviors, with 100,000 euros, or grants to associations and federations of associations of exjuices and rehabilitated players to obtain data that allow the development of the algorithm of problematic behavior of the game, also with more than 100,000 euros. It is also a matter of repeating with this budget the promotion of research projects focusing on the effects and risks of gambling activities, as well as deepening awareness and prevention campaigns, focusing on people in vulnerable situations in the face of possible risk behaviours. Let us remember that we have managed to close the vector by which people enter into this compulsive activity involving risks, despite being a deep and totally legal activity. We have achieved this with advertising regulation, but there are still a large number of players, there is still a face-to-face game and there is still a problem that we have to continue to solve. Finally, in the third block, we have everything to say about the protection of consumers. In this case, we see an increase of 17% more, therefore 27% since the start of the legislature. This percentage is high, above all, thanks to the fact that we have finally incorporated in the capacity of the State the creation and development of sanctioning powers in the face of major fraud and abuse of consumption. We have claimed this and it has been a long process, because, as you know, there was no such capacity, and therefore many behaviours of large companies linked to fraud and abuse were, as is popularly said, rositas because there was no regulation or sanctioning capacity on the part of the State and what existed in the autonomous communities was insufficient and in some cases failed to meet its objectives. Thanks to that royal decree that we were able to launch, which was validated in this House, we already have that sanctioning capacity, which now, in this budget, is equipped with the personnel necessary to put an end to an obvious democratic deficit, and that is that when a large company commits an abuse or fraud it must be penalized. This, even if it was common sense, did not happen in our country until now. We will also invest in the digitisation and renewal of the equipment and facilities and laboratories of the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs, such as the Centre for Research and Quality Control; we will promote and strengthen the Internet Consumer Observatory, the European Consumer Centre, and a number of other work lines that will be strengthened by this budget, as well as promote regulatory development on universal accessibility in labelling. Just as in the two previous aspects or blocks in which I have structured this intervention, we will continue to promote awareness, awareness and information of consumers so that they know their rights. It's over now. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to summarise very briefly some of the central issues. Of course, my presentation does not exhaust all the lines of work collected in the ministry, let alone in these budgets, but they are lines of work of the Government of Spain in sensitive and strategic matters. It's about food security, what we all eat to feed ourselves, to get energy in the day-to-day. This is public, animal and human health, within the One Health paradigm of the World Health Organization, assumed by the Spanish Food and Nutrition Security Agency and the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. We talk about the protection of children in all matters of consumption, such as the consumption of toys; we talk about the protection of the most vulnerable; we talk about the improvement of eating habits, which are improvements in our health and in the health of the planet; we talk about the support to those who fight and fight the ludopathy and other disorders of the game and the causes that generate it; we talk about the defense against the frauds and abuses of large companies or the awareness and action against the climate crisis and the eco-social crisis that our society is going through and that is therefore a fundamental pillar of the activity of this ministry. I therefore ask you, as in the other sections, to vote in favour so that these budgets can continue to develop an absolutely necessary line of work for the ministry, for the Government of Spain and for the democratic society we represent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. For the People's Parliamentary Group, in defence of its amendments, I have the floor, Mrs Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garzón, I do not see you seriously or worried. You're happy with these budgets, aren't you? [[The Minister of Consumer Affairs, Garzón Espinosa, makes affirmative gestures]] I'm not surprised. And you know why? Because these budgets are going to allow you, Mr Sánchez, the rest of the 22 ministers and the 1500 consultants and high-ranking government officials to live better than anyone else, better than the 47 million Spanish consumers, who are going through it fatally. [[Applauds]] And above all, Mr Garzón, you will allow, and apart from your ministry, to continue enjoying that premium building on Calle Alcalá, 27, of 1000 square meters and whose rent costs us 252,000 euros to all Spaniards, because we pay all Spaniards. [[shows a photograph]] You know that we have tabled an amendment to eliminate your ministry, because we consider that it is a useless ministry that does not respond to the needs of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] His ministry is a placement agency; he has placed all his friends from Malaga; there is no more unemployment on the United Left in Malaga. [[Laughter]] But it is that the creation of his ministry has cost us and will cost us the Spanish 200 million euros in excess. Do you know how many primary care doctors could be hired with 200 million? Well, 2500 primary care doctors could be hired. [[Applauds]] But not content with this, your ministry, and especially you, has dedicated itself to putting strategic sectors such as tourism, meat, toys, sweets, drinks, restaurants, the food industry, bars, and now also eggs. Hey, the egg is the best and cheapest protein, and you can consume up to two eggs a day. Well, you've campaigned to keep eggs from being consumed. Unbelievable when families can't get to the end of the month! It is surprising, Minister, to see the capacity that you, your entire Government, have had to adapt to the luxury offices, armchairs, carpets, secretaries, advisors, official cars and Falcon, while consumers are no longer left with holes to tighten their belts, because we are going through it every day worse. [[Rumors]] You guys live better, don't you? The ones I told you, the 1500 plus the ministers. For I have made an estimate of what life costs a year right now to a family of two members. [[Show a chart]] In 2018, with 18,900 euros families could live; now they will need 24,400. Why? Because the food before was 5000 euros, now it is 6500 euros; the light was 600 euros, now it is 1000 euros; the gas was 300 euros, now it is 400 euros; the fuels were 1000 euros, now it is 2000, and the mortgage, 12,000 and now, 14 500 euros. And do you think that families will be able to raise an extra €55 billion so that they can live the same way they did? You know that the consumer price index, which is the best indicator of what is going on, has collapsed. In 2018, when I was ruling the People's Party, we were at 93% and now we are at 54; it's almost half gone. Inflation is in the clouds. Look, this is what happens to the lady and the gentleman when they go shopping, that every day they have to put more euros in order to be able to buy the same basket, because the prices have gone off. [[shows a graph]] And I tell you one thing: do you think it is welcome, Minister, that a sick person who needs an FFP2 mask, out of every 100 euros spent on masks, should give 21 to Mr Sánchez's government to continue to waste and waste money? It is a shame, Minister; it is a shame. [[Applauds]] Have you heard, Minister, what the Foessa report says about poverty in Spain at the moment? The risk of poverty has increased by 2 million since you are in the government; you, who were going to protect everyone. But do you know that there are currently 500,000 families who have not been able to take their children to school dining because they have no resources? Do you know that at this time most consumer families in our country have stopped consuming all the products they consumed, that they have lowered the quality of the products they can buy and that, especially, there are families that cannot buy glasses for their children or hearing aids for grandparents? That is the situation that Spanish families are experiencing, while you continue to waste and waste the money. What about your measurements? The electric social bonus is paid by consumers; the Iberian exception is paid by consumers. But it's the trick of stuttering! And you know what? People have had to change. For example, a lady told me the other day: I'm exhausted. I say, hey, if it's Sunday. It says: yes, it is that I dedicate it on Sunday to washing and ironing, because it is when the light is cheaper. But a friend told me the other day: in my house, when we go from the living room to the toilet or from the living room to the kitchen we no longer light the light because as we know the hallway... And he says, one day I'm going to break the chrism for not spending the light. But it's just that there are more problems, it's just that there are people who are asking themselves right now if in the community this year, in winter, they have hot water or heating, because if they have both things they'll only get to them by the middle of the year. We sincerely believe that we must continue to work in the defence of consumers. That is why our President, President Feijóo, made a very clear proposal: we must lower the VAT on basic products from the shopping basket to 4% and we must maintain the VAT of 5% - which, by the way, has helped them to lower inflation - for light and gas all winter, because otherwise it will be impossible for families to reach the end of the month. [[Applauds]] And I tell you one thing: these general state budgets are the budgets of the most toxic president of democracy, which what he has done is - a scandal - change votes for sedition and embezzlement. They are the budgets of lying - no one believes them - and they also raise taxes to consumers. Do you know the only thing that comforts all consumers right now, Minister? That there's no harm that a hundred years lasts. The change is unstoppable with Feijoo. And do you know the news that most Spanish citizens are eagerly awaiting? That you, Garzón, are out of the government and Mr. Sanchez is leaving the Moncloa. Good afternoon and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u248	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Bueno Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u249	An Irene hug, partner. [[Applauds]] I believe that we should reflect, especially between the right-wing bench, on this race to see who is saying the greatest madness, who is making the most radical attack on the government, who is saying the biggest nonsense to a minister or a minister of this government, because that madness does not lead anywhere or, at least, leads to no good place, to this Chamber or to this democracy. This I think should come out of the mouth of many right-wing spokespersons here today, but they're not going to do it, because what I've seen here in the short time I've been here has been really embarrassing. Minister, I am going with what is not being done here, which is to talk about the general budgets of 2023 for the Ministry of Consumer Affairs in line with what you have proposed, budgets that are on the same path as the general budgets of the State for 2023, expansive budgets that bet on social policies and that, in the case of this ministry, go in three fundamental lines. The first is to consolidate the rights of consumers in the areas of food, non-food and also online gambling. Secondly, to avoid consumer fraud. You talked about it, I'm not going to stop. Thirdly, we must ensure the high level of food protection and food security that we have in our country. They are accounts that represent a continuity of the policies guaranteed in this area and that seek to maintain and strengthen the work carried out by the ministry in recent years, giving institutional response to several objectives. The first of these, bet on a consumption model according to the requirements of the 2030 Agenda. Secondly, they place the consumer at the centre, as a protagonist, and not only as a mere recipient of that ecological and digital transformation to which our economy is directed, assuming the capacity of impact that consumers have as political actors, with political capacity, since consumer relations also affect the socio-economic configuration of our society. And there are two issues that I would like to highlight from these accounts. The first is funding research projects for the prevention of gambling disorders and the second is funding to strengthen the activities of food and consumer surveillance laboratories, especially those related to food safety. All this, including the increase in the budget of this ministry, guarantees the degree of commitment of this coalition government to the protection and promotion of sustainable and responsible consumption policies in Spain, and shows this, as the minister has explained here, is the high degree of compliance of the coalition government program by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which speaks well of the work that has been carried out, although, as we will see now, work remains to be done. But we're on the right track. In this regard, I would like to point out the normative impetus to several of these issues, on which they are working in the ministry and which are being included in the accounts for this 2023. The first, in terms of universal accessibility, has decreed, also in the line of work on food and drink advertising for children - something that we think is fundamental to protecting children from the consumer avalanche and advertising in which they are immersed - the basic criteria of healthy and sustainable food for school eaters, which is also very important to give good health to our children. We have also talked many times here about the loot boxes, the booty boxes, which have proliferated in recent years, especially in the context of video games, and whose regulation is fundamental if we want to advance in the prevention and brake of problem gambling and associated behaviors that are enormously harmful, in particular, to our adolescents. We also welcome the work being done on the Customer Service Act, which aims to improve consumer rights by establishing an obligation to have an effective system for providing information, handling and resolving complaints and complaints agilely in several sectors: gas and electricity supply services, transport services, etc. To govern is precisely that: to see what has been done and what is being worked on; it is to legislate for people to solve their problems or, even better, to legislate to prevent those problems. And with this we find that there are still political forces opposing this ministry, opposing the tasks being carried out by the ministry, and one wonders what model they propose when they ask for the elimination of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs or when they go against the policies of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. The deregulation? Unprotection of consumers? The freedom to eat bad or worse at the expense of our health? And the result is that there is no alternative model beyond what we have seen here today: he is not by no means, the competition to see who is the most radical and who attacks the government most strongly and ultimately to overthrow this social and progress government at all costs. And it is a shame that, instead of embracing the policies of all the countries of the European Union, WHO, etc., here we are working on another series of issues, talking about rents and talking about official cars, as if official cars, rents and carpets had been brought by this government of progress. So nothing, Minister, I want to thank you for your work. There is obviously work to be done, it has the support of our group and, on that path, it is going to find us on the road to progress on consumer rights. Greetings. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Well. Mr Fernández Ríos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Garzón, another debate on budgets. Enjoy it yourself, because, thank God, this is definitely going to be the last one you're going to live in where you are. [[Applauds]] You know we've been saying for a long time that you're the minister of nothingness, because ever since you were put in this government with a shoemaker - you and the little boy with practically no skills that he runs - we were clear that it wasn't going to do any good. Because look, at that engineer, at that little ministry that he's been set up to have him parked there - I don't know whose idea it was - they named him the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, and it's also bad luck that, right now, it's going to be consumption one of the reasons they're going to end up with this government. Because to you, as a good communist elite who is, I know that the problems of the middle class, of the working class, affect little, but I will try to outline in a few seconds the horror film that many consumers in this country are living because they will surely have to choose this winter between being able to eat or being able to turn on the heating. [[Applauds]] Look, the price of gas has risen by 341% this year and, according to the International Energy Agency, it is possible that what remains of winter can even be doubled. The electricity bill has risen almost twice as much in the year 2022 as in the rest of the European Union, and we are paying right now one of the most expensive electricity prices in the countries in our environment. The CPI of the shopping basket - and I'm not talking about luxury products - has already risen by an average of 15% this year, the largest increase in the last thirty-four years and which will entail an additional cost of about 850 euros for each family. And in the face of this disaster, Minister, what have you done as Minister of Consumer Affairs this year? For he has launched a campaign to teach the Spaniards to keep the eggs in the fridge and has advised us without any scientific criteria that we only consume four a week; he has called the parents to a toy strike to fight against sexist advertising; he has recommended using second-hand clothes; let us not change the mobile to save the planet; he has promoted sharing appliances with the neighbors to pollute less, and he has even dared to tell us that those who criticized his campaign against meat what we had was a testosterone problem. Mr Garzón, in this cabinet of ministers created with altars by the autocrat, you have usually won the title of inept major of the Government of Spain, and look at that there were candidates. [[Applauds]] And it is that, really, it has become a classic - in a classic even in bars - waiting for you to open your mouth to see which sector or which collective sinks. And since you hold this honorary title of Minister of Consumer Affairs - without a portfolio - you could have expected at least that you would have made some gesture, some initiative, to hear some dissenting voice in the Council of Ministers, something to earn the salary and that it would serve as a consolation to alleviate the drama of so many Spanish consumers and families, but the truth is that you are here for what is and is worth, which is basically, like other ministries, to spend on absurdities the money of all Spanish people; by the way, this year, with these budgets of ruin, 12% more than last year, about 7 million more euros. But you know what? Do you know anything curious? Do you want me to tell you where that 80% more is going to stop, those 7 million euros more than you will have, Mr Garzón, and your entourage in the 2023 financial year? Well, yeah, let's think it over and you'll be right. That 80 per cent more budget is going to go to staff costs. Of course, at staff costs, because the chollo is over and you have to place most of your friends, that the desert crossing is going to be very long. [[Applauds]] Mr Garzón, the only thing you and your ministry have achieved during this parliamentary term has been to become a spurt, of the worst of politics, and a joke of very bad taste for most Spaniards, a joke that, by the way, has come very dear to us during these years. And with his incompetence, his fanaticism and, above all, his verbal incontinence, he has had the ability to put on a war footing each and every one of the basic pillars of our economy: agriculture, livestock, industry, trade, tourism. Mr. Garzón, you haven't let yourself be a puppet, I'm telling you. Because, Socialists, to see if you know once and for all that this is what is happening, this is the clear example of what is happening when, once again, we put personal interests, partisan interests before the interests of the Spaniards, and in this case, in your particular case, Mr Garzón, as unfortunately in so many others that we have had to witness during the debate we are having these days, we see with amazement that it is the price of toll, of quota; to agree at any price. Thus, we invent a little chiringuite and put in front of a radical incompetent and eager for protagonism. [[Applauds]] But don't worry that, as I've already mentioned on some occasion, in the end everything passes bill, and this is a reason to add to a long list for which the Spaniards are going to send you and your partners, all your partners, directly to your home. That is so, as soon as you have enough decency to give them the floor, to let them decide and convene elections that will allow us to start building everything that you have destroyed during these years. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u252	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u253	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, Mr Garzón, Minister of Consumer Affairs of the Government of Spain. Well, minister, I hope you have made it clear that, according to the People's Party class, if the ministers are from the United Left, they cannot have an official car nor can the seat of their ministry be paid with public money, because, of course, those on the right are more than paying their seats with black money. [[Applauds]] And, Mrs. Riolobos, you speak of a toxic president. Do you know where it comes from toxic? He's intoxicating. Come on, what you're doing one day yes and another day too, lying about these budgets, these laws and this government, that's what you're doing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen of the right, the one who is mistaken and lazy in the Senate and the right who is cowardly with the powerful, you speak of sedition and ETA, and you do so because your only objective is to cover up the real betrayal of the Spanish and Spanish wings, which is to vote against budgets that put in place measures to protect the citizens of this country. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] Because we are faced with good budgets - yes, sir - and they are because in politics, as in life, heart is needed, and these budgets show with facts and data that heart is left to them. Therefore, to the citizens who are listening to us I want to tell you that we know that in the previous economic crisis of 2012 there were budgets, those of Montoro, and a government, that of the People's Party, that misbehaved with all of us; well, with almost all of us. It was a government that deceived us, which promised to lower VAT, as they do now, but raised it to 21 per cent in all products, without discrimination; a government that observed imperishable how thousands of families were evicted and did nothing; a government that climbed the IRPF to three times in all its sections, without discrimination; a government that reduced scholarships, increased university fees, eliminated public health places, teachers and police; a government that reduced the layoffs of those who were out of work, who got mixed up with our pensioners, condemning them to a 0.25 per cent increase in their pensions, when many of them had to take back their children, who had lost their jobs. In addition, a pharmaceutical copayo was invented, which made many of them have to choose between buying medicines or buying food. It was a government that told all the Spaniards that we had to tighten our belts, but, as they told us that, they rescued the bank and made tax amnesties for their friends. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the right, is your mirror, a broken mirror, that of the People's Party, in which, believe me, no socialist would like to look at us. They say that those who forget are doomed to repeat the same mistakes all the time. The Socialists know that much has happened in these years: the impact of the pandemic first, the energy crisis, the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which have led to a rise in prices, and for that very reason the Socialist Group calls on the Spanish and Spanish people not to forget. Do not forget the budgets that the People's Party makes when it governs or the budgets that the Government of Pedro Sánchez makes because with this government we are going to pay the reduction of the 20 cents of fuel, the increase of pensions as life goes up, the minimum income vital and its increase to 15%, we are going to pay the reduction of VAT on gas, pellets, wood, the increase of the thermal social bonus, the measures announced yesterday by the President to reduce the mortgages; we are going to pay the gratuitousness of public transport, a reduction of 80% of taxes on the bill of light; we are going to pay the interprofessional minimum wage, which with this government has risen by 30%, the increase of student grants and rent subsidies, measures by and for families, which you talk a lot but harm by voting against these budgets; they then hurt them and they hurt them now because they have made it clear - this is spending. Obviously, we spend in the family, while you spend in the bank. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, there is no heart in your criticism or truth in your words or rigour in your data, because we do all this by creating jobs, containing inflation and with economic growth forecasts made by all the official bodies. And the budgets of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs for 2023 reinforce the commitment of the Government of Spain to the defence of consumers, increasing the budget by 11%. And what do you bring? They bring a lot with very little. Investments in publications and institutional campaigns to train and inform consumers are maintained, resources are increased in consumer protection, food security and game regulation. They are for important issues, not for whims or superfluous issues or for a vice-presidentship without functions in Castile and León. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u254	Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u255	Staff are being strengthened for the creation of a branch-general in the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs to monitor, inspect and sanction massive fraud, as in the case of Volkswagen, which was a chaos in the management of the People's Party during the years. The resources of the Spanish Food Safety Agency for food security and child nutrition policies are also being increased to combat child obesity, as according to WHO, Spain is the third country in Europe with more cases, an important issue, which the People's Party does not like, because its star measure in child nutrition is that pizza and glue are served in schools, as well as it is against the regulation of advertising on food and drink aimed at the child's public, because its business is at all costs, even at the expense of the health of our children. The budget for the General Management of the Game is increased by 9% to avoid fraud and misleading advertising and to fight against ludopathy, contrary to what their autonomous governments in Andalusia, Murcia or Madrid do, which lower rates to bingos, casinos and slots; as I say, business at all costs and at the expense of people's health. The appeals of the arbitration boards are maintained. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, for and for the citizens of this country, because, ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, this is a budget for which my Socialist Group calls for support with a single objective: to improve the lives of young people, workers, entrepreneurs, self-employed people, public employees, pensioners, men and women, unemployed people and families, because this is not the budget of the Government of Spain, this is the budget of each and every one of them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. We move on to the debate in sections 32, Ministry of Social Security and Migration Inclusion, and 60, Social Security. For the presentation of the sections, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government. I'll ask for some silence first, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u257	President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, allow me to express my absolute solidarity with my Government colleague, Irene Montero, who has received some absolutely unusual disqualifications a few minutes ago in this House. [[Applauds]] I compare with you to report on the general state budgets of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration for 2023. These are very relevant budgets not only because they show progress in our reform commitments in the various areas of the ministry, but also because they respond to a particularly complex international context. Our main objective is to mitigate the effects of the inflationary shock resulting from the conflict in Ukraine, limiting its impact on citizenship and, above all, giving certainty to the vulnerable. And in this context, there are three main elements on which our budget revolves. Firstly, with these budgets in 2023, one in five people in this country will retain their purchasing power as a result of the revaluation of pensions and of the minimum living income, and at the same time we will move towards the budgetary balance of Social Security, so that the social protection and sustainability of the system are simultaneously strengthened with accounts whose solidity is supported by the continued increase in employment. Secondly, we want to consolidate the inclusion policies that will enable progress in poverty reduction, and the inclusion policies that were launched in June 2020 with the approval in this House of minimum living income accompany and reinforce this benefit in order to ensure that the most vulnerable can be integrated into our society. Thirdly, we will continue to improve the refugee reception model, enhancing regular, orderly and secure migration, as well as the care of displaced persons from the conflict in Ukraine. And along with these three elements, there are two factors that are cross-cutting in our action: the modernization of the ministry, linked to the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan, and the strengthening of human capital, especially diminished after ten years of continuous reduction of Social Security personnel, while, on the other hand, it has grown its role in protecting citizens in order to respond to the very adverse situations that we are having to face in this legislature. Of the three areas of management entrusted to this ministry, I begin with Social Security, whose departure is extraordinarily relevant. In quantitative terms, it represents one third of the budget of all public administrations, and qualitatively constitutes a central pillar of our welfare state. In this area, we have already developed most of the recommendations that you, ladies and gentlemen, made to us before the Committee on the Toledo Pact - seventeen of twenty-one recommendations - and we have dealt with them as you have instructed us, with an intense social dialogue and by building broad agreements and consensuses, which are the best guarantee of long-term policy stability. In addition, I remind you that many of these recommendations are milestones in the recovery plan in its component 30, referring to the sustainability of pensions, which we have been scrupulously fulfilling, according to the demanding timetable that we have set ourselves. The implementation of the amendment introduced by the Law on Guaranteeing the Purchasing Power of Pensions and other measures to strengthen the financial and social sustainability of our public pension system is undoubtedly the most important aspect of this budget. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u258	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u259	We comply with the right to the revaluation of pensions under the CPI, which we estimate will increase for all pensions by around 8.5% in 2023. Another central element of the budget has to do with the new system of contributions for net returns for self-employed workers resulting from the important agreement in the framework of the social dialogue and with the main self-employed organisations which was validated by this House at the end of August. The new system of autonomous contributions is more flexible and equitable and will provide greater protection for this group. Its implementation will be done gradually, with a temporary deficiency that will allow its revision within three years and with a final horizon in 2032, when we will already have the system fully deployed. We are responding to a historical demand from the self-governing collective, which had previously been attempted with different governments, without any result. On the other hand, the amendment of four articles of the General Law on Social Security and the ongoing process of changing a regulation of 1992 will enable the real estate assets of Social Security to be managed more flexibly, providing with due guarantees and in certain circumstances that their unused assets can be used by other public administrations to fulfil their social objectives. And continuing with the implementation of the reforms already adopted, I would like to point out that, in compliance with the first recommendation of the Toledo Pact on so-called inappropriate expenditure, these budgets incorporate a contribution from the State that is close to EUR 20 billion. It is important to recall at this point the development of the Social Security Reserve Fund. If non-contributory expenditure by the General Administration of the State had been financed separately since 2011, the significant reduction in the Reserve Fund deposits, which had virtually exhausted it, would have been avoided. In these budgets of 2023 we recover the contributions to the Reserve Fund, which we promote with about 28 billion euros, linked mainly to the new mechanism of intergenerational equity. This opens a path of successive allocations to the Reserve Fund for the coming years. It is therefore, and I would like to highlight, the first time since 2011 that the provision of the Reserve Fund has been increased. This is a real turning point, which will allow us to be in the best position to cope with the transitional situation that will entail the retirement of a particularly large generation. In addition, I would particularly like to highlight the dynamism of social security income. Growth is already extraordinary in 2022. Social contributions reach eleven points of GDP, one and a half points more than the average between 2013 and 2019. This good behaviour will be maintained in 2023, with a growth forecast of 8.4%. We have said this many times: The best guarantee of the sustainability of our social protection system is to have a dynamic and resilient labour market that boosts quality employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the social security data in terms of membership and collection are indisputable in this sense month after month. Despite the uncertainties of the macroeconomic context, our labour market is undergoing an extraordinary transformation and contributes to the structural strengthening of social security income. On these dates we can already estimate that the average growth of social security membership, employment at the end of the day, will be in 2022 at around 4%, an exceptional growth with any historical reference we take. Since the recovery of the pre-pandemic level in August 2021, more than 825 000 jobs have been created, of which some 500 000 will be created this year. These are extraordinary figures, which reflect a much greater dynamism in employment than in comparable countries in our European environment, some of which have not even reached the level of pre-pandemic employment. The improvement in the quality of employment, as a result mainly of labour reform, is also evident in the growth of two-digit occupations in high productivity sectors, as well as in the greater stability of employment. It highlights the significant reduction in temporality, especially among children under the age of 30. Today, three out of four young people have an indefinite job, compared to one out of two before the labour reform. Ladies and gentlemen, this good development in social contributions is going to help make the social security deficit half the GDP by 2023, which means maintaining the level of 2022 after making all the revaluation of pensions. This result is very positive, but it is even more positive if we take into account that in 2017 the social security deficit was 1.6% of GDP, three times higher. We all have to congratulate ourselves on this outcome. It consolidates a clear path towards budgetary balance despite the enormous difficulties of the situation and the effort we are going to make to improve the package of benefits. The budget therefore reflects the solidity of the Social Security system, a solidity that will be reinforced by the full deployment of the measures already taken and those that we are going to put in place for the implementation of the mandates of the Toledo Pact and the government's commitments to the European authorities. We therefore approach the future with confidence, giving certainty to our present and future pensioners and strengthening the social and financial sustainability of the system. Secondly, I would like to refer to the budget for inclusion policies for 2023, a budget that consolidates the objective of reducing social inequalities and poverty and ensuring income coverage for the most vulnerable. This completes the development of inclusion policies, as we progressed when in June 2020 we approved minimum living income in this House. At the beginning of this legislature, Spain was a country with a very unequal distribution of income among households. Before the arrival of the minimum income, the minimum income benefits, which had been developed in a heterogeneous manner in the autonomous communities, offered an overall result that generated inequities. The introduction of minimum living income has corrected this situation by establishing a country-wide protection floor to protect the most vulnerable. Moreover, the economic situation in recent years has shown that there is no sustainable growth in the medium term if growth is not inclusive. Economic efficiency and social equity must be complementary, and they are. The design of vital minimum income was never a benefit, but a set of policies that allow us to have a last social protection network, contributing to the goal of equity for which we all work. In just two and a half years, minimum living income has helped more than 530,000 households and one and a half million beneficiaries. Of these, one in five are single-parent households, two in three beneficiaries are women and more than 40% are children, thanks to the addition of the child support supplement, which already reaches 285 000 families, who receive between 50 and 100 euros per child. In parallel, we know that these benefits have potential beneficiaries who do not request it, and we are making every effort to narrow this coverage gap. Therefore, the ministry is focusing all efforts on maximizing protection thresholds, and various measures have been deployed to this end. For the first time in Spain, the municipalities are already certifying situations of social vulnerability, in addition to having eleven mediators through non-governmental organizations, which also allow us to obtain such certification. We have made direct contact from the ministry with 90,000 potential beneficiaries via SMS messages and we are enabling a mobile office for information and processing of minimum vital income, the minimum vital income bus to proactively direct all these people. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the provision, the minimum living income, is not an end in itself, but a tool to facilitate the transition of individuals from social exclusion, which imposes the absence of resources on them to a situation in which they can develop fully in society. That is why we are working on the development of thirty-four inclusion routes throughout the national territory, financed with 212 million of the recovery plan and with a methodology that can measure the impact of social policy. We are working with the autonomous communities, municipalities and entities of the third sector, in addition to the advice of external experts and evaluators. We will begin to see results in 2023 and, according to them, we will be able to scale up the best measures, which will be most effective in promoting social and labour inclusion policies among the most vulnerable people. In this regard, we have recently approved the employment incentive, which will come into force next year, and to those who find employment or increase the number of hours worked, if they already have, will allow them to have more disposable income than if they did not, encouraging them to participate in the labour market to help them get out of the poverty situation. We are developing the social inclusion label, with which we involve companies in the inclusion of recipients of minimum living income publicly recognizing their dedication. In conclusion, minimum living income is a substantial part of the social agenda of the Government of Spain to reduce poverty and enhance social inclusion, a policy that represents a great step forward in the welfare state of our country. Finally, I will refer to migration policy. The 2023 budget will allow us to continue to develop a set of policies that are substantially transforming our migration model for the first time in many years. The first axis of the change is the new model of the reception system to provide it with stability and efficiency and will enter into force in 2023. In this reception system, in which there are now more than 35 000 people, the current model of grants to collaborating entities will be replaced by a concert model procedure open to all those who wish to participate, in which stability and long-term vision prevails through four-year planning. Thus, we will be able to have defined and expandable reception capacities and facilitate closer collaboration between the Administration and the entities, in a framework of higher legal certainty through continuous exchange of information and greater evaluation and transparency. To this end, 215 million of the recovery plan are being invested to finance the creation of a real public ownership network, which will allow to move from 400 places in 2019 to 6100 places in 2024. Unlike what we find when we arrive at the Government, this investment will enable us to have a reception system to deal with the migration crises that will enable us to address the migration reality of our country. In parallel, we will continue to welcome and assist the 150 000 Ukrainians who have so far applied for temporary protection in our country. For this we have opened in record time four reception centres, the CREADE, and we are financing all expenditure on education, health and social services, developing a system of aid and addressing the social and labour integration of the displaced, so that there are already more than 13 000 Ukrainians working in Spain. The second axis of the change in the migration model is the deployment of the reform of the regulations of the Aliens Act to ensure orderly, regular and safe migration, reducing irregular migration routes, which entail high social, human, economic and management costs, dignified the lives of migrants and ensuring that migration policy complements other policies to meet the social and economic needs of our country. That is why we are adopting the best practices of the countries in our environment and supporting national activity and employment. We know that in order for this reform to be possible, an effort is needed in the model of foreign management, reducing administrative burdens and simplifying procedures. To this end we will be fully developing a new management unit, the UTEX, in 2023, which through centralized management will make this transformation possible. Finally, I would like to stress that, together with the change in the Spanish migration model that we are carrying out, a sustainable European model is needed, which will enable us to face crises such as that of Ukraine and respond to competition for talent at international level. During the year 2023 the Spanish Presidency in the European Union will be an opportunity to continue working towards a much needed European migration and asylum pact. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, the budget for 2023 in this ministry is aimed at strengthening our welfare model by maintaining the purchasing power, especially of the most vulnerable, by providing security and certainty to pensioners present and future by eliminating uncertainties and reinforcing the sustainability of the pension system, by completing social inclusion policies, which make sustainable growth possible, and by undertaking a definitive reform of the migration model, by stabilising the host model, by deigning migrants and moving towards regular, orderly and secure migration. They are all structural reforms that we are addressing with determination and ambition, equipping them with the elements that make them sustainable policies over time, responding to commitments made at the beginning of the legislature and strengthening our coexistence model and our welfare state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u261	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the chapter on this agenda item is on the Ministry of Social Security, Migration and Inclusion. The truth is that I, first of all, have to leave evidence of the good relationship that has always existed with the ministry in what has been the different bills that have been processed. Therefore, you know that in much of what corresponds to the general budgets of the State we have already reached an agreement to give them support on the basis of having achieved a whole series of benefits for Catalonia and for Catalans; we believe that they are strategic and good. Under the heading which now falls to us, it is true that the budgets are developing what we had previously agreed on, such as the question of the improper expenditure which you pointed out, the question of whether pensions should be raised with the CPI, the question of the new special scheme for self-employed persons - the contribution of self-employed persons - or the question of minimum living income. All are laws in which you know you have the support of PeCAT to develop this part, which for us is also fundamental, of the welfare state. So, beyond the overall agreement that we have reached on this issue, the fact is that what the budget is developing, laws that we have supported, is relatively logical that we also agree on these issues. I wanted to point out some of the amendments that we have negotiated and that I believe are of relevant interest. A first, in relation to bonuses for self-employed street vendors, was a matter which disappeared from the general budget for 2023 but which, on the other hand, was reflected in previous budgets. Through an amendment by the PeCAT, this improved scheme has again been introduced for self-employed people engaged in street selling. He also knows that there is an agreement on the celebration of the America Cup to be held in Barcelona in 2024, and that within the scope of this America Cup agreement there are also bonuses in recruitment for those organizing entities and those participating entities. With which, no doubt, these are some milestones that I have a duty to highlight on this point of agreement, of the good agreement that has been made in this section. We still have challenges to face, Minister. We had some amendments relating to rural workers and reducing coefficients to agricultural workers and to the contribution gaps, to the security forces, to the Mossos d'Esquadra and to early retirement, which I also know is an issue that can be worked on and that, like the previous ones, I understand that we can continue to work on the so-called second part of the pension reform that can come. Here is also our amendment in the budgets with the consequence of the change in civil legislation on capacity, the articulation of capacity support and the change in order for such support to come by court or notarial record. I believe that here we have a small question to resolve of high importance, very easy to solve but of high importance for families and in which we will certainly continue to work to make it part two of the pension reform, while we also call for a pending report on pensions and disability and I assume that it could give us a lot of light on how to deal with this whole issue. However, in order to conclude in this very brief speech, I would like to welcome, on the one hand, that the budgets reflect what has been the legislative path to date. It is also worth noting that there are agreed issues that add value to the agreement that PeCAT has reached to support budgets, or reinforce this decision to support budgets, and to warn you, with the good working climate in place, that we will continue to work intensively on those fringes that we believe are appropriate, both in the area of being able to include them in these budgets and I am convinced that we will be able to make an optimal solution in future laws to deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u262	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress has the floor, first of all, Mrs Angulo Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u263	Thank you, President. Mr Escrivá, you defend today the budgets of infamy agreed with the seditious who attacked our rule of law, those who favor with a reform of the penal code tailored, and with Bildu, a party with which out of dignity and respect for our recent history no Democrat should sit down and negotiate anything. [[Applauds]] They are the accounts of inequality, because they consolidate the impoverishment of the middle class and worker asphyxiated by inflation and the rise of taxes, light, gas and shopping basket, which impact on policies that cause more than 13 million people to live in poverty and bring thousands of SMEs and self-employed people to ruin every day. They are the accounts of the unprotected in the face of the failure of their social shield. You presented us with the IMV as the social penicillin against poverty, but since they govern there are two million more poor in Spain, still not receive it 40% of the promised beneficiaries, deny 70%, barely perceive it by 13% of people in severe poverty and those who need it most and do not ask for it. The causes of this failure were known because we warned them: complexity of the procedure, excessive bureaucracy, lack of dialogue with the autonomous communities and the means to carry it out. As always, they did not listen, as they did with the warnings about the perverse effects of the law of the alone is, for which you too are responsible and which has caused irreparable harm to the whole society, leaving women unprotected against sex offenders who today continue to go out on the street or see reduced their sentences for the pride of the principal responsible, Pedro Sánchez, prisoner of his partners to stay in Moncloa. [[Applauds]] While you only listen to those who serve Sánchez's spurious interests, you despotically dishearten the workers of his ministry and, fundamentally, of Social Security. CSIF, Workers' Commissions and UGT have denounced - I read literally - their failure, the chaotic scenario and the unsustainable situation of the IMV, which, far from providing a solution to the vulnerable population, fails because of its inability to manage and causes delays in other social security benefits. Look at this news. [[Shows a press clipping]] Getting an appointment in Social Security is impossible, they don't care if your child doesn't eat. What do you tell those people? What have three new General Secretariats, an Advisory Council, a Follow-up Committee, a Scientific Committee and an Ethics Committee created for two years later to offer you the IMV bus and an impudent propaganda spending while only 56% of the budget is implemented and 70% of applications are denied? [[Applauds]] Weak, because they neither reduce poverty nor achieve employment inclusion, because they are not linking the IMV to an inclusive itinerary for all beneficiaries, but have turned it into a mere economic benefit more as they veto our amendment for inclusion strategies. You are limited to mere pilotage that only reaches a few, but, Mr Escriva, the families you are leading to ruin need urgent solutions. For them, denials and delays, because their emergencies are for seditious, embezzlers, okupas and sexual aggressors. [[Applauds]] Today I am addressing the Members of the PSOE. Since you cannot give honest lessons because you belong to the party that used the money of the Andalusian unemployed for brothels and drugs and its president J.A. Griñán is sentenced to prison - unless pardoned - I ask you not to be accomplices to the infamy of sedition, which in your hands is preventing it, because remember that the blackmailer never complies with the first payment. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Angulo. Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u265	Thank you, President. The budgets we are debating in this plenary are bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. In this I have to say that she is an expert Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero, to whom we know very well in Andalusia, in my land; as Health Adviser she dedicated herself to patching up the Andalusian Health System, which then collapsed, leading the health personnel to manifest on the Andalusian streets during the years of socialist government. And now he does it again, patching up with Pedro Sánchez's complicity, presenting bad budgets for our country and also for migration. Spain, as we advocate from the People's Party, needs a migration state pact that bets on regular, orderly, secure and labour-market-oriented migration. And these budgets, Mr Escrivá, are in the opposite direction. That is what we said last year in this debate and the data confirm that we were right. Recent data on the SER Chain - I mean, the SER Chain - : the arrival of migrants in 2022 has risen by 15% in the Canary Islands; of the 9255 migrants who arrived in 2021 it has increased to 10,637 on board 235 pateras; and many others to whom you have not appointed, Mr Escriva, the more than 4000 people who have not reached the coast and who have drowned trying to reach the Canary Islands. [[shows a press clipping]] On the other hand, Mr Escrivá, allow me, with the political pride that characterizes you, to boast of your migration policy. By the way, a pride that has already caused resignations to right and wrong in his ministry, where we are already going through the third Secretariat of State for Migration. Under the government of Pedro Sánchez, the biggest migration crises have occurred and, with these budgets, they are deepened. Minister, please listen to these words: The efforts of the added tasks of the Canary Islands in relation to other communities arising from the challenge of the migratory phenomenon are acknowledged. They are not mine, you said them, you said them at the signing of the agreement with the Canary Islands in the amount of EUR 50 million, which you have now eliminated. Minister, the reasons continue, the arrival of irregular immigrants continues, the neighbors of the Canary Islands do not have to pay with their taxes the expenses arising from the migratory pressure, as it happens in other autonomous communities; I say again, in immigration policy the motto of this government is: I invite and you pay. [[Applauds]] In short, these budgets confirm this Government's policy of migraines, bandages and lies in terms of migration, as demonstrated by what has happened in Melilla, where Mr Marlaska has left the Civil Guard behind, and who, out of decency, has to resign. Mr Escrivá, we say no to irregular immigration, we say no to these budgets. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u266	Thank you very much, Mr Ortiz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u267	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for these budgets. I'm starting with the migration area. This budget allows for the transformation of the existing migration model through the deployment of the concert system for the reception system and the creation of new reception places in their own centres. This gives greater stability to the reception system and to international protection. The commitment to care for displaced persons from the war in Ukraine is also maintained, with the focus and socio-occupational integration and the support system for Ukrainian families outside the reception system. Finally, measures to ensure the proper development of the reform of the Aliens Regulation, which are also important for the proper care of migrants. From our point of view and from the point of view of human rights, it is important that these measures be accompanied by the facilitation of legal and safe channels for migrants. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, I say legal and secure ways to prevent what happens in so many places and not what we have experienced in the Melilla massacre from happening again. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you should be ashamed of the cynical demagogy they use when they request the resignation of Minister Marlaska one day and, the next day, veto the commission of inquiry we ask with other groups to clarify what has happened. You are the shame of our country. [[Applauds]] With regard to social security, we have increased, minimum living income has been increased by 8.5%, just like pensions, and the income supplement will be implemented. The new law on self-employed persons is also budgeted to ensure that self-employed persons contribute to their real income, and in January this law comes into force. The family law, which improves maternity and paternity leave and also legalizes the accumulation of permits for single-maritime families and finally eliminates this discrimination, is lacking, which we will see in a very short time. As far as pensions are concerned, this part of the budget must be particularly painful for the People's Party, because at the worst time of the 2008 economic and financial crisis, Mariano Rajoy, of M. Rajoy, followed the premise of the worst, the best for you and your friends, the big investment funds, but you did not count the second part, which was what you were really pursuing, the worst, the worst for citizens. In 2012, you, just to reach the government, approved the labour reform, which resulted in the unemployment rate reaching its historical peak of almost 27% in 2013. You have sent 6,278,000 people to unemployment. And what did they get out of it? To reduce the income of Social Security, and also to start with it the privatization of pensions, with its law of 2013, to sell them, as I have said, to the banks, to the vulture funds, those of the ball, which is very consistent with their corrupt way of governing. With the sustainability factor, which did nothing more or less than lower the pension to the youngest, and with the revaluation, to 0.25 % they impoverished the pensioners, who lost much purchasing power. Today, Spain has one of the lowest inflations in the European Union thanks to the policies of this government and yet we are living in an inflationary crisis. With the revaluation of 0.25 % of the People's Party, the average pension of 1140 euros would have lost 100 euros per month. And what is this government, the unity government, and the PSOE doing? Well, look, from Podemos we said we were going to reverse his strategy of privatization of pensions, and we did it. This government has repealed the sustainability factor and the revaluation of 0.25 %; we have recovered the update of pensions to the CPI, so, despite the huge inflation I have mentioned earlier, pensions are not going to lose a single euro. In these budgets we have increased pensions to 8.5%. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, 0.25 %; we, 8.5 %. With the historic increase in wages and the improvement of the quality of employment, we have greatly increased the income of social security and have also recovered the Reserve Fund, the so-called pension fund, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have emptied from the EUR 66 815 million available to you. We said that the pension system was sustainable and today we have shown that the unsustainable was the privatization that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, wanted. Neither the People's Party nor VOX support the sustainability of the public pension system and prefer privatization, and we have heard citizens here many times that they have based their crusade against these budgets on opposing the increase of pensions to 8.5%, in the midst of the inflationary crisis. PP, Citizens and VOX from now on will have to wash their mouths before talking about pensioners again. And we're going to keep moving. The debate has reopened with regard to the increase in the contribution period, and I tell you clearly that with the votes of Podemos the contribution period will not be increased to thirty years or thirty-five years. We have already stopped it at the beginning of this parliamentary term and again have stopped it if necessary. We are aware of the need for further progress; we need to comply with the law, to carry out the audit of Social Security; we need to increase lower pensions; we need to end the gender gap of pensioners. All this, this Government, the Ministry of Social Security and the parties that support the Government, are going to succeed, because the pensioners and the pensioners are the pride of our country and therefore with these budgets we have achieved the virtually total reversal of the management of the Social Security of the People's Party, because, as is well said on the street: pensions, govern those who govern, defend themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u268	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u269	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, another year coming from the general budgets of the State. I believe that you already know what I have come to say, just as I already knew what you have come to present, because unfortunately how you endorse your political decisions - as my party's spokesman, the most important law of the year, the general budgets of the state, which is the law that is precisely what the policies that this government is going to implement are going to be - that has not changed in its ministry; on the contrary, we have deepened in the same mistakes. You are also a very moderate minister, you could perfectly be the minister of bipartisanism, PP and PSOE because you were also a very well-known personality in the People's Party, as President Rajoy himself appointed you president of the AIReF. [[Applauds]] You, who are such a moderate minister; you, who are so moderate among you and with the powerful, but so hard with the Spanish with these budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, the accounts that come to be presented are the usual ones, because they win the usual ones and because they lose the usual ones, the ones below, the most modest Spaniards, the most humble Spaniards. We've explained it to the full, we've explained it a thousand times, but it's okay, we're going to explain it again. Its accounts support a political decision, which is the political decision of the open borders, of mass immigration, of uncontrolled immigration. You give them millions and millions in programs to help immigrants. You are increasing the appropriations for asylum and reception policies by 134%. You give millions for asylum and reception policies in the Canary Islands. You give millions to Morocco. In short, you invest millions and millions and millions in the usual policies of mass and uncontrolled immigration that harm the most modest Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It draws attention to the fact that there are things that are growing very much - we have said 134%, almost 40% support for immigrants - and there are things that are growing very little, even things that are falling. You allow yourself the luxury of increasing aid to immigrants by almost 40% and, however, of reducing non-contributory pensions and benefits to the Spaniards by 11%. [[Applauds]] Minister, I don't know where you live, I don't care either, but I'm sure you live in a mansion, in an urbanization, wherever, where you probably have security, right? Well, where the most modest Spaniards, where the most humble Spaniards live, do not enjoy that security that you enjoy, and do not do so because of their policies. And again we will explain again what the most modest Spaniards are suffering in their meats and that you are striving to deny permanently. Why do the Spaniards who live in the most modest places in Spain lose? Firstly, because a policy in favour of open borders, a policy with massive and uncontrolled immigration, generates a cultural invasion. That is, for a numerical question, in places where a particular culture is majority over others - as you well know, because I am convinced that you know it - such pink multiculturalism does not work, cultures impose on each other and create problems. It creates problems in this pink multiculturalism because in the end there are ethnic clashes, cultural confrontations and cultural imposition. On the other hand, they lose the most humble Spaniards because massive and uncontrolled immigration in these places also generates crime and insecurity. The taboo theme: immigration and crime; it is impossible to relate it without you calling us racists, xenophobics, of everything. Well, it's a critical, basic criminological issue. On the one hand, it increases imported crime. It's common sense. In Spain and Europe we are seeing forms of imported crime that did not exist; forms such as female genital mutilation, such as forced marriages; forms such as sexual assaults called taharrush gamemea, which I am sure you also know very well what they consist of, in the harassment and collective sexual assault of men in mass to women who find themselves alone, often taking advantage of even the multitudes, practices that originate, moreover, in countries such as Egypt. But, in addition, insecurity and common crime increase, theft increase, homicide increase and rape increase. It is also common sense that, on the one hand, common crime occurs in the economically most depressed places, of course, but there is also a cultural factor for the increase of common crime in these places, which increases rape when it comes massively to places where there are eighty times more rapes than in Spain, places where homicides are much more frequent, places where there is no justice and justice is applied by hand. This is essential criminology and it is common sense, and telling the Spaniards is telling them the truth. [[Applauds]] Do not be afraid to recognize the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, a third factor that you provoke in humble Spaniards is precariousness, because massive and uncontrolled immigration pulls wages and increases poverty, as the figures are unfortunately showing. When you choose these policies, you choose cultural invasion, you choose insecurity and you choose precariousness for the Spaniards. Is this to say that all foreigners are criminals? No, no, it's not, there are many foreigners with very good will. This is simply to say that massive and uncontrolled immigration, and its many cultural factors, increases insecurity and increases crime. The Ministry of the Interior says so, I don't say so. [[Shows a document.-Applause]] The Ministry of the Interior says, for example, that 34 per cent of the violations committed in Spain are committed by 11 per cent of the population; the latest report by the Ministry of the Interior. Your Honor, I am convinced that you are so moderate with the powerful, so moderate with the mafias, so moderate with the Davos Forum, so moderate with the World Bank, so moderate with the complicit NGOs, so moderate with those who live like you, but that it is very hard with the Spanish. And people who are having a bad time...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u270	Mrs. De Meer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u271	I'm done, Madam President. People who are having a bad time, the 13 million Spaniards who are at risk of poverty, those who can't pay the shopping cart, those who can't pay the gas, those who can't pay the rent, don't want moderation, want firmness. Thank you so much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u272	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Meer. [[Mrs Carvalho Dantas asks for the floor]] Yes, Mrs. Carvalho.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u273	Madam President, I call on Rule 72 in relation to Rule 103. Concepts, very offensive words and lies have been spilled against certain persons, in this case, migrant persons. I would like you, Madam President, to withdraw from today's Minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u274	Mrs. Carvalho, thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Diouf Dioh has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u275	Minister, President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, these budgets are good. Mrs. De Meer, do you know why the funds have increased? To be able to care for migrants in terms of asylum. I guess they don't care what's going on in Ukraine, because they don't believe in anything. [[Applauds]] The democratic and rule of law state is reflected in the measures we take to ensure that the rights and freedoms of citizens function with due legal certainty, and one of our main functions, as representatives of the people, is this debate, that of budgets. With regard to the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, at a time of uncertainty in which the welfare State must be protected, we must also protect people who may be having a bad time. This government has already done so with the ERTEs in front of the COVID. With these public accounts we contribute 212 million euros from the recovery fund to continue to provide coverage through the inclusion routes for workers, and to entrepreneurs as incentives for employment with the social inclusion stamp. Also, the minimum living income, which has reached more than a million people, for this year we have increased it by 8.5% to reach more families. With regard to pensions and non-contributory benefits, we want to reach almost 225 million, with pensions being the largest item, rising according to the CPI, with expenditure of more than 192 million euros. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as Sonia Guerra has already said, we Socialists have raised more than EUR 700 billion for the pension fund and you have emptied it in five years. Since then, the sustainability of the system has been threatened. Again, it will be us Socialists who are going to reflocate it. Under the intergenerational equity mechanism of this Government, an income of almost €3 million is planned and in the next ten years we are going to inject into the Social Security Reserve Fund a mattress of €50 billion to maintain the sustainability of the system. This is what this government does: we invest in older people, we invest in the future. The Labour Reform of the People's Party left Spanish households unemployed, with temporary contracts and precarious contracts; the Spanish youth had to leave to look for a better future. Both the People's Party and the ultra-right have not spoken of any work or acknowledged that there are more than 20 million people affiliated with Social Security; nothing about the reduction of time in half; nothing about three out of every four under thirty years of age having an indefinite job; nothing about female employment, when today there are more women than ever working; nothing about the implementation of the new system of self-employment contributions, based on net returns. They have nothing to say, for sure. Why? Because, both the right and the far right, they only create rift and uncertainty to society. In the area of migration, what the Government does is not recognized in bad faith. You had an absolute majority and never talked about an immigration pact; that's when you're raising it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you have always done so, when they were ruling they were applying policies that did not serve us in terms of migration, and now that you are in the opposition, that is when you are most critical of us. Today, with the reform of the Aliens Regulation, we have been able to strengthen regular immigration, reduce the channels of irregularity, dignify the employment situation of immigrants and guarantee migration policies taking into account the countries from which they come, i.e. improving the rights and freedoms of immigrants in the budgets, with a total of EUR 180 million by 2023. Whatever happens, Minister, I say again that the right and the extreme right were not going to recognize these budgets. They were not going to recognize them because, in principle, they did not want to recognize the legitimacy of this Government either. Why? For his power-craving. They began by denying themselves, then denying their corruption and now blocking the General Council of the Judiciary. Yesterday and today, Members of the Socialist Party have been pointed out in posters. We could do it just as you are doing it, because with the Spaniards, at least, transparency lies in this government, which has always served the reality of this country, working for the most needy people. We could also use what you are doing, showing that the People's Party had things to see, starting with the motion of censure. [[Applauds]] We saw that empty seat. We could also talk about your current leader, who has not taken into account when you spoke these days about the grandfather fights of the past. Tell Mr. Feijoo that after the fight he spoke of there were forty years of lack of rights and freedoms, millions of deaths, exiles and people suffering hunger and poverty. [[Applauds]] That is why, even today, in 2022, laws such as the Democratic Memory Act are needed. The children of the civil war who had to emigrate were allocated a sum of almost 4 million euros. A lot of things you have to hide. Work, but not amending these budgets, which are good for Spain and for the immigrant population who may be living in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u276	Thank you very much, Mr Diouf. Finally, the debate in section 33, Ministry of Universities, is relevant. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I cannot fail to start my intervention by also expressing solidarity with the Minister, Irene Montero, as the Minister, José Luis Escrivá, has done, who has been the victim of a totally unacceptable level of political violence in this House. [[applause]] I structured my intervention by focusing on the budget priorities of the ministry, also incorporating what concerns the autonomous agencies that depend on it, in order to put an end to general conclusions. As I was telling you, before presenting the main specific lines of the budget of the Ministry of Universities, allow me to make some general considerations on the bill. Since it could not otherwise be, the budget of the Ministry of Universities contributes, within its possibilities, to the increase of social and productive investments, considered central in this draft budgets and which in the case of the university system converge both in education and in research. [[Rumors]] In this regard, I would highlight the view that this ministry and also this Government defends, of scholarships as a right of access to the education system and, of course, also to the university system, linked to the socio-economic conditions of students. This priority concept has meant a significant increase in the resources allocated to them. Well, in 2023, an additional EUR 400 million is planned for these scholarships, which represents an increase of almost 20%, which, if we look at what has happened since 2020, represents a substantial cumulative increase of EUR 1024 million devoted to scholarships for access to the education system, i.e. an increase of 65%. [[Rumors]] In the field of the transformation of the productive model, the ministry has also developed a clear policy of commitment for the improvement of the quality of the university system, connecting with the increase of the funds destined, on the one hand, to the Education of University Professor - the scholarships of FPU -; the good execution of the funds linked to the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience and the maintenance of investments in projects as relevant to the Spanish university system as are the project of the European university alliances, of a...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u278	Excuse me a second, Minister. I'm sorry to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u279	Thank you, President. He spoke to them about the maintenance of investments in projects so relevant to the Spanish university system, as is the project of the European alliances of universities. The European Union, which already has a higher education policy that we can consider as Spanish internal policy, is developing a system of setting up European universities in which Spain has a very significant role. This is, therefore, the context in which budget section 33, which I defend here, concerning the Ministry of Universities, which benefits from the great budgetary effort of policies in education and research promoted by the Government as a whole, is inserted. The Ministry's budget, without autonomous bodies, for the next fiscal year amounts to a total of €441.65 million, including in this amount almost 130 million of the PRTR, the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The above represents a clear budgetary increase of more than 10%, without taking into account the funds of the recovery plan that have been distributed in a decreasing way over the last few years in order to generate more rapid resource generation by universities. Since 2020, the budget for universities has been increased by almost 80%. This increase has been due to the PRTR, but also to the other budgetary programmes which have increased by more than 25% in these three years, thus changing the downward path of budgeting and funding of the university system that had been characterized since 2009. Looking at the distribution of the budget in the various budget chapters, he would also highlight a number of elements. For example, almost EUR 20 million, or 4.45% of the budget, is earmarked for Chapter 1. Current expenditure on goods and services amounts to €7.7 million. Current transfers amount to EUR 148 million, which is a third of the budget. Capital transfers reach EUR 264 million, almost 60% of the budget. This distribution of the budget between the various budget chapters follows the same patterns as in previous years, and is as follows: The vast majority of the budget, i.e. around 94 %, goes directly to programmes with a direct impact on the university system and, consequently, on citizenship, while only the remaining 6 % goes to the Ministry's operations, 4.45 to staff costs and 1.75% to current expenditure on goods and services. Given these overall figures of the budget and its distribution by chapters, I began to analyse the various spending programmes of the ministry. In education policy we have three programmes. Program 322.C, dedicated to university education. The appropriations for this programme are increased by EUR 6.20 million compared to the budget for 2022. Here, for example, are the transfers to UNED - which, as you know, is a unique university that depends directly on the ministry and not on the autonomous communities, such as the rest of the cases - and the programme of European universities. It would highlight several aspects, for example, the consolidation of a budget of EUR 3.5 million to provide national funding to both public and private universities participating in the programme of European universities, in which the presence of Spain is very relevant, as I said earlier, with more than thirty universities present, being above countries such as Italy and being at the same level as countries with more populations such as Germany or France. There is an increase of EUR 3 million due to the organisation of events in the framework of the Spanish Presidency of the Council of the European Union, where we will have for the first time a meeting of all the directors who are part of the network of European universities that I have just mentioned. There is also an increase in transfers to UNED of more than €800,000. A new item that I would particularly like to highlight is the one dedicated to promoting for the first time in Spain the citizen science, with a budget of 400,000 euros and an increase of 200,000 euros in the transfer that the University of Granada receives to finance the campuses of Ceuta and Melilla. The second programme of education policy is 323.M, dedicated to scholarships and student grants. This programme incorporates, for example, the national end-of-care awards, the scholarships awarded by the IUMP - Menéndez Pelayo International University - for assistance in their economic activities or the national co-financing of the Erasmus+ programme, which manages the Spanish Service for the Internationalization of Education, SEPIE. It is also worth noting an increase of €70,000 over the previous year, which is mainly due to the increase in the allocation of the Campus Inclusive programme. The last programme of this policy, 321.O, is of an instrumental nature, since its objective is to make possible the implementation of the other programmes mentioned above. Within this programme, there has also been an increase of EUR 300000 in current expenditure on goods and services, mainly due to the increase in costs expected for both raw materials and the planned expenditure for the Spanish Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2023. With regard to research, development, innovation and digitisation policy programmes, the budget includes three programmes. The programme 463.A, on scientific research, is experiencing significant growth, 18 million euros, representing more than 15%, to cover several topics, for example, aid for the training of university professors - FPU -, short stays, temporary transfers and FPU linked to the European University Institute of Florence. I would like to stress that the increase in the FPU grants is 18 million euros, reaching a total of 98,865,000 euros. In addition, there is an increase in contract aid from 885 to 900, with an improvement in wage growth, because it has been established that the wage fixed in the EPIF will increase by 60% in the second year and that it will reach 75% of the wage fixed in the EPIF in the third and fourth years. Increase in the number of aids reserved for persons with disabilities up to 5%. At the same time, an amount corresponding to the award for the end of the contract has been incorporated, because these scholarships for years already have a contract logic. [[Rumors]] I would also like to highlight, because it is a significant novelty, the introduction of a scholarship for the holding of stays for each of the FPU aid to be made over the duration of the aid for a maximum amount of EUR 6300 each. The Beatriz Galindo grants, for the attraction of the research talent to the universities, previews a departure of 14 million euros. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u281	And the national end-of-race awards are also incorporated with a budget line for this objective. With regard to the programmes for the implementation of the PRTR, it amounts to a total of almost EUR 130 million. There is an important part concerning the training of teaching and research staff in public universities, with 120 million euros, to execute the third annuality of some modalities that some of your ladies will remember: Margarita Salas, María Zambrano or re-qualification of university professors; all of them programs that have had and continue to have a great reception. On the other hand, the 46 EU programme, on improving digital infrastructures, equipment, technologies, teaching and evaluation, which seeks to improve the digitalisation rate of Spanish universities, will have an increase of €8.53 million, 10% more than last year. With regard to three autonomous bodies attached to the ministry, which I recall are the Menéndez Pelayo International University, the National Evaluation Agency and the SEPIE, I have to say that in the case of the IUMP, the Menéndez Pelayo International University, there is an increase in the transfer of the ministry from almost 190,000 euros to strengthen economic management, and thus the expenditure budget of the IUMP is set at about 25 million euros. In the case of SEPIE, foreign service, it is worth highlighting a budget increase of 1.2 million euros, which makes its budget reach almost 54 million euros. This increase is mainly due to the increase in revenue received from the European Commission to manage the Erasmus+ programme, which, as you know, is a programme of undoubted success. Finally, ANECA's budget grows to almost EUR 13 million. The increase in income and expenditure is mainly the result of the Agency's increased evaluation activity. And although it is not an autonomous body as I have already mentioned, but a public university, UNED is a unique public university. This university will receive a total of EUR 85 million with these budgets, while operating expenditure will increase by EUR 800 000. This means fulfilling the commitment we had to recover the contributions to UNED, which had been coming down. Having done this review and before giving way to final conclusions, allow me to refer to some normative forecasts that are also included in the project and that we believe are of great importance to the university system. On the one hand, and in the line of strengthening the teaching and research capacity of universities, the budget for the year 2023 once again considers that teaching and research staff and administrative and service staff are a priority sector from the perspective of public supply. This means that the replacement rate for both groups will be 120 per cent next year. Thus, the replacement rate for this year, 2022, which increased by 10% - it was 110 - is maintained for the year 2023, reaching 120 %. This is quite important because it allows the renovation of all the staff who, as you well know, in some universities have a remarkable aging rate. Just as this year, public universities in the same community are allowed to transfer replacement rates with the authorization of the Autonomous Government, which may be relevant in the case of universities of different ages, for example the University of Seville and the UPO, which are very different in old age and can share this joint replacement rate instead. However, the Government's strong will to promote the rejuvenation of university staff and to reverse a situation arising from the policies of previous Governments that jeopardized the very sustainability of the university system is highlighted. I'm done. Let me reiterate that the draft budgets for the 2023 financial year take a step further in the commitment of the Government and this ministry to the access and quality of the Spanish university system, as well as to its contribution to the transformation of our productive model. The draft budget not only clearly increases the economic resources allocated to the university system, but also structures and contains budget forecasts designed to make the Spanish university more accessible, to improve the quality of the university system through the training, qualification and rejuvenation of its faculty and to modernise universities in areas as important as digitisation and internationalisation. For all these reasons, I hope that you will vote in favour of this draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u282	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u283	Thank you, Madam President. Good evening, Minister. I want to start with a reflection. When you leave the Chamber, what you try to tell those outside is that we debate here with respect, with education and courtesy. Today we will remain with Diogenes' phrase that insult dishonours those who infer it, not those who receive it. [[Applauds]] They will not believe it, but I will tell you, Minister, that I am the most envious Member of my group because in this section 33 the Government has vetoed us nothing, it is of the few sections in which we have received no veto. In any case, it is up to this procedure to defend the amendments and, well, I have even bet with some member of my group that we could accept any of the amendments; let us see if the majority of us are sympathetic to this Member and allow him to win this bet. Anyway, first of all, I would like to express my support for something you have expressed since you came to the ministry and it is your concern about the funding of the university system. In addition, it is a subject that has been recurrent in your interventions because already being in the process of the Organic Law Project of the University System - that at some point we will recover that process - my group will coincide in more or less with the positions of other groups or with the ministry itself, but to work and seek consensus we will always be on the way to finding the best possible law for the university system, but if and only if it is really for that. On the issue of funding, and above all because of the close relationship that this debate has with the 2023 budget, I can only echo the very words that you have spoken on other occasions, because that makes us doubt. We have doubts that this budget section really has enough funding, as it is here for processing since 6 October last. Even later you have expressed some concern precisely about the adequacy or adequacy of the resources that you will have in your ministry, and it is to be assumed that when the budgets come here you will have had both the opportunity to form those accounts in your department and to reform everything that was missing in those first six months of 2022. You said you only recognized a few days ago that budgetary talks would be needed, even in the presence of a socialist baron, a territorial baron, Mr García-Page, who would have even threatened to carry the Constitutional LOCUA if the university's funding was not secured; moreover, you said it was a warning, because you said that you would not tolerate demagoguery. [[The Lord]] And it is not that this spokesman of the opposition group tells it, but a president of an autonomous community, as well as a group of those who rule in Spain. And that's the million-dollar question, minister. Has this particular section already resolved those doubts which we have raised in some groups in this Chamber, not only us, but also very clearly exposed by a socialist leader? Unfortunately, at the moment we have no record of everything being arranged. In any case, we have amended the budgets, calling once again for a commitment to a single EBAU throughout Spain that equals all the autonomous communities, so that all those who submit to this test are equal. We have also amended these budgets in the joint text, in order to establish the legal obligation for public universities to draw up their employment relationships on a multiannual basis and on the basis of an analysis of the needs of the institution. And we are back this year with amendments that we have already tabled, last year, which were rejected at the time. In particular, for the creation of a unified web portal, with all the updated offers of work for teachers and researchers; for a web portal with scholarships and university grants, available in all Spanish university centres, both state and autonomous communities; for the renewal and updating of the integrated university information system, or for a student mobility programme through Seneca scholarships. These are amendments, as I say, which we have already tabled in other budgets, with another being the head of the university department, and which were intended to achieve, precisely, an improvement in the funding, not only of university centres, but of students themselves and their families. You have made reference to scholarships, and it seems very good to us, but we believe that more can be done in that regard. I repeat that my group is concerned, first of all, with the content of the law of the university system, of course, but we are also very concerned that any reform that comes out of this Congress, we like it more or we like it less, in the end it does not have the necessary means and resources. That is why I reiterate to you those doubts that this budget section offers us, because, as I say, you yourself have indicated the need to improve that funding. So far, we have no news that this budget forecast is adequate, complete, complete and can cover all needs. Moreover, I have to remember even your own announcement last September of the creation of a working committee with the Autonomous Communities to address precisely the issue of university funding, at a time just prior to the arrival of the budgets at this Congress; however, we have not heard again that this committee has ended and whether we have really solved the problem of funding. Ladies and gentlemen, given that I am holding a bet with some fellow grouper that we will be able to accept some amendment, all I have to do is think that for the university system these are good amendments that we are presenting. In any case, take into account the possibility that you will win this bet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u284	Thank you so much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u285	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good night. The university has also entered the auction of budgets. Too bad, minister. We have already said in the Commission that these are not the budgets that the university needs at the moment. When they boast of amounts thanks to the recovery funds, they forget, with that argument that my colleagues from other groups will repeat when I come down from this rostrum, that what I am talking about is a qualitative question, the political decision to strengthen and not weaken the universities. At a time when the Government is proposing to amend the regulatory framework for the Spanish university system, the ministry presents figures and percentages, but did not include a real economic memory in the LOSU project, a realistic memory, nor is there any trace in the budgets for the exercise in which they claim the new organic law to come into force. This new organic law with urgent procedure has suffered a slowdown following the presentation of amendments to the article; three extensions regarding the initial calendar and, mysteriously - understand my irony, despite the advance of the night -, advanced yesterday afternoon, in which they begin to close transactions and promise to some and other assignments in budgets or outside budgets, surprise us with an express calendar for the next week, but without this group having received any offer to speak, discuss and agree on 112 amendments submitted to the LOSU or on the amendments not vetoed to the general budgets, which I am currently defending. The auction, ladies and gentlemen, had closed. Here ends all the parliamentary work that deserves a new organic law of universities. What a disappointment, Minister. At that time and with that decision, his good words and his availability were exhausted. But see that I want to think that you disagree and that you have a chance. It must take the reins, untying the normative framework of the university of all, from this stubble into which the debate of budgets has become to remain in power. [[Applauds]] Some do not even take part in this debate, because they have achieved what they wanted, which we are getting to know little by little. To this day they will no longer be able to tell us that we have nothing to contribute. Well, they will, but we're proving they're not telling the truth, because we're not in it is not no; we wanted to be constructive, you know. The fellow speakers of other parliamentary groups, in this case in the case of the PSOE and the United We Can, talk about agreements and say that we do not support anything, but it is that the agreements are forged with dialogue, not with monologue, not with a succession of monologues, nor with imposition; there is no dialogue if there is imposition. Either we approve what they present or there is nothing more to talk about, that is, or we approve what they have agreed with other representatives of minorities who do not look for the State and who do not look for the Spanish university either, but for formulas to boost the rule of law, the State and, therefore, the Spanish university system also, because they are only concerned about their own, or we are not dialogians. This is not the case, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I want the position of our group to be very clear: we do not want the university to be sold to the highest bidder. [[Applauds]] If we follow the LOS calendar, which the spokesman knew last night, we can say that on December 22nd we are going to play the future of the university to the lottery. I ask you, please, that as a university minister, you do not consent to it, that you continue with the talent you have shown so far and that you stop this troupe. I'm asking you on behalf of the group. And in budgets I ask you to give instructions for the adoption of amendments from the People's Group, which are good, you know, to help all universities, especially the public, to deal with the implementation of the new law and to worry about medical faculties and that they can have enough qualified teachers. We can barely train more students if we don't have teachers, and it's a drama, we just have to talk to the deans. I have never heard the Minister or the Secretary General of Universities speak of a 50 million game announced by the Minister of Finance in the full debate so that they could access more medical students to the faculties. He said so in reply to Mr Errejón, although Mr Errejón had asked nothing in public in Parliament. Again, a further demonstration that it is possible to approve the amendments that we are presenting to you, that it is possible to include in budget allocations to help universities and that if they do not, it is by sectarianism. It has also become clear that everything that the offices of the ministry tell us is not true. Please adopt an amendment that we ask for universities to face the energy bill. This group has asked for it, the CRUE is also asking for it, and they tell us that it is not possible. If 50 million are possible here and 2 million are raised, it is possible. This is not an ordinary moment, and the ministry has to face it. You can't keep making transactions like you do in exchange for group loyalty. And please hire FPU, not interns. Better calls, there is no resolution of the year 2021 and we are almost about to eat the grapes of the year 2022. Minister, and I'm finishing up, don't betray the university community. Don't auction the future of universities to the best bidder. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you're tired, but this is also important.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u286	Your Honor, I should finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u287	We do not disintegrate the State through dynamizing the university model. We need a strong university system. The university is not that territory close to what everyone wants, it is a system that can compete and that can pull from this country, which is what we care about. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u288	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u289	Thank you, President. Section 33 of these budgets, corresponding to the Ministry of Universities, follows the focus of the rest of the budgets and presents a significant increase in resources to strengthen an indispensable public service such as higher education. We are talking about that, deducting the funds from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan or, in other words, accounting for only the net state funds, the university budget is growing by 9 %, which means that we are facing the third consecutive rise in the budget in universities and which also means that this coalition government continues to strengthen the public university, an institution that has been battered by the popular party's austerity prescriptions. In this sense, I wanted to give some data so that we could see the magnitude of the change in direction. In the field of research, for example, the budget for predoctoral contracts is increased by EUR 23 million, a notable increase. This item also takes into account the salary improvement for pre-doctoral contracts in the second, third and fourth years and also includes the amount of compensation for the termination of pre-doctoral contracts, which was one of the historical claims of this research group to address the precariousness of the sector. A major effort is also being made to maintain the 120 % replacement rate for the third consecutive year, which affects the bodies of university professors, university professors, as well as doctors and administrative and service staff. Therefore, the university system is moving towards an indefinite recruitment that leaves behind the rule of precariousness, and although this point is not understood by both the People's Party and VOX and prefers to leave thousands of researchers hanging from temporary contracts, the Ministry of Universities will continue to take decisive steps to reduce precarious work in the university sphere. Because more rights, more teachers and more stability in staffing means a better university and higher quality education. For the access and permanence of students, especially students with the greatest economic difficulties, this Ministry of Universities continues to rely on the reduction of university fees and study aid. In this sense, Beatriz Galindo's support for the attraction of research talent residing abroad, with a stake of 14 million euros, is increased, and, with regard to internationalization, the stake for Erasmus+ scholarships is increased to 40 million euros. In Podemos we have always argued that scholarships should be consolidated as a subjective right, that is, by disconnecting from purely academic criteria. I believe that this ministry has eliminated the unfair criteria introduced by the People's Party during its years of government and continues to make efforts in the same direction. We are therefore faced with good budgets for the university system, budgets that want to guarantee a flexible university to the social majority, that they want to reduce the precariousness of teachers and of PAZ and that they want to make the universities of our country a pole of development of the country. Thus, it would seem difficult to reject this section 33 of the budgets, but once again the People's Party and VOX will do so. It is true that they have done more difficult things to justify. You, who voted against the EREs in the middle of the pandemic, who voted against all the increases in the minimum wage, who even tried to boycott the European funds that their country had to receive, how could you not vote against budgets that are simply good for the university? But they don't cheat on anyone anymore or cheat on fewer people every time. You believe that you are the hardest opposition against this government that you call socialcommunist, but in reality you are opposed to the workers who charge the SMI, to the university students who receive a scholarship with the highest amount and the researchers, who have seen how their labour rights have improved. And you, and you're going to let me tell you this afternoon, are opposing women. I come from a community, the Murcia Region, where the ultra-right VOX has put as a condition to approve the autonomous budgets of 2023 eliminate scholarships for women who want to access STEM careers, that is to say, degrees of science, technology, engineering or mathematics, degrees where the gender gap is still very important. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. The condition that VOX has placed in the Murcia Region is to crush women, and the People's Party has had no problem buying them this misogynistic and sexist goods, nor have they had any problem in Castile and León to carry out laws against gender-based violence, nor would they have it if they arrived at the Spanish Government and the ultra-right-wing negationist asked them to eliminate all feminist legislation. You have wanted to turn this budget debate into a parade of attacks and macho insults against the Minister of Equality Irene Montero, but what we have experienced here this afternoon in this Chamber has gone beyond all democratic limits. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] VOX believed that he could come to Congress to attack a minister by putting his personal relationships in front of him, but what they have done is insult millions of women who have never been allowed to be anything more than the daughter of or the wife of. No man would ever be told any of that. [[Applauds]] I will be very clear: the ultra-right denies macho violence because it exercises it, because what we have experienced this afternoon in this Chamber is nothing but macho violence, because political violence against women is another form of macho violence, and we have to say it. [[protests.-Applause]] But if today VOX has crossed all lines of moral misery it is because these days we are living a media hunt against Irene Montero. Without that campaign of media powers and without the social climate that predatory dogs are creating, they wouldn't have dared so much. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: Hala! -Protests. -Applause.]] After having seen what happened here this afternoon, some people should be ashamed of themselves and would have to open up tomorrow's news and chatter asking for forgiveness. [[The applause continues]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are not worthy of being in this Congress, you are a disgrace to this country. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: A shame is what you are.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u290	Your Honor, one moment please, one second. [[Ms Montero Gil, Minister for Equality, spoke words that were not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u291	Higher, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u292	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u293	As soon as I can, don't worry that he answered. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u294	Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to try to finish the speech and then whoever wants to take the floor or take the floor will be able to do so on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. So I ask you, please, to stick to the Rules of Procedure and let us finish the intervention. Thank you. Go on and finish, you've got forty seconds left uncounted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u295	The ladies and gentlemen of VOX are a disgrace to this Congress and to this country. [[Protests.- Mr Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon: You are indeed a disgrace!-Applause]] I also want to say that the silence of the People's Party this afternoon is complicity and also a shame. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Fortunately, in this country fascist machismo is a minority and those of us who defend feminism and democracy are more. So, minister, don't let go, we're going to win. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u296	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have to start with Mr Serna. Are you sure you're from Murcia? Because if I were from Murcia, I would know that those who opposed women's scholarships are two people expelled from VOX and therefore do not represent our party there in Murcia. [[Applause.- Various Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Bravo!]] Let's see if you were born in another autonomous community. As for what you mentioned on personal matters, I will tell you that when Mr. Pablo Iglesias insinuated that Ana Botella, Mr. Aznar's wife, was there because she was Mr. Aznar's wife, you did not tear your clothes or say anything at all. [[Applauds]] It is that you have very fine skin for your own things and very hard for others. [[Rumors]] Minister, as everyone knows, universities have several ways of financing: firstly, academic fees, which amount to approximately 25%; secondly, current transfers from the Government and the autonomous communities in the form of grants or aid granted by the Government without direct consideration; thirdly, property income, income from property ownership; fourthly, disposal by sale of property; fifthly, transfers, etc. The bulk of this income is found in the rates paid by families and in the current transfers of the Government and the autonomous communities and, as is natural, as is already the case in Spanish public education, inequality is the predominant note, however much you, gentlemen of the sinister, strive to come here presenting yourself as champions of equality. It turns out that the funding per student and year of a Basque university is 60% higher than that of an extremist or mortian university. [[Applauds]] As always, as always, the Basque Country is at the head. Again and again, the different governments of Spain reward the regions that threaten national unity and punish those that remain loyal to this unity, and above all, according to article 55 of the law of the university system, you will ask the autonomous communities to invest 1% of the gross domestic product in university financing. It is obvious that those with fiscal benefits and greater economic development will have healthier universities, thus deepening their policies in the inequality of the Spanish. So don't come up with stories of equality and equity. The underfunded regions, like mine, Murcia, to which I do not know if Mr Serna really belongs, are punished in these budgets, scanning investments, as the CROEM has already denounced... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u298	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u299	... or diverting the planned funds for infrastructure to other autonomous communities. We assume that you will have to deduct that 1% of other investments of your own from the autonomous community. The budgets of the Ministry of Universities are the ashes of the general budgets and it is the crucial experiment that shows that this social government can operate at a propaganda blow. The reality that more and more Spaniards are getting to know is that you, who talk about collecting taxes to finance health and education, what you do is have collapsed health and a second divisional education, where there is no equity and where indoctrination takes precedence over knowledge. [[Applauds]] At the same time that the subsidies for trade unions are increasing, that you are raising your wages, that you are building a government so populated that you laugh at the Marx brothers' quarters or that you invest 590 million in the absurd, ineffective and even harmful Ministry of Equality, it turns out that the university gives 441 million, that is, 22 million less than in the past year. Above all, the UNED budget reduces it by 7.5 million. And, for greater scorn, the only budget items are those devoted to propaganda, which increases by 264%, propaganda aimed at advertising each and every one of the mantras of the fundamentalist left: climate fanaticism, gender ideology, hysterical memory, etc. [[Applauds]] And another common place you've mentioned is scholarships, which say they're a subjective right, which doesn't matter the notes. Students at the university are allowed to enrol in half of the credits corresponding to a course of study, and of this half they have the option of a scholarship, approving, in the most demanding of cases, 65 %. In other words, one student has a scholarship approving three out of ten subjects that constitute a course. The demagogic argument you use that this is for equal opportunities to fall by its own weight, because, in addition, you generate comparative grievances that are terrible. It turns out that - take note - a student, who belongs to a family of three members who enters 32,967 euros and who approves three of ten subjects has a scholarship, but a student who belongs to a family of three members who earns 44 euros more per year is not entitled to a scholarship even if he approves all subjects. Fairness, fairness in the distribution of scholarships. [[Applauds]] There is a fundamental reason why this social government may decide to consider scholarships as a subjective right and to absurdly lower academic criteria, and this reason is the result of its crude and disastrous ideology. For you the university is an end in itself and not a means to work out a professional future or for research. They've turned certain faculties into sinister activist training centers. There are faculties in which it is difficult to discern whether one is in an educational center or in a headquarters in Podemos. If it was quite common to meet high school students, with their scarapela and tambourine singing the Clavelitos, already at forty-forty years old, now what we see are not tunas, but tunates who are dedicated to making scrapes, who disguise themselves as poor and who, instead of the tambourine and the Clavelitos, carry the dog, the flute and the Bella Ciao, but still are social parasites at the service of governmental ideology. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] I'm going to finish, because I don't have time - Mr. Serna has taken a lot away from me. You do not welcome the fact that we are not making partial amendments because we do not like to work. Look, the amendments aim to fix some aspects of a law, clean or enhance those that are right and modify those that are wrong. That is why it is good that I remind you of a Lao-Tse ruling, which is immediately applicable to these budgets of ruin and, in general, to all the ideological laws with which you have punished us in this legislature. Lao-Tse says: you can't clean a wall made of manure; the wall we tear down. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, applause.- Various Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u300	Thank you, Mr. Robles. For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u301	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Robles that his speech before the plenary was disappointing. You not only deny macho violence, but come up here to exercise it. He condemns absolutely his attitude, his words and also the silence of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Delinquent words also speaking in section 33, Ministry of Universities. You are hurt by the public university system, you are harmed by equality policies, which universities provide and investigate with a gender perspective, which contribute to education on an equal basis. You don't like that, so you don't like these university budgets. A section 33 that is blunt, which shows how university games are consolidated and increased. Despite what the PP has been saying throughout the legislature, Mrs Moro, this government is clearly committed to public universities and to creating opportunities for our young people. This isn't a stubble. Do not mix budgets with other debates. The budgets of 2023 are increasing significantly, and this does not take into account the recovery plan. A recovery plan that, on the other hand, is having a strong impact on the university system. Nothing is sold here, as you told us. A university system, by the way, made up of fifty public universities that are located among the best thousand in the world. In other words, our university system is located in 10% of the world's best universities. There are our public universities, with one of the most equitable systems in the world, despite the image that some of the right-wing parties transfer, as we have seen. Some groups make it clear that universities are a key part of the global development of our country and also of our territories, of our communities, of our provinces, something to be valued. Our young people know that very well. They do not talk about this, about policies for our young people so that they can access a quality public system that generates employment and development opportunities, which promotes research and innovation and also equality. It seems that you do not know of this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And especially Mr de VOX, that one Commission after another in their speeches tells us about reducing the number of institutions, the number of universities and taking advantage of any intervention to denigrate our important university public system. At the heart of our policies are the scholarships, yes, that has not been said, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is one of the central axes of our government action, something that has been budgeted since you left the government after expelling thousands of students and researchers from Spanish universities with their cuts. There are more than EUR 25 billion for scholarships throughout the system. Also in higher education, 1 billion more than in Mariano Rajoy's latest budgets. Here too, the Minister highlighted, the programme for the training of university teachers for young graduates, which is growing by more than EUR 18 million. This will increase the number of university teacher training contracts, also increase their salaries, increase contracts for persons with disabilities, carry out end-of-contract compensation or establish stay as a right for all beneficiaries. Is this what you call selling the system? Don't you see any kindness in this budget? By the way, budgets that also include the prizes for excellence, such as the national prizes for the end of a career, with a million euros, or the prizes for the effort - yes, ladies and gentlemen, for the effort - which, by the way, you paralyzed when you ruled because you booed your minister Wert for the cuts. Those are the differences between you and us. We put public investment at the service of the youngest, students and the public university system. Also for citizen science, one of the important pillars of LOSU. This is aligned with the law to involve citizens in the design of R & D & i policies in line with European recommendations. Support for the European universities project is also highlighted in these accounts. There are thirty-one Spanish universities in European alliances. That's not what we've been told, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. Spain, together with France, is the country that has the most universities in the consortia of European universities, and it also consolidates this allocation of 40 million euros to co-finance the Erasmus + programme. Is this not important either? Does this seem like an exception to the Tomb Budgets, as you told us at the beginning? The heading for UNED, for operating expenses, is also growing at Menéndez Pelayo University. Ask them, ask them to see what they think about these kinds of games. In the field of personnel, the replacement rate is maintained at 120 %, the policies of the places of training of preferred personnel teachers, key pieces for the further renewal of our university system. It is clear that university policy is not the same everywhere. We can analyze what you do where you rule. Look, the difference is clear. In my homeland, Asturias, the Government of Adrian Barbón has just signed a contract-programme for the financing of the University of Oviedo that marks a milestone in financing. We can give more examples of communities governed by the socialists. When you were ruling, you promoted tax increases. We, on the other hand, have done what we have done is to reverse all those cuts that you set in motion in your governments. We can also set examples with current policies. Here we have Madrid: scholarships to the rich, higher increases in university fees... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u303	... They presume to lower university fees, but this has been done thanks to the policies of this ministry and this government. Public universities underfunded or financed by judgement. Thirteen of the forty-one private universities in all of Spain - one third, ladies and gentlemen - are in Madrid, five of them opened in recent years. There we have the different models. These are his university policies. These are their models, models that when they govern what they do is dismantle the public and increase inequalities. But these budgets follow another clear path: they improve public services and increase scholarships; that is, they reduce inequalities. All this in one more budget in spite of you. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u305	I am asking for the floor for article 72 in relation to 103 because he has just attributed to the VOX Parliamentary Group the commission of an offence under the Criminal Code, which is the exercise of gender-based violence, and I would like to recall that those who have committed violence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u306	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, there are certainly excessive rhetorical resources from too many Members in this House. [[Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon continues to speak with the microphone turned off]] Señor Espinosa de los Monteros, I'm talking. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to call for a vote, but I am going to use this moment, just before we proceed to the vote, to remind you of the importance of maintaining respect in this House, respect among us, respect for the institution itself, because that means respect for what we represent, that is, for the Spanish people. During this sitting today, ladies and gentlemen, expressions have been heard that, from my point of view, and I believe that it is something shared by the vast majority of the citizens of this country, have nothing to do with the behaviour expected of us, of those who have the representation of popular sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you once again, please, to reflect, to reflect on the image we have taken outside this House individually and collectively. We are the Parliament of Spain, we are the representatives of all the citizens of this country, ladies and gentlemen, and if we want a society that is respected, we must respect each other. I ask you, please, that there should be no more incidents like the ones we have experienced today. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] We'll vote in three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. Despite the fact that all parliamentary groups must have the information, I would like to inform you that Amendment 3761 has recently been withdrawn. We begin with the votes of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2023. Section 17, Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 149 against, 186 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u308	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. Amendments 2295, 2296, 2316 and 2317. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 103 against, 184 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u309	They're rejected. Amendments 2299 and 2301 to 2304. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 185 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u310	They're rejected. Amendment 2300. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 93 against, 185 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u311	It's rejected. Amendment 2312. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 105 against, 182 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u312	It's rejected. Amendment 2322. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 106 against, 182 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u313	It's rejected. Amendment 2327. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 93 against, 182 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u314	It's rejected. Amendments 2331, 2333, 2337, 2338, 2357, 2378, 2383 and 2384. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 185 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u315	They're rejected. Amendment 2332. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 106 against, 178 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u316	It's rejected. Amendment 2336. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 185 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u317	It's rejected. Amendments 2340 and 2342 to 2349. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 92 against, 186 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u318	They're rejected. Amendment 2341. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 185 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u319	It's rejected. Amendments 2351, 2358 and 2370. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 96 against, 182 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u320	They're rejected. Amendments 2352 and 2355. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 103 against, 185 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u321	They're rejected. Amendments 2354 and 2369. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 94 against, 185 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u322	They're rejected. Amendments 2359 to 2361. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 103 against, 184 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u323	They're rejected. Amendments 2371 to 2375 and 2377. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 93 against, 185 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u324	They're rejected. Amendment 2379. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 182 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u325	It's rejected. Amendments 2380 to 2382. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 103 against, 184 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u326	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Gimeno's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 181 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u327	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 94 against, 185 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u328	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López and Mr García Adanero. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 190 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u329	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 4238. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 24 against, 173 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u330	It's rejected. Amendment 4239. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 110 against, 172 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u331	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3865. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 193 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u332	It's rejected. Amendments 3825 and 3940. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 103 against, 191.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u333	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 192 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u334	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 3144. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 111 against, 166 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u335	It's rejected. Amendments 3146, 3178, 3184, 3201, 3205, 3208 and 3213. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 16 against, 169 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u336	They're rejected. Amendment 3242. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 113 against, 164 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u337	It's rejected. Amendment 3257. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 19 against, 260 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u338	It's rejected. Amendment 3258. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 9 against, 268 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u339	It's rejected. Amendment 3262. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 23 against, 165 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u340	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Rego Candamil's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 109 against, 166 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u341	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendments 5323 and 5324. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 106 against, 164 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u342	They're rejected. Amendment 5325. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 6 against, 264 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u343	It's rejected. Amendment 5328. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 5 against, 256 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u344	It's rejected. Amendments 5439 and 5440. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 104 against, 176 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u345	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Baldoví Roda's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 105 against, 177 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u346	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendments 2275 and 3367 to 3370. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 105 against, 178 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u347	They're rejected. Amendments 2277, 3388 and 3404. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 106 against, 178 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u348	They're rejected. Amendment 3364. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 298 votes in favour, 107 against, 176 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u349	It's rejected. Amendment 3365. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 147 against, 192 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u350	It's rejected. Amendment 3401. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 24 against, 179 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u351	It's rejected. Amendment 3402. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 16 against, 179 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u352	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Errejón Galván's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 104 against, 178 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u353	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 2737. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 22 against, 167 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u354	It's rejected. Amendments 2751, 2756 and 2757. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 109 against, 185 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u355	They're rejected. Amendment 2752. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 20 against, 169 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u356	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Accensi's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 109 against, 168 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u357	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. Amendments 4670, 4672 and 4675. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 110 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u358	They're rejected. Amendments 4683 and 4781. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 34 against, 162 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u359	They're rejected. Amendment 4775. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 114 against, 163 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u360	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 111 against, 166 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u361	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 4995 to 4997 and 5000. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 35 against, 253 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u362	They're rejected. Amendments 5003 and 5078. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 36 against, 253 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u363	They're rejected. Amendment 5077. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 27 against, 256 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u364	It's rejected. Amendment 5090. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 29 against, 252 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u365	It's rejected. Amendment 5113. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 121 against, 166 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u366	It's rejected. Amendment 5171. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 29 against, 264 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u367	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 35 against, 255 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u368	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 4043. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 193.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u369	It's rejected. Amendments 122, 125, 128, 132, 141, 145, 150, 156, 159, 163, 168, 173, 177, 179, 182, 187, 197, 196, 201, 203, 208, 210, 220, 223 and 225. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 103 against, 190 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u370	They're rejected. Amendments 153, 154, 158, 161, 164, 170, 172, 175, 180, 183, 186, 190, 193, 198, 268, 280, 341, 343, 353, 357, 363, 379, 390, 392, 403, 407, 425, 486, 491, 494, 507, 508, 511, 513, 514, 517, 528, 529, 534, 537, 553, 554, 557, 566, 568.592, 644, 664, 884, 1173, 1179, 1223, 1229, 1233, 1239, 1241, 1244, 1379, 1384, 1386, 1392, 1520, 1531, 1575, 1618, 1622, 1688, 1724, 1777, 1779, 1788, 1793, 1795, 1799, 1800, 1804, 1806, 1808 and 2108. [[Applauds]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 102 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u371	They're rejected. Amendment 466, 476, 562, 1670, 1771-1773, 1785 and 1802. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u372	They're rejected. Amendments 469, 472, 481, 485, 488 to 490, 492, 493, 495, 498, 503, 506, 512, 518, 523, 525, 535, 536, 540, 544, 571, 574, 579, 589, 601, 603, 605, 607, 611, 622, 625, 629, 632, 639, 650, 652, 654, 657, 663, 665, 668, 673, 697, 710 to 730, 732a 737, 739, 740, 745, 746, 748, 750 to 752, 755, 760 to 762, 765, 767, 769, 773, 776, 779, 787, 790, 811, 815, 818 to 820, 822, 1774, 1775 and 2142. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 154 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u373	They're rejected. Amendment 478. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 192 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u374	It's rejected. Amendments 1083, 1087, 1090, 1105 and 1113. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 155 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u375	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 153 against, 192 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u376	They're rejected. Transactional amendments. Transactional amendment number 39, to Amendment 2725 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 196 against, 92 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u377	It's approved. Amendment No 40 to Amendment No 2732 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 196 against, 92 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u378	It's approved. Amendment No 41 to Amendment No 2738 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 196 against, 92 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u379	It's approved. Amendment No 42 to Amendment No 2741 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 196 against, 90 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u380	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 43, to Amendment 2743 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 195 against, 92 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u381	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 44, to Amendment 2744 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 198 against, 90 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u382	It's approved. Transactional Amendment No 45 to Amendment No 2746 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 197 against, 91 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u383	It's approved. Transactional amendment No 46 to Amendment No 2755 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 196 against, 92 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u384	It's approved. Amendment No 47 to Amendment No 4593 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 287 against, 3 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u385	It's approved. Transactional Amendment No 48 to Amendment No 4984 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 204 against, 89 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u386	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 49, to amendment 4988 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 202 against, 90 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u387	It's approved. Amendment No 50 to Amendment No 4989 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 201 against, 92 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u388	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 51, to amendment 4994 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 201 against, 92 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u389	It's approved. Transactional Amendment No 52 to Amendment No 5001 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 200 against, 93 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u390	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 53, to amendment 5107 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 202 against, 91 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u391	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 54, to amendment 5110 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 201 against, 92 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u392	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 55, to amendment 5119 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 201 against, 92 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u393	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 56, to amendment 5157 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 201 against, 92 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u394	It's approved. Amendment No 57 to Amendment No 5230 by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 198 against, 92 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u395	It's approved. Amendment No 58 to Amendment No 5241 of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 189 against, 92 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u396	It's approved. Transactional amendment number 59, to Amendment 5278 of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 198 against, 92 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u397	It's approved. Section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3867. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u398	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 98 against, 192 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u399	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 14 against, 269 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u400	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. Amendment 3413. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 14 against, 269 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u401	It's rejected. Amendment 3414. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 5 against, 278 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u402	It's rejected. Amendment 3415. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 14 against, 269 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u403	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendment 5066. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 26 against, 252 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u404	It's rejected. Amendment 5084. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 124 against, 167 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u405	It's rejected. Amendments 5091 and 5092. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 38 against, 251 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u406	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 35 against, 252 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u407	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 4045. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u408	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 192 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u409	They're rejected. Section 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. Amendment 2395. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 13 against, 183 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u410	It's rejected. Amendment 2396. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 105 against, 181 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u411	It's rejected. Amendment 2397. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 184 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u412	It's rejected. Amendment 2399. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 293 votes in favour, 101 against, 180 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u413	It's rejected. Amendment 2400. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 181 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u414	It's rejected. Amendment 2401. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 103 against, 181 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u415	It's rejected. Amendment 2402. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 15 against, 184 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u416	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3869. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u417	It's rejected. Amendment 3665. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 102 against, 183 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u418	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 2999. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 115 against, 163 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u419	It's rejected. Amendment 3000. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 19 against, 167 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u420	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendment 5329. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 106 against, 165 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u421	It's rejected. Amendment 5442. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 107 against, 175 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u422	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendments 2776 and 2779. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 177 against, 4 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u423	They're approved. Amendments 2783, 2784 and 5312. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 113 against, 167 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u424	They're rejected. Amendment 2786. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 112 against, 179 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u425	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Accensi's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 17 against, 170 abstentions, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u426	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 294 votes in favour, 38 against, 251 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u427	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 4047. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u428	It's rejected. Amendment 593. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 103 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u429	It's rejected. Amendments 1944, 2003 and 2009. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 154 against, 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u430	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 103 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u431	They're rejected. Section 22, Ministry of Territorial Policy. Amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. Amendment 2403. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 12 against, 182 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u432	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 3870. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 100 against, 195.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u433	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. Amendment 2797. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 10 against, 257 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u434	It's rejected. Amendment 2799. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 181 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u435	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Accensi's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 20 against, 257 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u436	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendment 4048. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 295 votes in favour, 101 against, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-23-CD221123.u437	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]]
