ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the bill adapting the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March to the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court regarding the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature, derived from the Royal Decree-Law 26/2021 of 8 November. I should like to inform you that the Republican Parliamentary Group has called for this bill to be enacted. That request shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendments as a whole. Two amendments to the entire alternative text have been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u2	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This amendment to the bill on tax popularly referred to as municipal surplus value causes, as you know, in Royal Decree 26/2021, the royal decree of the haste, the one that arranged the minister in one weekend not to stop the cash register, 'clinc, clinc'. I would like to clarify, in case some people do not know that they are seeing us from their homes, that this tax already set it in its penultimate version by the People's Party, back in 2002. Yes, Mr Montoro, this one has a lot to do with Montero, so, in addition to having almost the same surname, when they raise taxes they pass it, as they say in my land, better than a hare in a vineyard. The PSOE then continues the saga keeping this tax in its terms, first with Zapatero, then with Sánchez and, finally, the Constitutional Court, putting some sanity, extinguished it. But the culebrón does not end here, because the PSOE reinvents the tax two months ago and, now, the People's Party, with its amendment to the whole, is going to make up the reinvention of the sanchoist regime with some slight exemption from a joke, but the question is that it keeps the tax in force. On the contrary, the VOX Parliamentary Group, which announced on 2 December the full challenge of this rule enacted to reinstate a new surplus-value tax, challenged it for two reasons. First, because the legislative figure used by the minister, the royal decree-law, and his haste deceivingly disguised as urgent necessity, was not the right one, that is, what did not solve in two years arranged it on a weekend. And, second, for the content of the rule, which reinvents a new formula for the sole purpose of continuing to attack unjustifiably the pocket of the Spaniards. This challenge that I announced to you today is materialized in two actions. An action in the legislative plane, bringing to this House an amendment to the whole of the above-mentioned rule that we are dealing with today as a draft law and in which we propose an alternative text worked, reflected and impregnated with common sense and sense of state, and which reflects the definitive expulsion of our legal order from this unconstitutional, confiscational and unjustified imposed. [[Applauds]] A second action, very important and which I thank publicly to the magnificent legal team of VOX, led by our secretary general, Mrs Olona, in the judicial field by the lodging of an unconstitutionality appeal to this infamous royal decree-law, which was pergenuated one afternoon on a weekend, after a congress, by the largest collector of the kingdom, to the braves and their way. The amendment to the whole of which the VOX Group is bringing to the debate proposes the amendment of Article 59 of the consolidated version of the Local Finance Act and the deletion of Articles 104 to 110 and, consequently, the definitive elimination of this tax. Since all the initiatives that we have put forward since VOX enjoy rigour and justification, this amendment could not be less, and the origin of it is not based on an ideological whim or on very chulian ideas, but rather brings its cause in the common sense and in our objective, which is nothing but to improve the lives of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Having said that, the various rulings of the Constitutional Court - which I will not repeat - have come to reveal the profound collision of this tax figure with the principle of constitutionality... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u3	Excuse me, Mrs. Cañizares. I'm asking for silence, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u4	As I say, these rulings of the Constitutional Court have come to reveal the profound collision of this tax figure with the constitutional principle of economic capacity, a principle which has been raised above the collecting anxiety of any government, of the Government of Sánchez and also of other previous governments, which did not blush to shape this tax - see Mr Montoro -, although today its successors, who call themselves opposition, tear their clothes and amend themselves. Consequently, it was entirely necessary to accompany the legal system to such unconstitutionality judgments imposed on the tax in question in the last four years. Thus, the rule that we come to amend today in subtotality apparently deals with this matter, but we believe that it is not enough to adapt the tax to the constitutional jurisprudence that has fallen since 2017, but that it is necessary to proceed to its immediate abolition. One of the fundamental reasons for this is that this tax is double taxation with other figures in our tax system, since they all charge the same amount of income or wealth and, therefore, we are faced with a clearly confiscatory tax figure. [[Applauds]] For this reason, and in order to be respectful, first, with the efforts of the Spaniards to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure and, secondly, with the constitutional principles of economic capacity and non-confessorship of our tax system, it is appropriate to definitively expel the tax from our legal system. The double taxation to which we refer is apparent when we are faced with a tax which imposes an increase in the value of land of an urban nature, a tax similar to that on which, for example, taxes on the income of individuals or corporation tax, taxes which are also applicable to property gains or increases, understood as increases in value. In summary, for example, we could say that there is double taxation between surplus value and the IRPF in onerous and lucrative transmissions between individuals, between surplus value and corporation tax in onerous transmissions between legal persons and with inheritance and donation tax. We also find cases of double taxation between surplus value and some special contributions required by the municipalities for the realization of public works or services. All of this is coupled with the fact that the legal configuration of the tax has not even come to consider the actual economic capacity of the taxpayer, but rather a non-existent or fictitious one. On the other hand, the collecting power of this tribute, which seems to make it indispensable or irreplaceable for the necessary financing of local corporations, is not a sufficient reason to justify its existence, but the reasonable approach would be the opportunity for a reform of the financing system of the municipalities, adapting financial needs to the competences and, therefore, to the services they provide. However, neither the different governments of Spain nor the municipalities themselves have shown sufficient interest in promoting a reform in this regard since 2017, but have preferred to rely on a relevant part of their collection to a merely powerful tribute and discussed foundations, to the point of continuing its validity four years after the first ruling of the Constitutional Court, which laid down the very existence and legal configuration of the tribute. Since 2017, the different governments, in appearance of a different political colour, have chosen to sacrifice the pocket of the Spaniards rather than to legislate to reduce their fiscal effort. As for the parallel action that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, we are talking about the filing of an appeal of unconstitutionality by our parliamentary group, which is based on the fact that a new tax cannot be created through the figure of the royal decree-law, however much the government of the regime claims an urgent, treacherous and treacherous need. [[Applauds]] But the most indecent and immoral thing, in a boast of contempt for the pocket and the intelligence of the Spaniards, was to hear from the Minister of Finance herself that this was arranged by her on that famous weekend. Therefore, with the filing of this appeal by VOX, we again keep our word to give the battle against the unjust rules of the sanchist regime on all fronts, including the judicial one. And since we already know that you are quite predictable, unoriginal and very repetitive in your balance and corner narrative, the Socialist Group, which supports the government and protects the minister, will go up to the rostrum, as well as to talk about hatred, xenophobia, far right, sanitary cordon and other disqualifying adjectives, but for each of those disqualifying adjectives that verbalize, we put on a pin, a medal, a bracelet or smoke a pure, according to the day, because it does not offend anyone who wants, but who can. [[applause]] [[applause]] I am going to go ahead with your report and say that we have worked intensively on this amendment in an integral way, not only to propose the abolition of the tax, but also by calculating the possible budget deficit which the municipalities will suffer by eliminating this tax from the tax inferno that we suffer in Spain. In addition, we have come to propose the source for funding. The economic impact of this tax on the municipalities has been estimated at approximately EUR 25 billion per year, taking into account the historical collection process. This meagre amount of resources can be compensated without the Spanish having to face a new embezzlement, eliminating certain unnecessary and superfluous toxic costs which are already found in the approved General State Budgets and which do not provide any utility or service to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] In this way, these EUR 25 billion that the State would no longer spend on frivolities could be used to finance the municipalities without the Spanish seeing the public services that they need being undermined. There are many tolls that this Government must pay - among other things, to certain coalition partners - in order to remain artificially in power and, therefore, these excesses must not be borne or financed free of charge by the Spanish in exchange for anything; they must be eliminated by democratic hygiene and so we get two by one. As we reduce the fiscal strength of the Spaniards, we are embarking on a true ecological transition, not the one you preach, but the real one, eliminating toxic and harmful waste that will improve the health of state institutions and oxygenate our democracy. [[Applauds]] Thus we eliminate, for example, within the high-ranking staff and 'high-burdens', some possible, fingered and others; in current expenses and services, the regime's propaganda, for example, or the regime's agenda, is called 2030; within the Ministry of the Interior, subsidies to political parties; the ministry of inequality; what you call inclusion, which is really excluded from the Spanish; in the Ministry of Labour, mariscatos and the like; the ministry, as a whole, of the anticonsumption of Spanish products; the Ministry of Universities, which has no functions, and some details of presidency and democratic demoralism. [[applause]] All this, which I have here perfectly detailed - if you want, then I pass it - amounts to the amount of 2587 million euros Squared the accounts with the current approved budgets, we do not raise the budget of expenses, we offer to the municipalities a total certainty in their resources, without needing to raise the taxes to anyone, will not produce the unwanted effect of increase in the price of the buildings, which is another of the pernicious sequels that generates this tribute, and so we are dismantling chiringuitos and eliminating a lot of expenditure whose marginal utility is negative for Spain and the Spaniards. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u6	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I feel, first of all, that the Minister of Finance is not here, on a day as important as that of the debate on amendments to the whole of one of the most important municipal taxes and that more resources are given to all the municipalities. Today we come to talk about the amendment of the Local Finance Act as regards the various rulings that the Constitutional Court has issued on the so-called surplus value, a bill that the People's Party can only qualify as unacceptable. That is why we voted against the validation of the Royal Decree in December, that is why we have tabled an amendment to the whole and that is why we have also brought this issue before the Constitutional Court. And it's unacceptable in two ways. Firstly, unacceptable in form and, secondly, in substance. It is unacceptable that in the legal text they try to hide their desire and their absolute lack of commitment to municipalism by indicating in the title that local legislation is adapted to the recent - and I want to emphasize recently - jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. The minister, in the debate on the validation of the royal decree, on 2 December last, took out her chest and, without blushing, said things like that the government was acting diligently once again - and I would also like to emphasize the debilitating -. She said: In fact, in record time a reform of the tax has been elaborated, which I want to remind you - she said - that it has the approval of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Three lies, three in a single paragraph, amazing! If the Government had been here today to respond, it would probably have surpassed itself. But how can you lie so many times in so little time! How can this government have the little shame of asserting has been diligent, when in May 2017 - four years ago - the Constitutional Court declared the levy of this tax unconstitutional and null? How can you be ashamed to say that this Government has been diligent when such a body urged the legislator to change the rule immediately? How can you be ashamed to say that this government has been diligent, when the government of the People's Party, a few months after that ruling – in February 2018 – presented in this House a bill to amend the Local Finance Act that you, the government of the Socialist Party and the Communist Party, have deliberately let go? Moreover, in point 9.4 of the agreement between socialists and communists of General Budgets of the State for 2019 devoted a whole paragraph to surplus value. That is to say, two years before they have brought this legislative proposal, two years before the last ruling of the Constitution, Mrs Montero's Government expressly recognises the situation of legal uncertainty following the 2017 ruling of the Constitution, which must be resolved as soon as possible as this situation cannot be prolonged any longer in time. It even goes so far as to say in the same agreement: the modification of the tax implies a considerable reduction in municipal income. And it also affects that agreement between PSOE and Podemos which requires immediate short-term compensation to deal with the economic impact that municipalities have to face. After these realities, how can this Government state that it has been diligent if for four years they have done nothing? Neither to comply with the Constitutional judgment, nor to reduce litigation, nor to compensate municipalities, nor to restore legal certainty to municipalities and taxpayers. You, members of the Socialist Party, knew that there was a need to reform the tribute. They had a previous text already made by the People's Party and did nothing. If his Government were truly committed to municipalism, if its Government truly understood the importance of this issue to municipalities and their public finances, they would not have waited four years to fulfill a mandate from the High Court to then get their breasts out saying that they have been diligent. [[Applauds]] They would have worked with the previous text that the People's Party had prepared and would have launched, as they then said in their proposal for agreement, a fund to compensate the municipalities for the reduction in their collection. Where is that compensation fund in the text you bring here, to this Chamber? Where is he? He doesn't show up. Where, by the way, is the amendment you tabled to that February 2018 proposal by the People's Party, where you said that a compensation fund had to be set up for the municipalities, which you decide to delete from this regulatory proposal? Consistency, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. A fund that in 2019 they considered necessary and now deny all the municipalities with excuses. A fund, by the way, in which the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces agrees, the entity to which the minister presumes to have consulted the content of this royal decree. In fact, the minister has only listened to Abel Caballero, a distinguished socialist and faithful lackey of subtropenia, as was evident when the minister and the government of Sánchez tried to appropriate the savings of all the municipalities. And, of course, if they believed in municipalism, they would not have drawn up a real decree-law fast and running with the sole aim of jumping all the formalities; they would have made an impact study of this regulatory change on the revenues of the municipalities. Because on this occasion they repeat the same modus operandi as with the VAT of local and autonomous administrations. You have unjustifiably delayed payment to autonomous communities and VAT municipalities in December 2017, relying on a non-existent State Attorney's report. She even went on to say that this amount did not exist and was not expected for the State's budgets. Finally, we have had to wait until the year 2022, lords of the Socialist Party, so that, forced by several sentences imposed from two autonomous communities governed by the People's Party such as Castile and León and Galicia, Sánchez yustedes have to return - hopefully now yes - to the municipalities and to the autonomous, to the Spaniards in short, which is his. This is also what has happened in the case of surplus value. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u8	On 26 October 2021, the Constitutional Court issued a new judgment - the third - which made it impossible to settle the tax. Sánchez and his Government, aware that their wish had left thousands of municipalities without an important source of funding with which to pay for basic services, decided, then yes, years later, to get to work. And then what do Sanchez and the minister do? The only thing they know how to do, improvise and lie, and on 6 November in the Congress of the Socialist Party - not in the seat of national sovereignty, not in the seat of the FEMP, not in the seat of the ministry, but in an act of the Socialist Party - literally says: On Monday settlement of the surplus value - man, of course - I take it to the Council of Ministers. And said and done, on a weekend, without consulting with the affected, without consulting with the municipalities and without talking to the FEMP, created a new tax by decree. I wish they were equal in speed to lower the VAT on the masks or the one that supports the hairdressers or by lowering the price of the light. They have some proposals from my parliamentary group in that regard, in case they want to copy us. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, they are only quick to harmonize taxes, i.e. to raise them, and to benefit their separatist and floretary partners with huge investments that thank them for keeping them in Moncloa. And from this propaganda, lies and improvisation arose a real decree through which there were serious doubts that a tax could be created, which is really what they do when changing the essence of the taxable act. And it is not that the People's Party says so, but that the Finance Technicians themselves, who were already doubting the constitutionality of the legal instrument used. It is a pity that, in the face of fear of new resources and sentences such as those of the state of alarm, they have decided to treat it as a draft law, something which the People's Party approved in order to have this debate here today. Terrible forms in this royal decree, in this normative amendment, in this bill and I am very afraid that the fund too, because if there is an increase in value in the transmission of the good, there is already a property gain taxed in the IRPF, so this tax does not cease to be a double taxation again. Lords of the Socialist Party, you had a great opportunity, with a record collection, to abolish this tax at once and face a new model of local funding, but it is in socialist and communist DNA to fry the citizens to keep the Falcon, the official cars, the thousands of advisors, twenty-three ministries; in short, to maintain their privileges. For all these reasons, we have tabled an amendment to the whole of which we propose things that I believe are of common sense, with a record collection as which this government presumes. First, the extension of the tax exemptions to exempt all natural persons, all citizens on foot and most small and medium-sized enterprises, as was also done with the modification of the economic activity tax in their day. Secondly, the creation - as you agreed in 2018, also in the 2019 budget agreement, but do not include it now -, within six months, of a mechanism and a special compensation fund for local entities; a simple mechanism that will have to strengthen municipal sustainability, which has to establish a new formula for the participation of local entities in state taxes that already tax the increase in the value of real property, such as the IRPF. Also a fund that will compensate the Spanish consistories for the losses caused both by the reduction in collection with the new model and by the time when the tax was not in force for this vacatiolegis and also for the claims they have to pay. A fund that will amount to about EUR 2 billion. I have heard the amendment to the whole of the VOX Group and I would like to make some comments. Firstly, we can agree substantially on the substantive issue of abolishing the tax. We do not agree that a compensation fund should not be included - although it has been said that this is the case here -. That is why we understand that it is far away. Therefore, if, to the bad faith of the municipality and against the municipalism of Mrs Montero and Mr Sánchez we add the ignorance of VOX, we understand that our amendment to the whole would bring just enough revenue with a fund of compensation to the municipalities, while at the same time abolishing a tax that generates serious economic damage to the citizens. In the face of this inconsistency, I remind the Socialist Party that a new model of local funding is still pending, which you presumed to do as soon as you arrived at the government and that three years later it continues in its own right. The municipalities have made a great effort over the years and you have responded to that effort by not creating a local reconstruction fund, trying to steal their remnants, by not letting local authorities participate in the European funds to their rightful extent and by discriminating against them according to the political sign that governs them. Correct, rectify, Socialist Party and Communist Party gentlemen, accept our proposals because, if not, they will leave the more than 8,000 municipalities in Spain and, therefore, the Spanish as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u9	Thank you very much, Mr González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already shown our position on the validation of this decree-law. We said that we were in favour of validation even though we found that it had many but many issues to improve, above all technically, but that it would be left for partial amendments. Well, these amendments to the whole that VOX and PP are presenting to us today with alternative text, in fact it is almost the same as if they did not have alternative text because what they claim, in substance and in form, is to eliminate the tax, which the Constitutional Court had already done, so an amendment to the whole does not make much sense here. I will only make two comments on VOX's text, in which the tax is abolished and all other taxes are maintained, then it talks about other state compensations... Finally, what it doesn't say is how to compensate the municipalities for what they take away because, logically, if it is taken away from one side it will have to be taken away from another, it will be the State or whoever it is but, after all, it is always talking about how they are going to make up for it, after some place it would have quesalir. And then, on all these legal arguments he makes on the subject of double taxation, which are very respectable, of course, because they are legal studies, this matter is already settled by the Constitutional Court, which has already clearly stated that there is no double taxation on tax when it strictly refers to land, with which I believe it is not a question at this time. And about the People's Party and its amendment to the whole, which also in practice abolishes the tax, I have to say one thing, that actually the participation of the municipalities in the capital gains... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u12	... that are generated by the state in other taxes such as the IRPF, is no nonsense. The truth is that some of the issues raised by the tax that we are discussing today could be eliminated, which could avoid some kind of problem; I raised it at the time, but that required consensus, and we already know that it is almost impossible to reach consensus on these issues at the moment. I will say below some of the stickers that I have seen and that I hope that in the course of partial amendments some can be corrected. First of all, with regard to investments, we already said that investments that someone makes on one floor are not contemplated; I also set an example. I said: someone buys a house to reform it and pays 80 000 euros, another 80 000 is spent on the reform and, in the end, has invested 160 000 euros. If you then have to sell it for 150 000, you get losses, or for the same price, it turns out you have to pay surplus value when you haven't actually had it. This is contrary to the principle of economic capacity, because the law provides that the value of the soil will be applied proportionally to the total at the time of the deposit, but both to the acquisition value and to the sales value, with which the same coefficient is always applied and there will always be profits when someone has made investments, even if they have had losses. Therefore, this is a possible conflict of unconstitutionality, because there is the possibility that someone does not have economic capacity to lose money and yet have to pay. Another issue that, of course, is technically fatal to me, not to say another word, is the issue of coefficients. The coefficients, in the first place, start with jumps. We have always said that leaps for years, in the end, damaging inconsistencies and tremendous injustices, because a person, for one day, can pay 40% more taxes. And here's the example: if someone sells a house they bought 18 or 19 years ago, the difference of one day-between 18 or 19 years - supposes that a coefficient of 0.26 or 0.36 is applied; that is, if one day is delayed, it pays 40% more. Then, in the ride up and down that they have done with respect to all the coefficients for twenty years there is one thing I don't understand, because the purchases from the years 2015 to 2008, which is supposed to be when the crisis came, have much lower coefficients when it is supposed that the floors were much cheaper, with which they will have to explain to me. But there's a year-on-year jump of 10%. That makes no sense, first, because it is going to create confusion, and, second, because it is much easier to make a linear formula, even if it does not strictly follow the waves of the market. Then, of course, the law says that these coefficients must be updated year by year, with which, look, the municipalities can correct it, but, as it is not based on the quota, they have very few possibilities. Then this, of course, has nowhere to go. They have the possibility of changing the cadastral value, but very low. And then there is the big difference between the areas other than the municipalities, because there are areas where prices have risen a lot and others where they have sunk, and this law will force the municipalities to correct at all sites every year the tax formulas in order to be able to correct it, because the cadastral value can also correct it, but in a limited way. All this really gets to be very technical. And this may not be the required place, but I would say that it would be very good if, with regard to the possibilities of the bonuses, there was one for the usual housing when someone sold one house and bought another in the same municipality and remained registered. That bonus does not exist and it would be very good if it were included and not like others. We have the possibility of correcting these inconsistencies or injustices. And finally, the constant repetition that these operations are speculative and that we must avoid it, that we have to tax more at least one year, is a nonsense because, first of all, it is criminalizing everyone who buys and sells and, secondly, I do not know if it is more speculative the one who sells at two years than the one who sells at six months because he has inherited it. I mean, as you've sold it in a year it's a speculator and you have to punish it. Well, you can't put everyone in the same bag, profits or losses and how people act are very relative issues and really shouldn't be in a law focused on these principles.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u13	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u14	I'm done. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor... [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Denials]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we in Citizens have been denouncing the unconstitutionality of the surplus-value tax; the alternation of bipartisanism in the government has done nothing to solve this issue and the Constitutional Court has ended up with us. He pointed out the unconstitutionality of a tax that required, even if there was no manifestation of economic capacity - i.e. that there was a benefit in a transfer of a property - that it should be taxed or that there would be a greater benefit that could be obtained. This is problematic, since it puts the work of thousands of municipalities at risk and is the result of the desire of both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which, instead of solving the real problems of the citizens, are dedicated to dividing - as we have seen - the institutions of the State. [[Rumors]] It is really an express reform that was carried out through the Royal Decree 26/2021, where more than fixing the situation originated by the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the situation of insecurity for citizens and local administrations that has been dragging away since 2017. It must be said that the legal tool used is a royal decree-law, of very dubious validity to determine fundamental aspects of a tribute. And the content of the regulation itself, which allows us to continue to tax on non-produced profits by failing to compute the expenses and taxes borne, the improvements made and the inflation produced, augurs that the current situation of high litigation will be maintained. This is the response of citizens to an unfair tax and the result of the government's failure to act before the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which must be remembered that they have been happening for several years since 2017. [[The Rumors Continue]] Today, the People's Party seems to have become aware that it did not do well. This royal decree-law, which is now being processed as a bill, also does not contain measures that allow the municipalities to deal with the returns to be made by way of the cessation or suspension of such a tribute from the date of the judgment. Therefore, we believe that it is a real decree-law that was short, as always happens. The only thing this Government wanted to do was to put on a fast and running patch, missing a clearly important opportunity to solve a problem that we have been dragging, as I said, for many years. I think it should also be remembered that in the pact signed in October 2018 between the government of Pedro Sánchez and the United States We can light up a General State Budgets for the year 2019 it was established - in its point 9.4- the amendment of the Law on Local Finances and the creation of a fund for the municipalities from the General State Budgets to assume this situation. However, such a law reform agreement and the creation of this fund had never reflected in that draft State budgets. The consequences of the Constitutional Court's ruling and the return of the amounts unduly collected under the terms set out in the judgment create uncertainty and financial complications. Some municipalities will be able to overcome them, but many others do not have financial support from the Government and will have many difficulties in maintaining planned services and investments. A real solution must be given to the situation generated by the maintenance by previous governments of this tax figure, which is totally in conflict with the principles of our Constitution. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u17	Mrs. Martinez, I'm sorry to interrupt. I'll be quiet again, please. There's a constant rumor. [[Pause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u18	The report of the committee of experts for the revision of the local funding model, drawn up in 2017, concluded the existence of a tax competition on the transmission of real estate, which leads to a double taxation situation and even sometimes even triple. In view of this situation, the abolition of surplus value as a way of complying with the judgment and giving consistency and integrity to the tax system was proposed, establishing a share of local entities in taxes that tax the profits of the transfer of real estate, such as the IRPF or corporate tax. It is this formula that would really avoid the current situation, which in practice places families and businesses under double taxation for the transfer of real estate, without entailing a reduction in resources for local administrations. It would also lead to an improvement in the management and the fight against tax fraud, leaving the management, inspection and collection of these taxes to the Tax Agency and the outside finances. There are clear indications that this would be the best solution. From Citizens we propose, as we have always said, the abolition of this tax on the increase of the value of land of urban nature, known as surplus-value tax, and the increase of the participation of local entities in the collection of taxes that tax the surplus-values of real estate. This would involve tax reform, such as the IRPF or company reform, to adapt them to the new solution. Today we are discussing two amendments in their entirety, one of VOX, which is more aimed at what we are defending, which seeks the real and total repeal of this surplus-value tax, and to generate other compensation mechanisms so that the municipalities can have that economic base that is undermined by the abolition of surplus-value, and the other amendment, that of the PP, which continues to maintain some measures that would continue with that multi-imposition. We are therefore closer to supporting the amendment to the whole of the VOX Group. We also believe that the Socialist and United Party We can - this government - have missed a very important opportunity to have changed this issue before the last instance of the Constitutional Court arrived. But, as they usually do, they always leave everything for the last hour to be able to sell it as a salvation, when this royal decree really does not solve the real problem of surplus value. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against the two proposals and we are going to try to argue this, and we are going to do some further thinking. With regard to the VOX proposal, you are asking for the tax to be abolished and that is it. The proposal which they make, which I will then analyse - among us, a bit populist - they make from the rostrum. [[Denials by Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] In any case, Mrs. Cañizares, I would recommend that you be a little narrow. You had arguments to be able to substantiate your position. When you say from this rostrum that the municipalities have had no interest in reforming this tax or obtaining a new local funding system, you lack the truth, you completely lack the truth, and I tell you in the first person. You say you can't create a tax through a royal decree-law. Let us be strict, that we are in the Congress of Deputies, a tax is not created through a royal decree-law. A Royal Decree-Law amends a tax that is already created, a part of the taxable act and the determination of the taxable basis. A new tax is not created. And with regard to the proposal that came from: I take charge of the tax, I did not remember that this generates a hole of 25 billion to the municipalities and I come here to say that we will make a fund. How are we going to make this fund? And here comes the lopopulist of the proposal: let's eliminate... And do you know what the gentlemen of VOX are going to eliminate? The high offices and the eventual ones. Set an example, start, give up all eventuals to which you are entitled. You have the right to some eventualities in this House. Have you given up? No, no, And if they rule, are they going to give up the CEOs? Are you going to give up the secretaries? Are you going to give up the counselors? We'll see about that. You say that you would eliminate subsidies from political parties. Give an example. Have you given up subsidies to political parties? They have not renounced subsidies to political parties. [[Applauds]] Don't be populist; do politics, but don't make populism. As for the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group - which seems almost more consistent to me than that of the People's Group, because the People's Group says it does not eliminate it, but almost eliminates it - it is a proposal that I am surprised that Mr González Terol, who has been mayor and really knows the reality of local finances, is doing so. They propose an exemption from a direct tax which imposes the mere exercise of an economic activity identical to the exemption from a direct tax which imposes the increase in value on land of an urban nature. It doesn't make any sense at all. It has no technical meaning, it has no political meaning; indeed, it is a very serious mistake. That the Socialist Party has not been diligent with this tax? Sure; we can agree, but it is that the People's Group was not diligent with this tax either. In May 2017 there was the first ruling of the Constitutional Court and they say - the People's Group - that they have already submitted a bill. It's just that this isn't a bill, it's that when you're declared unconstitutional, you have to react immediately. Therefore, the Socialist Party was not diligent, but the People's Party was not diligent at all. In addition to the ad hoc reforms and this reform, what is simply intended at the moment is to enforce, among other things, the General Tax Act, which in its article 50 states that the general system of determining the taxable base is the direct method and that systems of determining the taxable base may be used, as they are used in this tax, but always on a voluntary basis. That's what's being regularized. Another thing is that this is going to lead to a decrease in the revenue of the municipalities around 35% and that too we will have to solve in the parliamentary process. But let's think about it. One, who began to be a veteran in these courts three weeks ago, made ten years ago that he conducted his first parliamentary inquiry in the courts, at that time in the Senate. And the first parliamentary inquiry I made, on that occasion to Minister Montoro, was in relation to the system of financing local corporations and the need to introduce a reform of the Local Finance Act. At that time, we presented a motion resulting from an inquiry that was negotiated with the Government at that time so that the local funding system could be reformed by the end of 2012. Did this happen? No, no, Ten years have passed, different finance ministers, different governments, and the local finance system continues to be both obsolete and deficient; therefore, what we have to do is to proceed with the reform in a definitive way, since here I would like to give a message to the majority group and to the groups of the Government: opportunities cannot be missed. At the moment there will be a sufficient parliamentary majority to deal with a reform of local finances that is not linked to the reform of autonomous financing, which is also necessary. Do it, be brave, because if you do not do it you can do it those who are presenting an amendment to the whole today, and you see what you are proposing from the amendment to the whole. And this is also a message for Catalan groups. The Catalan groups cannot profile themselves in the face of a reform of the local finance system and, above all, in the face of a reform of the autonomous finance system. If we profile ourselves, if we let the opportunity pass and no such reform is made, the reform will be done by VOX and the People's Party when they have a majority in these chambers, and I assure you that for Catalonia and for the Spanish state as a whole this reform will be terrible. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u22	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. We are witnessing an attempt by the People's Party and VOX to destroy the government, and on this occasion they are doing so by bringing to the plenary an amendment to the whole debate known as the surplus-value tax. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you again demonstrate hypocrisy within the reach of a few. The first judgement on this subject took place in May 2017. Who then ruled? Exactly, you guys. And what did they do? Nothing. As hypocritical is his proposal, because what we are asked in practice is to abolish the tax, but, in turn, that the municipalities be compensated on a permanent basis, and this cannot be. It is also true that the present Government has acted late and wrong: it has been more than three years and until it has reached the limit with a second sentence they have done nothing. Our diagnosis is therefore clear: we have come here in the face of the inactivity of the successive governments of the Spanish State and, as such, it must be the government of the State that guarantees the economic sufficiency of the municipalities. That is why we again urge the Government to create an extraordinary fund from the General State Budgets of EUR 1.5 million to compensate for the loss of revenue that the new method of calculating capital gains tax entails. Due to the current wording, there are two methods of calculation that the taxpayer can choose according to the most beneficial. This extraordinary fund would alleviate those transmissions made during the fifteen days of transition in which tax could not legally be imposed and taxed on taxpayers, but also those previous transmissions that were pending liquidation and could not, and, on the other hand, on the basis of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, those that had not acquired a firm character and would have to be returned to the taxpayers. And secondly, as we also said in the validation of the Royal Decree-Law, create a permanent compensation fund in favour of the municipalities for the likely reduction of revenues that will generate the new method of calculating the tax base and thus guarantee the principle of financial adequacy of the municipalities. We're not talking about any tax figure at all. By reviewing the settlement data for 2019, Catalan municipalities entered €500 million for this tax. Moreover, for many municipalities it was 10% of the current revenue collection in the municipal budget, representing the second tax on collection, only behind the IBI. In Esquerra Republicana we will continue to work so that the municipalities, the administration closest to the citizenry, can have sufficient resources to provide quality basic services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u24	Good morning. Thank you, President. I am not going to go into very technical matters in my speech because this debate has already taken place at the appropriate time of the validation of the decree and because everything that could be said about the supposed proposal that has been presented to us here today has been said by Mr Ramos, above, and Mr Bel, more specifically. Moreover, the proposals presented today by VOX lack rigour. VOX says it's squared accounts, but this isn't true because it just doesn't square VOX. You may have seen that even the intervener for that party has allowed herself to joke in her speech, because for them the municipalities, the resources of the municipalities and our welfare state is this, a joke. I hope, gentlemen, that if you have had the opportunity to buy a flat, a house, an apartment, you have had that feeling of being depriving the rest of humanity of a piece of land, of a piece of the planet. The planet is all and this small part of the inhabitants we take from it - from the planet - and therefore we exclude the others what we are doing is turning the home of people into private soil, and the home of people should not be built on private soil, but on community, solidarity and persistent foundations. The land, gentlemen - remember - is not of the one who owns it, but of the one who works it. The buildings are not built for speculation, but for building homes for people. In this regard, we welcome the fact that this bill engraves transactions within a period of less than one year, as we all know they are the most speculative. It hurts me that the stones that have built a home by a pallet, the masons, plumbers, electricians and other trades that build in the world with their hands are the object of speculation, today I buy you and tomorrow I sell you. Where is the real value of life? I'm really disappointed with the right side of this country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u26	There are many people who vote on the right because they are afraid of progress, because you tell them lies, because you use words that sound good to deceive. These who so much like to speak deregimemenes and who define themselves as monarchics, as defenders of the monarchic regime, who add up two plus two and see where the expenditure can begin to be cut, but the resources of the municipalities and the welfare state do not skew. They're not being serious, and this isn't right. This reform of the municipal surplus, of course, can be improved and of course the fiscal system of this country can also be improved. Do you know that there are people who charge 1000 euros a month and who have to pay 1500 euros in their IRPF declaration, and since, obviously, you cannot afford to pay what is due to the Treasury, then there are the corresponding fines that can be up to 6000 euros? This is not decent, gentlemen. We need a serious debate on taxation and we also need a serious debate on the resources of the municipalities, but you, with this amendment as a whole, are not entering into a serious debate, what you are making is cheating, taking money for what is most important, which is what the councillors, the technicians and the techniques and the workers of the municipalities do. If this bill does not go forward - the draft that you are presenting today with a replacement amendment, but which is basically all - the municipalities will not be able to raise through this tax the money they need to help their inhabitants to exercise the right to employment, to create cities free of pollution, and to have cities and villages that are cohesive. It's a irresponsibility plus the one you're perpetrating here today. They give them to you as municipalists, but what is it to you to be municipalists? The Montoro Law? Remove competencies from the municipalities? Take away their resources? They may have councillors or former councillors among their ranks, but I'm really glad they're no longer in office. Have you dealt with people who sleep on the street, who sleep in the car, who can't go to a job interview because they don't have or believe they don't have the aesthetics that we have imposedhoy in this society? This is what the municipalities are dedicated to, and by taking away their resources this is not going to be possible. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u28	If they really wanted to contribute to municipalism and to normal people having a fair life, they would not present this amendment, but their municipalism, I insist, is that of the Montoro Law, that of removing resources and competences from the city hall, municipalism, and overthrowing this bill so that the municipalities are left without sources of funding. We believe that this decree is better, of course. That is why we voted in favour of the decree and also in favour of its processing as a draft law, and we have already worked, together with the municipal forces, on amendments that we are going to present in the timely submission process and that will improve the content of this decree. I encourage you to return to the path of responsibility and do the same. Be constructive and do not contribute to populist and misleading debates. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote against the amendments that we are debating today as a whole, some amendments, as they have found to be denialist, unfounded and populist. They are negators, because the amendment of VOX purports to deny the validity of the so-called surplus-value tax, whose nature has not been questioned by the Constitutional Court. What has invalidated is the method of calculation, requesting legislative changes to ensure that tax is not taxed when it can be shown that there has been no real surplus value or that it is less than the tax to be paid. Therefore, the survival of a tax justified by Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution cannot be called into question. It is a municipal and powerful tribute, and the municipalities that collect it consider it necessary to participate in the capital gains generated by their urban action. In other words, these municipalities aim to reap the benefits generated by the dynamism in the real estate market, in the improvement of their municipality and in the improvement of the well-being of their inhabitants. It is a right that is constitutionally recognized to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we are not talking about a new tax, but about adapting it to the instructions of the Constitutional Court, and the amendments we are debating do not meet this objective. VOX intends to go further, calling for the elimination of a tax that is implemented in 99% of the municipalities with more than 20 000 inhabitants, a consolidated tax, which is viable. To ask for their elimination and also to do so through amendment to the whole is a irresponsibility for the negative consequences that these municipalities would generate. The truth is that we are no stranger to VOX, far from the municipal reality, more concerned to audit than to manage, more motivated to delegitimize the noble political and democratic action than to honestly defend the taxpayer. In reality, the attitude of the People's Party is more worrying. Mr Terol, today you have proved to be very complex, letting yourself be carried away by the far right. [[Rumors]] Yes, sir. It is true that they incorporate an exemption, but an exemption that affects a majority of taxpayers with which de facto cancels the viability of the tax. Moreover, it lacks tax justice, as you well know, because it exempts tax according to the legal personality of the taxable person, and this has no relation whatsoever to the capital increase taxed by the tax. Finally, you know perfectly well that your proposal is populist, because indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are you going to tell your mayors to give up most of what they are collecting for this tax? Really? [[applause]] Are you going to tell the mayor of Madrid, that he collects more than 500 million, that he does not collect them? Or rather, we all know that it is a powerful tax, so if it bothers you so much, you don't have to go to the Constitutional Court, just don't apply it. [[Applauds]] If Mr. Almeida applies it, what is it? Aren't you ashamed to apply the tax? Is this it? They're really populists. There is no better way to limit the capacity of the municipalities than to leave them without resources, and that seems to be what you really want to do. The People's Party in Government has already tried to turn the municipalities into administrative merasunities, stealing powers from them, and now, in order to continue its strategy, it seems that what they are trying to do is to reduce their own funding. They started questioning the IAE, now the surplus value, and then, what's it going to be? The IBI? With one hand they limit the possibility of obtaining real and immediate resources and with the other they promise an unworkable compensation. Sometimes they say it's through a fund - before they said no, now they say yes - and other times they say that through participation in state taxes, taxes that day and day also ask us to lower. So, what are we left with? With what resources do they intend to compensate them? They also say they want to do it by reducing superfluous spending. I tell you that with what you have said you do not make up for everything that the municipalities collect. I'll tell you what. But what's more, the People's Party denies its own past, yes, sir, and presents an amendment to the whole of what you are telling me. What you have proposed is not that. What credibility do they have? None. They have no consistency, Mr Terol. They were not able to solve the tax problem diligently at the time, despite our support, a support that is never reciprocal. Our Government has now been diligent and has provided solutions. Look, since the 2018 change of government, the People's Party has broken all kinds of consensus. While the Socialists have been and will always be on the side of the solutions, you have always been trying to boycott the government, and I am against the actual decree-law and your amendment to the whole is proof of that. [[Applauds]] They recklessly deny the extraordinary and urgent need for reform approved by the Government, when they know that if this had not been approved, it would have created insecurity for the municipalities and, in addition, it would have created many problems in their budgets. Therefore, those who abandon the municipalities are the People's Party; they abandoned them by ruling and now abandon them in opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have time to analyse our tax system as a whole and to move forward with a new funding model, but now stop boycotting, which actually seems to be what they want with the amendments as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government has demonstrated and continues to demonstrate its municipalist vocation. It is resolving inherited problems and transferring sufficient resources for the administrations closest to the citizenry to provide the quality services it deserves. They are not words, they are facts: a record financing - 11% more -, 496 million to solve the VAT settlement of 2017 and 2 billion for European funds. Undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen, a central government has never supported both local entities and the current one. We will therefore vote against the amendments as a whole. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u32	We conclude with the last item on the agenda, concerning the proposals for the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final vote on the draft law on the creation and growth of enterprises, the draft law amending Law 38/2015 of 29 September 2015 on the railway sector, and the draft law on urgent measures to promote the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the recovery, transformation and resilience plan. These proposals will be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of this meeting, which is just now. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Let's start with the vote. No-law propositions. A non-legislative proposal by the VOX parliamentary group to suspend the issuing or granting of visas for entry into Europe to all citizens of countries issuing illegal immigration such as Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Mauritania, as long as these countries do not readmit to their borders all illegal immigrants returned by Spain. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 8 telematics votes, 335; in favour, 50 plus 1 telematics vote, 51; against, 276 plus 7 telematics votes, 283; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u34	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament may, in common, in common, on taxation. [[File number 162/000931]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u35	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on taxation. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván and Mr Baldoví Roda, the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group and the Mixed Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 8 telematics votes, 335; 49 plus 3 telematics votes, 52; 273 plus 5 telematics votes, 278; abstentions 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u36	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u37	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the policies of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration in relation to self-employed workers. Voted in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 8 telematics votes, 335; 149 plus 2 telematics votes, 151; 173 plus 6 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u38	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u39	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the reasons why the Government has no longer defined a fiscal consolidation plan for our country that brings credibility... [[Mr Bustamante Martín, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, enters the Chamber and sits in his seat.-Protests.-Several Members, pointing to Mr Bustamante Martín: President! President!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. ...and certainty in sustainability... [[Protests Continue]] Quiet, please. ...of our system in the face of the increase in our level of debt and structural deficit, on the next withdrawal of stimuli... [[Mr Bustamante Martín leaves his seat and stands in the upper part of the Chamber.-Applause.-Pause]] Quiet, please. I will start again the statement of the title of the motion. Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the reasons why the Government has no longer defined a fiscal consolidation plan for our country that brings credibility and certainty...... [[Mr Quevedo Iturbe, of the Mixed Group, enters the Chamber and occupies his seat.-Protests]] in sustainability...... [[protests]] of our system in the face of an increase in our level of debt and structural deficit, on the forthcoming withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus by the European Central Bank and the...... [[protests]] on the expected reactivation of the European Stability Pact next year. [[Protests Continue]] Quiet, please. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, access to the Chamber is possible between voting and voting. [[Several Members: No!]] It has always been so, always, in forty years of democracy. [[protests]] [[Mr Bustamante Martín again takes up Swallow]] And I'm asking you to be quiet, please. This motion is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 plus 8 telematics votes, 336; 147 plus 2 telematics votes, 149; 175 plus 6 telematics votes, 181; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u40	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u41	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government through the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to end depopulation in Spain. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 8 telematics votes, 337; 51 plus 1 telematics vote, 52; 277 plus 7 telematics votes, 284; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u42	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u43	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law adapting the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act to the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court on the definition of increasing the value of urban land, submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 8 telematics votes, 337; 58 plus 1 telematics vote, 59; 183 plus 6 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 88 plus 1 telematics vote, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u44	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law adapting the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act to the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court on the definition of increasing the value of urban land, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 8 telematics votes, 337; 89 plus 1 telematics vote, 90; 231 plus 7 telematics votes, 238; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u45	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u46	Voting of the request for acknowledgment by the plenary of the Chamber of the deliberation and final vote of the aforementioned bill, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 8 telematics votes, 337; 324 plus 7 telematics votes, 331; 5 plus 1 telematics vote, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u47	Consequently, the bill is being brought before the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u48	Voting of applications for avocado by the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final vote of the draft law on the creation and growth of enterprises, submitted by the Parliamentary Groups Citizens, Plural and Republican. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 8 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 324 plus 8 telematics votes, 332; against, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u49	Consequently, the bill is being brought before the plenary. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 38/2015 OF 29 SEPTEMBER OF THE RAILWAY SECTOR. [[File number 121/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u50	Voting of the request for the plenary of the House to act on the deliberation and final vote on the bill amending Law 38/2015 of 29 September 2015 on the Railway Sector, submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 8 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 315 plus 8 telematics votes, 323; against, 13; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u51	Consequently, the bill is being brought before the plenary. - DRAFT EMERGENCY MEASURES LAW FOR IMPULSION THE BUILDING REHABILITATION ACTIVITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE RECOVERY, TRANSFORMATION AND RESILENCE PLAN [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 19/2021 OF 5 OCTOBER]] [[Expiry number 121/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u52	Voting of the request for the House Plenary's approval of the deliberation and final vote of the bill of urgent measures to promote the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, presented by the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[from Royal Decree-Law 19/2021 of 5 October]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 329 votes, plus 7 telematics votes, 336; in favour, 324 plus 7 telematics votes, 331; against, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-17-CD220217.u53	Consequently, the bill is being brought before the plenary. Very good morning. The meeting rose. It was ten and thirty-five minutes in the morning.
